TOWN OF HAMILTON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-21 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 08-2023, passed 11-6-23
State legislation current through 2023 A.L.S. Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 2000-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF HAMILTON, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of
Hamilton are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the Town of Hamilton to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of Hamilton has authorized a general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of Hamilton of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF HAMILTON, INDIANA:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Hamilton as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Hamilton."
   Section 2.   Such Code of ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the following Titles:
   TITLE I:   GENERAL PROVISIONS
                  Chapter 10.   General Provisions
                  Chapter 11.   Town Standards
   TITLE III:   ADMINISTRATION
                  Chapter 30.   Town Council
                     Appendix:   Amending Ordinance
                  Chapter 31.   Town Officials
                  Chapter 32.   Departments, Commissions and Authorities
                  Chapter 33.   Personnel Policy
                  Chapter 34.   Finance; Funds
         TITLE V:   PUBLIC WORKS
                  Chapter 50.   Garbage
                  Chapter 51.   Water and Sewers
         TITLE VII:   TRAFFIC CODE
                  Chapter 70.   Traffic Regulations
                  Chapter 71.   Parking Regulations
                  Chapter 72.   Traffic Schedules
                  Chapter 73.   Parking Schedules
         TITLE IX:   GENERAL REGULATIONS
                  Chapter 90.   Animals
                  Chapter 91.   Parks and Recreation
                  Chapter 92.   Fair Housing
                  Chapter 93.   Nuisances
                  Chapter 94.   Streets and Sidewalks
         TITLE XI:   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
                  Chapter 110. General Licensing
                  Chapter 111. Peddlers
                  Chapter 112. Amusements
         TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
                  Chapter 130. General Offenses
         TITLE XV:   LAND USAGE
                  Chapter 150. Building Regulations
                  Chapter 151. Flood Hazard Prevention
                  Chapter 152. Subdivision Control
                     Appendix:   Final Plat Certificates
                  Chapter 153. Zoning
                  Chapter 154. Planning
         TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
                  I.   Annexations
                  II.   Franchises
                  III.   Zoning Map Changes
         PARALLEL REFERENCES
            References to Indiana Code
            References to 1988 Code
            References to Resolutions
            References to Ordinances
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town
of Hamilton is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana, on
this 7th day of February, 2000.
Brent Shull /s/                   Randall E. Hile /s/
Brent Shull, President                           Randall E. Hile
Richard I. Bacon /s/                   Thomas M. Poynter /s/
Richard I. Bacon                              Thomas M. Poynter
Keith A. Platter II /s/
Keith A. Platter II
ATTEST:
Patricia A. Ackerman /s/
Patricia A. Ackerman Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 2001 -01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF HAMILTON, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Hamilton, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Hamilton; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the State of Indiana code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton to
accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the
State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton,
Steuben County, Indiana, as follows:
   Section 1.   That the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Hamilton as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton, and the
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Hamilton is hereby authorized and ordered to
insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept in the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF HAMILTON, STEUBEN
COUNTY, INDIANA, AT THEIR REGULAR MEETING ON THE 2ND DAY OF JANUARY, 2001.
Brent L. Shull /s/             Randall E. Hile /s/  
Brent L. Shull, President                   Randall E. Hile, Vice-President
Richard I. Bacon Jr. /s/             Keith A. Platter II /s/
Richard I. Bacon Jr., Councilman             Keith A. Platter II, Councilman
Thomas M. Poynter /s/
Thomas M. Poynter, Councilman
ATTEST:
Patricia A. Ackerman /s/
Patricia A. Ackerman, Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 2002-02
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF HAMILTON, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2001 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Hamilton, Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Hamilton Town Council to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Town of Hamilton, Indiana and for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the Town of Hamilton that this
ordinance take effect at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE HAMILTON TOWN COUNCIL OF HAMILTON,
INDIANA:
   Section 1.   That the 2001 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Hamilton, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Hamilton Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of
Hamilton, Indiana , is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people in this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton, Steuben County,
Indiana, on this 4th day of February, 2002.
                        Town Council of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana
                           By:    /s/
            Brent Shull, President
                                     /s/
   Randall E. Hile, Council Member
                                     /s/
   Richard I. Bacon, Council Member
                                     /s/    Robert C. Livensparger, Council
Member
                                     /s/    Keith A. Platter, II, Council
Member
ATTEST:
/s/
Patricia A. Ackermann
Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented to the President of the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton this
4th day of February, 2002, at 7:00 o'clock p.m.
                            /s/
   President of Town Council, Hamilton, Indiana
Voting         Aye            Nay 
Brent L. Shull       X             ___
Randall E. Hile       X             ___
Richard I. Bacon       X             ___
Robert C. Livensparger    X             ___
Keith A. Platter, II       X             ___
ORDINANCE NO. 2004-07
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF HAMILTON, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Hamilton, Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Hamilton Town Council to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Town of Hamilton, Indiana and for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the Town of Hamilton that this
ordinance take effect at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE HAMILTON TOWN COUNCIL OF HAMILTON,
INDIANA:
   Section 1.   That the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Hamilton, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Hamilton Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of
Hamilton, Indiana, is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people in this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton, Steuben County,
Indiana, on this 5th day of April, 2004.
                        Town Council of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana
                  By:    /s/             Randall E. Hile, President
             /s/
   Keith A. Platter II, Vice-President
                         /s/    Richard I Bacon, Council Member
                         /s/    Robert C. Livensparger, Council Member
                         /s/     David Richardson, Council Member
ATTEST:
/s/
Karen R. Grieser
Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented to the President of the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton this
5th day of April, 2004, at 7:00 o'clock p.m.
    /s/
   Karen R. Grieser, Clerk-Treasurer
                         /s/
   President of Town Council, Hamilton, Indiana
Voting         Aye            Nay 
Randall E. Hile       X                  
Richard I. Bacon       X                  
Robert C. Livensparger    X                           
Keith A. Platter, II       X                           
David Richardson       X             ___
ORDINANCE NO. 2005-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF HAMILTON, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2004 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Hamilton, Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Town of Hamilton, Indiana and for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the Town of Hamilton that this
ordinance take effect at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE HAMILTON TOWN COUNCIL OF HAMILTON,
INDIANA:
   Section 1.   That the 2004 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Hamilton, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Hamilton Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of
Hamilton, Indiana, is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people in this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   Section 4.   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and publication as required by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton, Steuben County,
Indiana, on this 7th day of February, 2005.
                     Town Council of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana
                  By:    /s/                      Keith A. Platter II,
President
    /s/
                     Dave Richardson, Vice-President
                      /s/                      Richard E. Hile, Council Member
                      /s/                       Richard I. Bacon, Council
Member
                                                                                                                    Robert
C. Livensparger, Council Member
ATTEST:
/s/
Karen R. Grieser
Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented to the President of the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton this
7th day of February, 2005, at 7:00 o'clock p.m.
                      /s/
                     Karen R. Grieser, Clerk-Treasurer
                      /s/
                     President of Town Council, Hamilton, Indiana
Voting         Aye            Nay 
Randall E. Hile       X                  
Richard I. Bacon       X                  
Robert C. Livensparger                                 
Keith A. Platter, II       X                           
Dave Richardson       X             ___
ORDINANCE NO. 2007-06
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF HAMILTON, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2007 S-7 and 2007 S-8 supplements to the Code of Ordinances of
the Political Subdivision, which supplements contain all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton,
Indiana, as follows:
   Section 1.   That the 2006 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Hamilton, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Hamilton Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of
Hamilton, Indiana, is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people in this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton, Steuben County,
Indiana, at their regular meeting on the 7th day of May, 2007.
                     Town Council of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana
                  By:    /s/                      Randall E. Hile, President
    /s/
                     David E. Richardson, Vice-President
                      /s/                      Richard I. Bacon, Council Member
                      /s/                       Wilford I. Nuttle, Council
Member
                      /s/                      Keith A. Platter II, Council
Member
ATTEST:
/s/
Karen R. Grieser
Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented to the President of the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton this
7th day of May, 2007, at 6:00 o'clock p.m.
                      /s/
                     Karen R. Grieser, Clerk-Treasurer
                      /s/
                     Randall E. Hile
                     President of Town Council, Hamilton, Indiana
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Hamilton shall be
designated as the Code of Hamilton and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing law refer to the new code numbers assigned to that law.
   (G)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (H)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of such persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving such authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK/TREASURER. The Clerk/Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana.
      COUNTY. DeKalb County, or Steuben County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the town.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Hamilton, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then such named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which such duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred. (I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
such section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. Such section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture,
or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see I.C.
5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Town seal
§ 11.01 TOWN SEAL.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the custodian of the town's seal and
affix it to such documents and instruments as required.
   (B)   The town shall use a corporate seal designed as follows: a disk
circular in form on the margin of which shall be the words “Town of Hamilton,
Indiana” and in the center thereof the word “Seal.” ('88 Code, § 1-1-10) (Ord.
passed 4-13-15)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
         
APPENDIX: AMENDING ORDINANCE
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
      
33.   PERSONNEL POLICY
      
34.   FINANCE; FUNDS
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Town legislative body
   
30.02   Legislative districts
   
30.03   President
   
30.04   Quorum and votes to pass
   
30.05   Powers of the Council
   
30.06   Regular and special meetings
   
30.07   Order of business
   
30.08   Filing of documents
   
30.09   Parliamentary procedure
   
30.10   Recording and publishing ordinances
   
30.11   Amending ordinances
   
30.12   Franchise agreements
   
Appendix: Amending Ordinance
§ 30.01 TOWN LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   (A)   The Town Council is the town legislative body.
   (B)   The Town Council consists of five members whose terms of office,
except as may be otherwise directed by Ordinance No. 94-4 of the town, are four
years, beginning at noon on January 1 after election and continuing until
successors are elected and qualified.
   (C)   The Town Council shall provide by ordinance that its members are
elected at-large by the voters of the whole town.
('88 Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 90-5, passed 7-2-90; Am. Ord. 94-4, passed - -94)
   (D)   The Town Council shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of its own
members. ('88 Code, § 3-1-11)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see I.C. 36-5-3-2
   Town Council, see I.C. 36-5-2-2
§ 30.02 LEGISLATIVE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   There shall be four legislative districts as described below (and as
shown on the map attached to Ord. 2012-8) in addition thereto there shall be
one councilperson elected at large which results in a five member Town Council.
   (B)   Legislative District No. 1 shall be bounded as follows:
      (1)   That portion of Legislative District No. 1 North of the DeKalb -
Steuben County line is bounded on the north by E. Bellefontaine Road/State Road
1, bounded on the west by State Road 427/South Wayne Street, bounded on the
south by the DeKalb - Steuben County line and bounded on the east by the
corporate limits of the town.
      (2)   That portion of Legislative District No. 1 south of the DeKalb -
Steuben County line is bounded on the north by the DeKalb - Steuben County
line, bounded on the west by the corporate limits of the town, bounded on the
south by the corporate limits of the town, and bounded on the east and
northeast by the corporate limits of the town/County Road 1.
   (C)   Legislative District No. 2 shall be bounded as follows:
      (1)   That portion of Legislative District No. 2 south of E.
Bellefontaine Road is bounded on the north by E. Bellefontaine Road, bounded on
the west by the corporate limits of the town, bounded on the south by the
DeKalb - Steuben County line, and bounded on the east by State Road 427/South
Wayne Street.
      (2)   That portion of Legislative District No. 2 north of E.
Bellefontaine Road is composed of two areas bounded as follows:
         (a)   Beginning at the intersection of E. Bellefontaine Road and Lane
219, thence northeasterly upon Lane 219 to its intersection with Lane 221 A,
thence northerly along Lane 221A and Lane 221 until its intersection with the
western corporate boundaries/County Road 300 E, thence south along County Road
300 E to its intersection with E. Bellefontaine Road.
         (b)   Also, an area bounded on the south by E. Bellefontaine Road/
State Road 1, bounded on the east by the corporate limits, bounded on the north
by Fish Creek and bounded on the west by State Road 427/South Wayne Street.
   (D)   Legislative District No. 3 shall be bounded as follows: All that area
within the town corporate limits generally located on the east side of Hamilton
Lake north of Fish Creek, this area also includes what is commonly known as the
Stonestreet Addition.
   (E)   Legislative District No. 4 shall be bounded as follows:
      (1)   All that area within the town corporate limits bounded on the east
by that portion of State Road 427/South Wayne Street between the Fish Creek
Trail Spillway and E. Bellefontaine Road, and bounded on the south by E.
Bellefontaine Road, excepting therefrom the area described as follows:
      (2)   Beginning at the intersection of E. Bellefontaine Road and Lane
219, thence northeasterly upon Lane 219 to its intersection with Lane 221 A,
thence northerly along Lane 221A and Lane 221 until its intersection with the
western corporate boundaries/County Road 300 E, thence south along County Road
300 E to its intersection with E. Bellefontaine Road and from thence east on E.
Bellefontaine Road to its intersection with 219, which exception is part of
Legislative District No. 2.
   (F)   Each Council member, other than the member-at-large, shall reside in
their respective district and the Council member-at-large shall reside within
the corporate limits of the town.
   (G)   All five Town Council members shall be elected at-large by the voters
of the whole town.
('88 Code, § 3-1-2) (Am. Ord. 90-6, passed 7-2-90; Am. Ord. 93-2, passed 3-1-
93; Am. Ord. 2002-11, passed 10-7-02; Am. Ord. 2012-8, passed 12-21-12)
Statutory reference:
   Districts, see I.C. 36-5-1-10.1, 36-5-2-4.1
§ 30.03 PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The Town Council shall select at its first annual meeting one of its
members to be its President for a definite term which may not exceed his or her
term of office.
   (B)   The President is the Town Executive.
('88 Code, § 3-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Selection of President, see I.C. 36-5-2-7
   Town Executive, see I.C. 36-5-2-2
§ 30.04 QUORUM AND VOTES TO PASS.
   (A)   A majority of all elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
   (B)   Passage of ordinances, orders or resolutions shall be governed by
applicable state statutes.
('88 Code, § 3-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see I.C. 36-5-2-9.2
   Voting, see I.C. 36-5-1-9.4
§ 30.05 POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   The Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold, and convey any interest in property, for the use of
the town;
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal; and
   (D)   Exercise all powers that are needed for the effective operation of
local governmental affairs.
('88 Code, § 3-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Powers of legislative body, see I.C. 36-5-2-9
§ 30.06 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall meet in regular session on the first Monday of
each month at 7:00 p.m. Any regular session of the Town Council may be
adjourned later in continued regular session upon a majority vote of the
members-elect of the Council and in conformance with I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.
   (B)   Special sessions of the Council may be held on the call of the
President of the Council or upon the request of two members of the Council.
('88 Code, § 3-1-6) (Am. Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 2008-01, passed
1-7-08)
Statutory reference:
   Indiana Open Door Law, see I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.
§ 30.07 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business to be followed at regular meetings of the Town Council
shall be, and it is established, as follows:
   (A)   Calling of order.
   (B)   Roll call by Clerk.
   (C)   Reading and approval of minutes.
   (D)   Communications from President of Council.
   (E)   Reports from official Boards.
   (F)   Reports from Special Committee.
   (G)   Introduction of general and special ordinances, first reading.
   (H)   Introduction of miscellaneous business.
   (I)   Ordinances on second reading.
   (J)   Ordinances or third reading.
   (K)   Unfinished business.
   (L)   Adjournment.
('88 Code, § 3-1-7) (Ord. passed 4-17-15)
§ 30.08 FILING OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   All ordinances, resolutions, orders, petitions and other papers
calling for the attention or action of the Town Council must be regularly filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer and available for inspection by members of the Town
Council and others, as permitted by law.
   (B)   Ordinances, resolutions, orders, petitions and other papers may be
received, introduced and acted upon at any regular or special meeting of the
Council by the unanimous suspension of the foregoing rule, but then only in
case there are present and voting at least two-thirds of the members elect of
the Council.
   (C)   All ordinances shall be read three times before being adopted, and no
ordinance shall be passed or read three times on the same day in which it is
introduced except upon the unanimous suspension of the foregoing rule, but then
only in the case there are present and voting at least two-thirds of the
members elect of the Council.
   (D)   On the adoption of any ordinance or the passage of any resolution, the
yeas or nays shall be taken and the name and vote of each member duly recorded
in the minutes of the meeting.
   (E)   All ordinances, orders, and resolutions not prepared by the Town
Attorney shall be submitted to the Town Attorney for review at least three
working days before the Council meeting upon which said ordinance, order, or
resolution is to be first acted upon.
('88 Code, § 3-1-8) (Ord. passed 4-12-15; Am. Ord. 2007-05, passed 5-7-07; Am.
Ord. 2010-12, passed 12-6-10)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of ordinances, see I.C. 36-4-6-13 et seq.
§ 30.09 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Any matter not addressed by any rules of procedure which may be adopted by
the Town Council shall be governed by Robert's Rules of Order.
('88 Code, § 3-1-9)
§ 30.10 RECORDING AND PUBLISHING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances, within a reasonable time after their passage, shall be
recorded in a book kept for that purpose by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Any ordinance, order, or resolution which must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect shall follow state statute procedure.
('88 Code, § 3-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Posting and publication of ordinances, see I.C. 36-4-6-14 and 36-5-2-10
   Recording of adopted ordinances, see I.C. 36-4-6-17 and 36-5-2-10.2
§ 30.11 AMENDING ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances which are of a general and permanent nature, and which would
amend the town code, shall be in the form set forth in the appendix following
this chapter.
('88 Code, § 3-1-12)
§ 30.12 FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may enter into written franchise agreements for
companies to serve the town.
   (B)   Such agreements shall be binding on the parties as to granting and
revocation of franchise, rental amounts, safety requirements, inspections,
indemnification, bond requirements, construction and installation requirements,
conditions of public way occupancy, rights reserved to the town, signal quality
requirements for cable rates, annual franchise fees, complaint procedure, and
other related areas.
   (C)   Such agreements, in order to be approved, must be passed by an
appropriate ordinance of the Town Council and shall be kept on file and open
for public inspection during regular business hours in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
('88 Code, § 4-3-1)
Cross-reference:
   For specific franchise agreements, see
T.S.O. II
APPENDIX: AMENDING ORDINANCE
Ordinance No.     (Year, last two digits)
   Chronological number of the ordinance filed that year
   (Short Title)
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF
   THE TOWN OF HAMILTON, INDIANA,
   AMENDING CHAPTER              , SECTION(S)          OF THE
   HAMILTON TOWN CODE BY THE INCLUSION/DELETION OF
   SECTION(S) ENTITLED                                                   
   WHEREAS, (background statements setting forth the purpose or background of
the ordinance)
WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,
   NOW, THEREFOR, BE IT RESOLVED AND ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN
OF HAMILTON, STEUBEN COUNTY, INDIANA, as follows:
   SECTION I. Chapter   , Section(s)    , of the Hamilton Town Code, is/are
hereby amended to read as follows:
   (Set forth the particular language)
   SECTION. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval by the Town Council of Hamilton, Indiana.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council, of the Town of Hamilton, Steuben
County, Indiana, at their regular meeting on the     day of       19         
   Town Council, of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana
   BY:                                                
    President
    Council Member
    Council Member
ATTEST:
                                          
Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented to the President of the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton this
        day of                , 19     , at       
Clerk-Treasurer
Approved by me this                     day
of                                   , 19           at
                                      
President of Town Council, Town of Hamilton
Voting:
Council Member
Council Member
Council Member
('88 Code, § 3-1-12)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Mileage allowance
Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.10   Term of office
   
31.11   Powers and duties
   
31.12   Compensation
   
31.13   Deputies and employees
Town Marshal
   
31.25   Appointment, compensation, tenure
   
31.26   Powers and duties
   
31.27   Deputy marshals
   
31.28   Clothing and equipment allowance
   
31.29   Report fee schedule
Town Manager
   
31.40   Establishment of Town Manager
Cross-reference:
   Town membership dues, see §
34.02
   Zoning Administrator, see §
153.55
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 MILEAGE ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   If it is necessary and expedient that the members of the Town Council,
Clerk-Treasurer, Town Attorney, and any town employees shall use their personal
automobiles/vehicles and carry out the duties of their respective offices, the
town officials shall be repaid for that use of a personal automobile/vehicle.
For the use of the personal automobile/vehicle in the carrying out of official
duties of the town officials, the town officials and employees shall be allowed
the sum per mile for the use of the personal automobile/vehicle as allowed by
the state for state employees or as otherwise set by resolution by the Town
Council.
   (B)   Claims for usage shall be submitted by the official and/or employee on
appropriate claim forms with the Clerk-Treasurer, such claims showing the
purpose for which the personal automobile/vehicle was used, the miles driven,
the date of usage and the total amount claimed. Claims for mileage shall be
filed at least once each month if personal usage has occurred during the
preceding month.
(Ord. 95-2, passed 5-8-95)
TOWN CLERK-TREASURER
§ 31.10 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The position of Town Clerk-Treasurer is an elected position whose term
of office is for four years, beginning at noon on January 1 after his or her
election and continuing until a successor is elected and qualified.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the voters of the whole
town.
('88 Code, § 2-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Election of Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-5-6-4
   Term of office, see I.C. 36-5-6-3
§ 31.11 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions, and
take acknowledgments of instruments as required by law.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council and whenever
the Town Council has an even number of members, the Clerk-Treasurer is an ex-
officio member for the purpose of casting the deciding vote to break a tie.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may perform all duties prescribed by law,
which include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town monies, and pay them out upon order
of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts of all town monies;
      (3)   File monthly reports with the Town Council showing all receipts and
disbursements of the town treasury for the preceding month;
      (4)   Maintain records which are open for inspection by the Town Council;
      (5)   Collect fines resulting from ordinance violations;
      (6)   Issue all licenses; and
      (7)   Attend all Town Council meetings and maintain a recording of its
proceedings.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and Town Fiscal Officer
pursuant to I.C. 36-5-6-2.
('88 Code, § 2-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Duties and powers of Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-5-2-8, 36-5-6-5, 36-5-6-6
§ 31.12 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation for the services of the person holding the office of Clerk-
Treasurer shall be fixed by the Town Council.
('88 Code, § 2-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation for Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-5-3-2
§ 31.13 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may appoint the number of deputies and employees
authorized by the Town Council.
   (B)   Deputies and employees so hired serve at the pleasure of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
('88 Code, § 2-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Clerk-Treasurer to appoint deputies and employees, see I.C. 36-
5-6-7
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 31.25 APPOINTMENT, COMPENSATION, TENURE.
   (A)   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Marshal and shall fix his
compensation.
   (B)   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council and is
subject to the minimum basic training requirements.
('88 Code, § 2-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions concerning Town Marshal, see I.C. 36-5-3-2, 36-5-7-2, 36-
5-7-3
§ 31.26 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer and has the powers of other law
enforcement officers as set forth in I.C. 36-5-7-4, as it may be amended from
time to time.
('88 Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 31.27 DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   The Town Council may authorize the appointment of deputy marshals pursuant
to I.C. 36-5-7-6, as it may be amended from time to time.
('88 Code, § 2-2-3)
Cross-reference:
   Police reserves, see §
32.05
§ 31.28 CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   There is established an annual clothing and equipment allowance for
the purchase of necessary items of clothing, uniforms, arms, and equipment for
use by the Town Marshal, in the amount set by Council in the annual budget.
   (B)   The purchases may be made and the funds dispersed on or after the 15th
day of July each year, so long as this section remains in full force and
effect.
   (C)   Any such items purchased from this fund and account shall be the
permanent property of the town.
('88 Code, § 2-2-4) (Ord. 80-2, passed 10-6-80)
§ 31.29 REPORT FEE SCHEDULE.
   There shall be charged and collected by the town the following fees for the
services rendered:
Accident reports                                            $12
Case reports                                                $5
Photocopy of statements and other documents (per copy/per   $5
page)
Video tapes                                                 $30
Four year hunting and target                                $10/$5 refundable*
Four year personal protection                               $10/$5 refundable*
Lifetime hunting and target (no current license)            $50/$30 refundable*
Lifetime hunting and target (current valid Indiana license) $40/$30 refundable*
Lifetime personal protection (no current license)           $50/$30 refundable*
Life time personal protection (current valid Indiana        $40/$30 refundable*
license)
Duplicate (not provided in law)                             N/A
Retired law enforcement officer (not provided in law; fee   N/A
exempt**)
Retired corrections officer (not provided in law; fee       N/A
exempt**)
Firearms dealer (not provided in law)                       N/A
* A portion of the local fee is refundable if a license is not issued. The
entire state fee is refundable if no license is issued.
** Fee exemption applies only to the initial license application. All duplicate
licenses incur a fee of $20.
 
(Ord. 95-6, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 2018-6, passed 10-1-18)
TOWN MANAGER
§ 31.40 ESTABLISHMENT OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The Town Council may employ a Town Executive to be known as the Town
Manager of the Town of Hamilton. The Town Council shall fix the compensation,
benefits and terms of employment, which employment shall be at the pleasure of
Town Council. The Town Manager shall be the administrative head of the town
government and shall be employed solely with regard to merit and on the basis
of his or her executive and administrative qualifications.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall be subject to a six month probationary period
and shall further be an employee "At Will” as that term is defined under
Indiana law.
   (C)   No member of the Town Council shall, during the time for which he has
been elected, be employed as a Town Manager.
   (D)   The Town Manager need not be a resident of the town at the time of his
or her employment, but may reside outside of the town while in office only with
the approval of the Town Council.
   (E)   That any provisions of I.C. 16-5-5-8 or any provisions of this
subchapter notwithstanding, the Town Manager shall not have or be construed as
having any authority to:
      (1)   Hire or discharge any town employee or officer;
      (2)   Enter into or bind either the town to any contract;
      (3)   Undertake any activity that in the opinion of the Town Manager is
in conflict with or contrary to the best interest of the town without first
seeking the advice and consent of the Town Council; and
      (4)   Present to the Town Council any resolutions or ordinances which
have not first been approved in writing or drafted by the Town Attorney.
   (F)   That the duties and responsibilities conferred upon the Town Manager
shall further be subject to the written job description, written orders or
ordinances of the Town Council issued from time to time concerning the Town
Manager's authorities and responsibilities.
   (G)   The Town Manager shall be given a performance review at the following
intervals:
      (1)   Three months after initial employment date;
      (2)   Six months after initial employment date; and
      (3)   Annually thereafter at the anniversary of the initial employment
date.
   (H)   The position of Town Manager, is a salaried position with management
responsibilities and is not entitled to compensation for overtime.
(Ord. 2003-20, passed 12-22-03)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
Section
   
32.01   Economic Development Commission and Department of Development
   
32.02   Region II-A Development and Regional Planning Commission
   
32.03   Firefighting services
   
32.04   Police reserves
   
32.05   Hamilton Lake Conservancy District II
   
32.06   Hamilton Redevelopment Commission
   
32.07   Port Authority
   
32.08   Recreation Board
Cross-reference:
   Town Board of Zoning Appeals, see §
153.57
   Town membership dues, see §
34.02
   Town Plan Commission, see §
153.56
§ 32.01 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION AND DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The town has insufficient employment opportunities,
insufficient diversification of industry and economic development, and
insufficient abatement and control of pollution, which conditions are harmful
to the health, prosperity, economic stability, and general welfare of this
area, and if not remedied will be detrimental to the development of this area.
The Town Council finds that a need exists for the financing of economic
development and pollution control facilities as authorized by I.C. 36-7-12-
1 through 36-7-12-38, and the creation of a Department of Development under the
control of a commission to be known as the Hamilton Economic Development
Commission.
   (B)   Department and Commission established. A Department of Development is
created as a department of the town, which Department shall be under the
control of the Economic Development Commission, which Commission shall consist
of three members, one to be selected by the President of the Town Council, one
to be nominated by the DeKalb and Steuben County Councils, and one to be
nominated by the Town Council, and each to be appointed by the President of the
Town Council.
   (C)   Organization. The Department of Development and the Economic
Development Commission shall be organized, the members appointed and qualified,
and such Department and Commission shall exercise the functions and have all of
the powers and duties pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq.
('88 Code, § 2-4-1) (Ord. 80-1, passed 4-7-80)
§ 32.02 REGION III-A DEVELOPMENT AND REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The town agrees to have the Region III-A Development and Regional Planning
Commission to be empowered to provide community development technical
assistance to the town upon the town's request and further has the right to act
without a liaison agent or to use other liaison agents.
('88 Code, § 2-4-3) (Res. 82-2, passed 5-3-82)
§ 32.03 FIREFIGHTING SERVICES.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Chief shall be the head of the volunteer
firefighters.
   (B)   The town shall purchase and maintain a fire station structure which
shall be provided for the purpose of protecting the public health, safety,
peace, comfort, convenience, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the
town.
('88 Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 75-1, passed 2-10-75)
   (C)   The town is authorized pursuant to I.C. 36-1-7-1 et seq., as it may be
amended from time to time, to enter into joint agreements for the purchase or
exchange of property and/or services with other communities. ('88 Code, § 2-3-
2)
Statutory reference:
   Volunteer fire companies, see I.C. 36-8-12-1 et seq.
§ 32.04 POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   The town may establish, maintain, and operate a police and law
enforcement system to preserve public peace and order and may provide
facilities and equipment for that system. ('88 Code, § 6-1-2)
   (B)   The town authorizes police reserves who shall be governed by
applicable state law. Each reserve police person shall be compensated an amount
established by ordinance per working weekend, subject to the fact that the
reserve police person will be working at the discretion of and under the
supervision of the Town Marshal and the President of the Town Council, speaking
for and on behalf of the Town Council. ('88 Code, § 2-2-4) (Ord. 80-5, passed
7-7-80)
Cross-reference:
   Town Marshal, see §§
31.25 through
31.29
Statutory reference:
   Authority to preserve public peace and order, see I.C. 36-8-2-2
   Police reserves, see I.C. 36-8-3-20
§ 32.05 HAMILTON LAKE CONSERVANCY DISTRICT II.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 14-33-l et seq., the town hereby
authorizes the filing of a petition with the Steuben County Circuit Court to
establish the Hamilton Lake Conservancy District II for the following purposes:
      (1)   Developing forest, wildlife areas, parks, and recreational
facilities if feasible in connection with beneficial water management; and
      (2)   Operation, maintenance and improvement of:
         (a)   A work or improvement for water-based recreational purposes; or
         (b)   Other work or improvement that could have been built for any
other purpose authorized by I.C. 14-33-1-1.
   (B)   The proposed district shall include land partially inside and
partially outside the corporate limits of the town, as permitted by I.C. 14-33-
2-7.
   (C)   The creation of the Hamilton Lake Conservancy District II is necessary
in order to comply with the purposes stated in division (A) above.
   (D)   The creation of the Hamilton Lake Conservancy District II will be made
possible in part through the assistance of state monies and annual assessments
upon the landowners who benefit from the project.
   (E)   The local portion of construction costs and the expenses of
maintenance and operation of the works of improvement necessary to accomplish
any and all of the purposes will be paid by annual assessments on each parcel
of land located within the Hamilton Lake Conservancy District II territory.
(Ord. 2003-07, passed 6-2-03)
§ 32.06 HAMILTON REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-14 et
seq., as that statute exists now and as may be amended from time to time, the
Department of Redevelopment controlled by a board of five members to be known
as the “Hamilton Redevelopment Commission.”
   (B)   The five commissioners for the Hamilton Redevelopment Commission shall
be appointed as follows:
      (1)   Three shall be appointed by the Town Council President.
      (2)   Two shall be appointed by the Town Council.
      (3)   Each commissioner appointed pursuant to divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2)
of this section shall serve for a term of one year.
      (4)   The municipal executive [Town Council President] shall also appoint
an individual to serve as a non-voting advisor to the Redevelopment Commission
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-14-6.1, as amended from time to time.
      (5)   The Hamilton Redevelopment Commission shall have the rights,
privileges, powers, and duties as provided in I.C. 36-7-14 et seq., as that
statute exists now and as may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   All the territory within the corporate boundaries of the Town of
Hamilton constitutes a tax district for the purpose of levying and collection
for a special benefit tax for redevelopment use as provided in I.C. 36-7-14 et
seq.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 7-11-05; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 4-19-10)
§ 32.07 PORT AUTHORITY.
   The town shall participate in and become a member of the Steuben County Port
Authority and hereby endorses and adopts by reference Steuben County Resolution
No. 03-2010-01 as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set forth
herein.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-19-10)
§ 32.08 RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Recreation Board consisting of five
resident freeholders.
   (B)   The five members of the Recreation Board shall be appointed by the
Town Council with one member being a member of the governing body of the
Hamilton Community School Corporation.
   (C)   No member of the Recreation Board may also be a member of the Town
Council.
   (D)   All members appointed to the Recreation Board must be qualified by an
interest in and knowledge of the social and educational values of recreation.
All members shall be compensated for their service according to the appropriate
salary ordinance.
   (E)   Members shall be appointed for four-year terms from January 1 of the
year of appointment until a successor is appointed.
      (1)   The initial terms of the members of the Recreation Board shall be
as follows:
         (1)   One term for one year.
         (2)   One term for two years.
         (3)   One term for three years.
         (4)   Two terms for four years.
      (2)   Any vacancies that occur in connection with the Board shall be
filled by the appropriate action of the Town Council. The new member shall
serve the remainder of any unexpired term of the vacant position.
   (F)   The Recreation Board shall manage all recreational areas such as
parks, beaches, trails, including approaches to the recreational areas, that
belong to the Town of Hamilton.
   (G)   The Recreation Board shall have all the powers and limitations
enumerated in I.C. 36-10-5-2. Any amendments to said code section are hereby
incorporated by reference under the terms of this section as said amendments
shall be promulgated. Any conflict between the provisions of this section and
I.C. 36-10-5-2 shall be controlled by the Indiana Code statute. Those powers
and limitations include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   The Recreation Board shall exercise general supervision of the
parks.
      (2)   Establish rules governing the use of the parks and recreation
facilities;
      (3)   Cooperate and communicate with the Town Marshal to evaluate a need
for and provide police protection and/or oversight for any special events held
in the park or recreation facilities.
      (4)   Make an annual report to the Town Council which report shall
include the status of the park and recreations programs provided in the town
parks. Such annual report shall be submitted to the Council no later than
January 31 of each year, which report shall be for the prior calendar year.
      (5)   To negotiate the terms of any contracts and/or leases regarding the
use of the park facilities, the services provided in the park facilities and
for any other programs to be provided in the park facilities. The Recreation
Board may appoint a Superintendent of Parks at their discretion, the terms of
said appointment to be contained within an annual written contract. Any such
contracts or leases shall then be submitted to the Town Council and executed by
the Town Executive.
      (6)   Engage in self-supporting activities.
   (H)   The Recreation Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for
park and recreational purposes which shall be promptly delivered to the Clerk-
Treasurer and receipted into the Park Non-Reverting Fund.
   (I)   Park aud recreation facilities shall be made available to the public
free of charge in so far as possible. If it is deemed necessary in the opinion
of the Recreation Board in order to provide a particular activity, the
Recreation Board may charge a reasonable fee based upon the direct cost of
providing the activity. In the event a fee is established as provided herein,
the Recreation Board or its designee will communicate and coordinate with the
Clerk-Treasurer on accounting guidelines for establishing a fund, budget, and
revenue accounts. Any fees for such programs shall be paid directly to the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer or through the town's website. The location of
and forms associated with registrations for such programs shall be the
responsibility of the Recreation Board.
   (J)   Funding for the park facilities and programing shall be included by
the Town Council during its annual budget process.
      (1)   The amount of funding for programs, park equipment, improvements
and the like shall be based on recommendations of the Recreation Board by way
of an annual budget request submitted by the Recreation Board on or before
March annually. After the DLGF has approved the town budget, funds appropriated
through the budget process shall be spent as determined by the Recreation Board
and in accordance with the approved budget.
      (2)   Capital improvement projects to the recreational areas such as the
construction of buildings, fences, or other permanent structures shall be paid
for from the approved budget. Ongoing maintenance, repairs, replacements, and
upkeep of those permanent improvements, whether erected or installed before or
after the adoption of this section, shall be paid for from the approved budget.
The ongoing maintenance, etc., includes but is not limited to such things as
buildings, pavilions, tennis courts, basketball courts, playground equipment,
fences, water fountains, doors and similar structures or improvements. The town
will fund and oversee the utility to the recreational areas, routine
maintenance of the grounds of the recreational areas and the salary expense of
town employees.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 2-3-14)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL POLICY
Section
   
33.01   Personnel policy adopted by reference
   
33.02   Deferred compensation plan
   
33.03   Nepotism policy; contracting with a unit by a relative policy
§ 33.01 PERSONNEL POLICY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Hamilton Personnel Policy, originally adopted as Ordinance 91-1,
4-1-91, as amended by Ord. 92-4, 6-1-92, and recompiled and amended by
Ordinance 93-5, passed 12-20-93, and recompiled and amended by Ord. 2003-15, 9-
15-03, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same as
if set forth in full herein.
   (B)   Copies of the personnel policy are available for public inspection in
the office of the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (C)   Amendments to the Hamilton Personnel Policy made after September 15,
2003 shall be effective upon approval by the Town Council which approval may be
made by motion. An amendment to this section to reflect any Hamilton Personnel
Policy amendments or recompiling is not necessary to make the amendment to the
Hamilton Personnel Policy effective.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 4-1-91; Am. Ord. 92-4, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 93-5, passed
12-20-93; Am. Ord. 2003-15, passed 9-15-03; Am. Ord. 2009-02, passed 12-30-09)
§ 33.02 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby adopts the U.S. Conference of Mayors Deferred
Compensation Program and its attendant investment options and hereby
establishes the Town's Deferred Compensation Plan for the participation of all
eligible employees.
   (B)   The Indiana Deferred Compensation Plan, Inc., is hereby authorized to
execute for the town individual participation agreements with each eligible
employee requesting same, and to act as the Administrator of the Plan
representing the town, and to execute agreements and contracts as are necessary
to implement the program.
   (C)   It is implicitly understood that other than the incidental expenses of
collecting and disbursing the employee's deferrals and other minor
administrative matters, that there is to be no cost to the town for the
program. Notwithstanding this provision, the town shall make a contribution to
the plan on behalf of certain individuals impacted by the town's decision not
to purchase prior service credit when the town entered the Indiana Public
Employees' Retirement Fund effective July 1, 1989. The contribution shall be
determined by the town in consultation with the Administrator of the plan, and
subject to all applicable limits under the Internal Revenue Code. The
contribution shall also be subject to all applicable employment taxes, as
required by the Internal Revenue Code.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 7-3-95)
§ 33.03 NEPOTISM POLICY; CONTRACTING WITH A UNIT BY A RELATIVE POLICY.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012 known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012 the town shall have a nepotism and a contracting with
a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter nepotism policy) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter contracting with a
unit by a relative policy) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town nepotism policy is hereby established effective July 1, 2012
by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2 in effect on July I is attached to Ord. 2012-
2.
   (D)   The town contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective July 1,2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition a copy of the I.C. 36-1-21 in effect on July
1 is attached to Ord. 2012-2.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are more stringent or detailed and that
more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and therefore without authority by the majority he or she will not
be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-5-2-9.4.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without authority by the majority
the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of either
the nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of either the nepotism policy or
the contracting with unit by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed
by law.
   (K)   The polices created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions: a) posting a copy of this section
in its entirety in at least one of the locations in the town where it posts
employer posters or other notices to its employees; b) providing a copy of this
section to its employees and elected and appointed officials; c) providing or
posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or d) any other action or
actions that would communicate the polices established by this section to its
employees and elected and appointed officials. Upon any of taking these actions
these policies are deemed implemented by the town.
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 effective
July 1, 2012 are annexed to Ord. 2012-2.
   (M)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer for the town
for public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 7-13-12)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE; FUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Claim payments allowed in advance of Council approval
   
34.02   Town membership dues
   
34.03   Economic revitalization and tax reassessment procedures
   
34.04   Fees for town services
   
34.05   Public depositories
   
34.06   Recovering costs for emergency services
Funds
   
34.10   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
34.11   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
34.12   Usage of Industrial Development Funds
   
34.13   Motor Vehicle Highway Fund
   
34.14   Firearms Training Fund
   
34.15   Local Road and Street Fund
   
34.16   LECE Fund
   
34.17   Major Moves Fund; Water Utility Fund
   
34.18   Rainy Day Fund
Cross-reference:
   Unsafe Building Fund, see §
150.34
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 CLAIM PAYMENTS ALLOWED IN ADVANCE OF COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Town Council hereby adopts an ordinance allowing the Clerk-Treasurer to make
claim payments in advance of Council allowance for the following kinds of
expenses:
   (A)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
Government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions.
   (B)   License or permit fees.
   (C)   Insurance premiums.
   (D)   Utility payments or utility connection charges.
   (E)   Federal grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and the
contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced.
   (F)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute.
   (G)   Maintenance or service agreements.
   (H)   Leases or rental agreements.
   (I)   Bond or coupon payments.
   (J)   Payroll.
   (K)   State, federal, or county taxes.
(Ord. 93-6, passed 11-1-93)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to make claim payments in advance of Council approval, see I.C.
36-5-4-12
§ 34.02 TOWN MEMBERSHIP DUES.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from
the General Fund or from other funds to provide membership for the town and the
elected and appointed officials and members of the municipality's boards,
councils, departments or agencies in local, regional, state and national
associations of a civic educational or governmental nature, which have as their
purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
   (B)   The Town Council is further authorized to budget and appropriate funds
to pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings
and functions of organizations to which the municipality belongs.
('88 Code, § 2-7-1)
Statutory reference:
   Towns granted power to operate local affairs, see I.C. 36-1-3-2
§ 34.03 ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AND TAX REASSESSMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to create economic revitalization areas
within the town.
   (B)   I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time,
shall govern all petitions seeking a maximum ten year real property
reassessment and a maximum five year amortization for manufacturing equipment.
The Town Council shall select either a three-, six- or ten-year deduction for
each real property petition.
   (C)   Upon adoption of appropriate resolutions pursuant to state law, the
Council may declare economic revitalization areas throughout the town.
('88 Code, § 4-4-1)
   (D)   (1)   A person who desires designation of an area as an Economic
Revitalization Area, as defined by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1, or who requests a tax
deduction pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-3 or I.C. 1.1-12.1-45 shall file an
application at the Hamilton Town Hall and pay filing fees as follows:
         (a)   $500 for a deduction application related to personal property;
         (b)   $500 for a deduction application related to real property;
         (c)   $850 for the deduction application related to personal property
and real property.
      (2)   However, the filling fee charged for filing a designation
application for a parcel that contains one or more owner-occupied, single
family dwellings shall not exceed the cost of publication of any required
notice. Also the petitioner may not file for a change in assessment for the
said property during this abatement.
(Am. Ord. 2013-2, passed 4-1-13)
§ 34.04 FEES FOR TOWN SERVICES.
   (A)   The town shall charge the following fees for the following services:
Service Fee
Service                                 Fee
Document copying (11 x 14 or less)      $ .10 per page/per side
Document copying (greater than 11 x 14) $ .25 per page/per side
Computer disc duplication               $ 25.00
Audiotape duplication                   $ 25.00
Facsimile sent/received                 $ .25 per sheet
                                        Actual direct cost per invoice from
Document copied by outside service      outside service plus postage and/or
                                        travel expenses
Postage fees to mail documents          Actual cost per post office receipt
 
   (B)   All fees shall be paid in advance and the proceeds of such fee shall
be deposited in the General Fund.
   (C)   Requests for services shall be made during regular business hours of
the Office of the Clerk- Treasurer either in person, phone, facsimile or mail.
The town shall provide the services requested within a reasonable period of
time and shall have a reasonable period of time so as not to unreasonably
interfere with other official business of the town.
   (D)   A request for the inspection or copying of public records must
identify with reasonable particularity the record being requested which should
include, among other things, the name of the record, the topic addressed by the
record and the approximate date the record was generated. The town, may in its
discretion require requests to be in writing on a form prescribed by the town.
(Ord. 2004-21, passed 12-27-04)
§ 34.05 PUBLIC DEPOSITORIES.
   (A)   Star Financial Bank and Farmers Bank are selected as depositories for
public funds collected by the town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer as the fiscal officer of the town is authorized,
as provided by other provisions of the Indiana Code, to deposit public funds in
the designated depositories as the Clerk- Treasurer deems appropriate.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 2-4-08)
§ 34.06 RECOVERING COSTS FOR EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or required a
different meaning.
      COSTS. Those necessary expenditures of monies, time, and materials
required to alleviate, control or contain an emergency, including any costs
required to collect those costs expended.
      DEPARTMENT. Within the meaning of this section is one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Fire;
         (b)   Police;
         (c)   Street;
         (d)   Water;
         (e)   Town Engineer;
         (f)   Town Attorney;
         (g)   Code Enforcement;
         (h)   Civil Defense.
      EMERGENCY. That situation which arises unexpectedly and requires quick
response by a department of the town. The term EMERGENCY does not include
responses to a residential, commercial or industrial structure fire unless such
a fire is determined to be arson by the State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   Cost accounting, allocations, and assignment.
      (1)   Whenever the town or a department responds by request or mandate to
an emergency, the department head or his/her designee shall maintain a log of
the costs incurred.
      (2)   When a final tabulation of the costs is completed, the department
head or his/her designee shall present the same to the Town Council
("Council").
         (a)   The Council shall set a hearing at which testimony may be taken
from which a determination as to the amount of costs to be allocated to each
department and the amount charged or assessed to the individual or business
receiving the department emergency services shall be made.
         (b)   Said determination of the Council shall be final.
      (3)   The Council shall require any payment of those costs charged or
assessed within 90 days from the date of determination.
      (4)   The Council shall be authorized to empower the Town Attorney to
institute legal proceedings upon non-payment within 90 days. The costs to the
town for legal proceedings shall also be assessed to the non-paying party.
      (5)   The Council shall have the authority to suspend the assessment of
costs upon finding of a routine emergency situation or when there is a
determination of undue hardship on the party receiving the emergency services.
   (C)   Hearings.
      (1)   All hearings on the accounting, allocation, and charging or
assessment of costs shall be set to coincide with regularly scheduled Council
meetings except as follows:
         (a)   When a hearing is expected to last greater than 30 minutes; or
         (b)   When undue hardship would be placed on any witnesses; or
         (c)   Whenever urgent circumstances exist to require a special meeting
of the Council to conduct the hearing.
      (2)   All parties to the hearing shall be given a notice not less than
ten days before the scheduled hearing by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   All parties shall have the opportunity to present witnesses and
cross examine.
      (4)   The decision of the Council shall be final.
   (D)   Payment of charged or assessed costs.
      (1)   Payment of charged or assessed costs shall be made to the Clerk-
Treasurer by cash, money order, or certified check.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to establish a payment schedule
so as to avoid undue hardship on the liable party, but in no event shall the
length of payments exceed one year from the date of the Council's
determination.
   (E)   Monies collected. All monies collected from a liable party shall be
credited to the department(s) who incurred the costs for the emergency
services.
   (F)   Nothing herein shall create an obligation upon the town to render
emergency services beyond that which heretofore exists by law.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 4-7-14)
FUNDS
§ 34.10 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby reestablished the Town of Hamilton Cumulative Capital
Development Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from
the levy will be retained in the town Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   The maximum rate of levy under division (B) will not exceed .15 per
$100 of assessed valuation.
   (D)   The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund will
be used for:
      I.C. 36-8-14   Cumulative Firefighting Building, Equipment, Police Radio
Fund
      I.C. 36-9-16-2   Cumulative Building Funds
      I.C. 36-9-16-3   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
      I.C. 36-9-16-5   Cumulative Street Fund
      I.C. 36-9-17   General Improvement Fund
      I.C. 36-9-26   Cumulative Building Fund - Sewers
      I.C. 36-9-27-100   Cumulative Drainage Fund
      I.C. 36-10-3-21   Cumulative Building Fund - Parks
      I.C. 36-10-4-36   Cumulative Sinking and Building Fund - Parks
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (D), funds accumulated in the Cumulative
Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the purposes
stated in division (D), if the purpose is to protect the public health, welfare
or safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate action. Money maybe
spent under the authority of this section only after the Town Council President
issues a declaration that the public health, welfare or safety is in immediate
danger that requires the expenditure of money in the Fund.
(Ord. 97-6, passed 10-6-97)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Cumulative Capital Development Fund, see I.C. 36-9-15.5-1 et seq.
§ 34.11 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Fund created. There is created in the town, a Cumulative Capital
Improvement Fund.
(Ord. 102, passed 7-26-65)
   (B)   Deposits. Proceeds allotted to the town pursuant to applicable state
law shall be deposited and used solely for capital improvements defined by the
state law.
('88 Code, § 2-6-2)
Statutory reference:
   Cumulative Capital Improvement Funds, see I.C. 36-9-16-1 through 36-9-16-6
§ 34.12 USAGE OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   The town is authorized pursuant to I.C. 5-28-9 to receive loans from
the Industrial Development Fund created pursuant to I.C. 5-28-9-9, to be used
by the town for the purpose of instituting and administering an approved
Industrial Development program in the town.
   (B)   The town may enter into lease purchase agreements and guaranty
agreements when the Town Council through proper ordinance determines that such
actions will be of benefit to the health and welfare and continued development
of the town and its citizens.
('88 Code, § 2-6-3) (Ord. 82-5, passed 8-2-82)
§ 34.13 MOTOR VEHICLE HIGHWAY FUND.
   (A)   The Motor Vehicle Highway Fund Unallocated (201) shall be renamed
Motor Vehicle Highway Fund (201).
      (1)   The fund will receive 50% of all State of Indiana motor vehicle
highway distributions received after January 1, 2019.
      (2)   The fund will retain any cash balance, including investment and
interest, as of January 1, 2019.
      (3)   The fund will receive all miscellaneous revenues related to either
Motor Vehicle Highway Fund or Motor Vehicle Highway Restricted Fund.
      (4)   The fund will be used for any legal expenditure of motor vehicle
highway dollars.
   (B)   The sub-fund Motor Vehicle Highway Fund Restricted (203)
("Restricted")is created.
      (1)   The Restricted fund will receive 50% of all State of Indiana motor
vehicle highway distributions after January 1, 2019.
      (2)   The Restricted fund will be used solely for the construction,
reconstruction and preservation of highways as defined in I.C. 8-14-1-1-(4), 8-
14-1-1(5) and 8-14-1-1(7), respectively.
('88 Code, § 2-6-5) (Am. Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-4-19)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal allocations of the Motor Vehicle Highway Account Act, see I.C. 8-
14-1-5
§ 34.14 FIREARMS TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   A Firearms Training Fund is established for the Town Marshal.
   (B)   The source of funds which are to be deposited into this Fund are the
application fees collected for licenses to carry handguns under I.C. 35-47-2-3.
   (C)   This Fund is to be used by the Town Marshal and used exclusively for
the purpose of training law enforcement officers in the proper use of firearms
or other law enforcement duties.
   (D)   The rules for proper accounting and expenditure of monies collected
and deposited into the Fund shall be those established by the State Board of
Accounts.
('88 Code, § 2-6-7)
§ 34.15 LOCAL ROAD AND STREET FUND.
   The Local Road and Street Fund (LRS) is established for the purpose of
receiving applicable state funds and for expenditures permitted by statute.
('88 Code, § 2-6-9)
Statutory reference:
   Local Road and Street Accounts, see I.C. 8-14-2-4 et seq.
§ 34.16 LECE FUND.
   (A)   The fees to be charged and collected by the town and deposited into
the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund (LECE) include the following:
      (1)   From a person applying for a four year handgun license, a $10
application fee, $5 of which shall be refunded if the license is not issued;
      (2)   From a person applying for a lifetime handgun license who does not
currently possess a valid Indiana handgun license, a $50 application fee, $30
of which shall be refunded if the license is not issued;
      (3)   From a person applying for a lifetime handgun license who currently
possess a valid Indiana handgun license, a $40 application fee, $30 of which
shall be refunded if the license is not issued; and
      (4)   For a copy of an accident report, a $5 fee.
   (B)   The fees to be charged and collected pursuant to this section shall be
automatically amended from time to time as the Indiana Legislature amends the
Indiana Code providing for the charging and collection of such fees by the
local law enforcement agency and those new fees shall be charged and collected
even though no formal amendment is made to this section.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 11-6-06)
§ 34.17 MAJOR MOVES FUND; WATER UTILITY FUND.
   (A)   The interest and earnings from the Major Moves Fund shall hereafter be
transferred in the general fund and the Clerk-Treasurer is directed to do so.
   (B)   No portion of trash bills collected and paid shall be transferred and
receipted into the Water Utility Fund for the reason that revenues collected
are insufficient to do so.
(Res. 2009-03, passed 5-6-09)
§ 34.18 RAINY DAY FUND.
   There is hereby created the Town of Hamilton Rainy Day Fund pursuant to I.C.
36-1-8-5.1. The Hamilton Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to transfer
unused and unencumbered funds to the Rainy Day Fund to the extent allowed by
I.C. 36-1-8-5.1 in an amount not to exceed 10% of the Town of Hamilton's total
annual budget for any fiscal year as adopted under I.C. 6-1.1-17.
(Ord. 03-2023, passed 7-7-23)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWERS
         
APPENDIX: WATER AND GARBAGE SERVICE APPLICATION FORM
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Authorization
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   User’s responsibility
   
50.04   Disposal limits and requirements
   
50.05   Burning and hauling requirements
   
50.06   Charges and billing
   
50.07   Trash and water deposits
§ 50.01 AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized and empowered to collect and dispose
of, or provide for the collection and disposal of, all garbage and rubbish
within the town and areas located close to and surrounding the town.
   (B)   The Council is authorized to promulgate and prescribe rules and
regulations providing for methods to be used in the storage, collection and
disposal of all garbage and rubbish and to advertise and publish the same and
the rules when duly advertised and published shall have the same force and
effect as ordinances and resolutions of the town.
   (C)   The Council is authorized to establish and maintain just and
reasonable fees for the use of and the service rendered by the town in the
collection and disposal of garbage and rubbish, in order to provide for the
payment of the service rendered to the town paying for the services from the
general tax levy and to establish a fund for such payment.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 11-4-96)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes and every waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attends to the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or other putrescible wastes except sewage
and body wastes or animal waste.
   RUBBISH. Ashes, cans, metalware, broken glass, crockery, dirt sweepings and
boxes provided that the boxes are used to contain rubbish. Exclusions from this
definition include empty boxes, grass, leaves, weeds, trees, large limbs,
debris from demolition or construction of buildings, lumber and wood.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 11-4-96)
§ 50.03 USER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Every person having any garbage on his premises shall cause the same
to be placed and kept in a metallic or sturdy plastic garbage can and shall
keep the can securely covered so that the flies and other bugs and insects
shall not have access. Garbage shall be kept so that it shall not become putrid
and give off offensive odors and it shall be so placed on the premises as not
to be unsightly and shall not be placed and kept in front yards or side yards,
except as may be necessary for pickup by the town- approved contractor. All
garbage deposited in cans or receptacles shall be reasonably free from water
and slop.
   (B)   Every person must place his garbage, rubbish and recyclables for
pickup upon the premises owned or occupied by such person and it shall be
unlawful for any person to place garbage, rubbish and recyclables for pickup
upon property not belonging to or not occupied by the person.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 11-4-96)
§ 50.04 DISPOSAL LIMITS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Every residential dwelling shall be subject to a maximum of one 96-gallon
trash toter. The toter will be supplied by the contractor. Garbage and rubbish
to be disposed of that exceeds the limit must display a special tag. The tags
will be specifically designated and will be made available by the town for
purchase and the price may vary from time to time.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 2013-4, passed 4-1-13)
§ 50.05 BURNING AND HAULING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall carry on any vehicle or any other carrier of any kind,
upon any street or alley within the town any trash, loose papers, garbage,
rubbish or other refuse without first having covered the contents with a
tarpaulin or other covering to prevent the material from blowing off of the
vehicle or other carrier along the town streets or alleys.
   (B)   All burning of paper, paper boxes or miscellaneous dry materials shall
be burned in regulation burners of wire mesh or perforated burners fitted with
covers or top enclosures to prevent blowing of burning parts. The ashes from
the burners are to be emptied by the owner and/or occupant of such property
after they are cold into small containers not exceeding a 20-gallon capacity.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 11-4-96)
§ 50.06 CHARGES AND BILLING.
   (A)   The charge per dwelling unit per month for administrative services
shall be $16.25 until further ordinance of the Town Council. The monthly charge
per residence shall be collected by placing the charge on the water bill of
each residence which uses town water. Those residences which do not use town
water shall be billed monthly on a separate billing.
   (B)   The charge of $16.25 per month shall be effective with services
rendered beginning January 1, 2019.
   (C)   The town shall charge and collect the sum of $30 for each check not
honored by the customer’s financial institution and returned to the town
regardless of the reason.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 98-12, passed 1-18-99; Am. Ord. 2000-09,
passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2005-07, passed 12-5-05; Am. Ord. 2006-17, passed 12-
28-06; Am. Ord. 2010-11, passed 12-6-10; Am. Ord. 2013-4, passed 4-1-13; Am.
Ord. 2014-4, passed 10-6-14; Am. Ord. 2018-7, passed 12-3-18)
§ 50.07 TRASH AND WATER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   When an application for water service and/or garbage and rubbish
pickup is submitted to the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer, a deposit of $150
(water only), $50 (trash only) or $200 (water and trash) shall be paid to the
town for services being made available to the property.
   (B)   In the event the applicant occupying the property does not own the
property, the occupant shall provide the town with the name and contact
information for the owner of the property or the manager of the property.
   (C)   Each owner/occupant shall pay and the town shall receive a deposit in
the amount provided herein. Utility services will only be provided once a
deposit is properly paid. In the case of non-owner occupants (hereinafter
collectively referred to as "tenant"), service will not be transferred to a new
or subsequent tenant or non-owner occupant until the such deposit is paid.
Also, in the case of the tenant, the account shall be changed into the owner's
name upon a tenant moving out and will remain so until the new tenant properly
pays required deposit.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (B) above, the owner of property described in
division (B) above may request that the utilities be placed in the owner's
name.
   (E)   Deposits made for premises occupied by a tenant will not be refunded
until such time as the service is discontinued, at which time, if the final
bill for utilities is paid in full, the deposit will be refunded; if not, the
deposit will be applied in whole or in part to the balance due.
   (F)   In the case of premises occupied by the owner, if the owner timely
pays for utility services for 12 consecutive months beginning with the first
month of service, then the deposit shall be refunded to the owner.
   (G)   In the event a customer becomes delinquent in the payment of charges
for water and/or in the payment of charges for garbage and rubbish pickup, and
the service is discontinued because of the late payment, the owner, renter or
contract purchaser must bring the account current and pay all fees due for all
services provided prior to services being restored.
(Ord. 2000-02, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2002-14, passed 10-21-02; Am. Ord. 2013-
4, passed 4-1-13; Am. Ord. 2015-5, passed 11-2-15; Am. Ord. 2021-2, passed 5-3-
21)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Authority to establish utilities
   
51.02   Unauthorized testing of hydrants prohibited
   
51.03   Installation of water meter pits and valves
   
51.04   Extension of water lines
   
51.05   Water shut-offs
   
51.06   Drilling of potable water wells prohibited
   
51.07   Installation of water lines
   
51.08   Disconnection of service
   
51.09   Backflow and cross-connections
Water Fees and Charges
   
51.15   Rates and charges established
   
51.16   Disconnection for late payment
   
51.17   Water services provided to landlord’s tenant
 
   
51.99   Penalty
   
Appendix: Water and garbage service application form
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision requirements as to water supply and sewage disposal, see §§
152.56 and
152.57
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH UTILITIES.
   (A)   The town may regulate the furnishing of water to the public. It may
also establish, maintain, and operate waterworks.
   (B)   The town may erect, maintain, and operate works for the collection,
treatment, and disposal of sewage.
(‘88 Code, § 9-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to furnish utility service, see I.C. 36-9-2-15
   Authority to furnish water, see I.C. 36-9-2-14
   Right to operate sewage plant, see I.C. 36-9-2-16 and 36-9-2-17
§ 51.02 UNAUTHORIZED TESTING OF HYDRANTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The opening of fire hydrants connected to the town water system is
forbidden except as set forth herein and any such opening shall constitute a
violation and be punishable as such.
   (B)   The following persons are authorized to open hydrants:
      (1)   Firefighters in the course of carrying out their duties either in
fighting a fire, loading a tank truck for such a purpose or preventing the
spread of a fire; or
      (2)   Water utility personnel under the guidance of or at the direction
of the operator of the facility in carrying out their duties or at the
direction of the Town Council.
   (C)   Agents of fire insurance companies or rating services may request the
town operator to open the hydrants for test purposes, if the request is made
three business days before the proposed test (or a longer period as reasonably
determined by the operator as appropriate). The operator may issue notice to
water consumers likely to be affected by the test and shall supervise the
opening and closing of the hydrant.
(Ord. 89-4, passed 7-3-89)
§ 51.03 INSTALLATION OF WATER METER PITS AND VALVES.
   (A)   The pits installed in connection with the water utility piping shall
be installed within the boundary lines of the parcel of property to be served
and in a manner and at a depth that the lid on the underground pit is flush
with the ground surface.
   (B)   The lid shall be exposed and it shall be unlawful to uncover the lid
in any manner. Anyone, except authorized personnel, who tampers with utility
property including but not limited to fire hydrants, main line valves, curb
box/stop, meter pit, facilities, and the like shall be subject to fines
established in §
51.99.
   (C)   All meters shall be furnished by the town. The customer shall be
responsible for paying, prior to the time of installation, the cost of the
meter, all appurtenances to the meter and the labor involved in installation.
(Ord. 97-1, passed 3-3-97; Am. Ord. 2002-13, passed 10-21-02; Am. Ord. 2013-4,
passed 4-1-13) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 EXTENSION OF WATER LINES.
   (A)   Extension of water lines beyond corporate boundaries.
      (1)   Municipal water lines are not to be extended beyond the corporate
boundaries without the prior execution and recordation of a water user’s
agreement by the property owner which, among other things, waives all objection
rights the owner may otherwise have to annex of the property to the town on
behalf of the owner and future owners of the property.
      (2)   Upon request made in writing to the town for the extension of
municipal water beyond the corporate boundaries, the Water Superintendent is to
make a rough estimate of the pipe, valves, hydrants and other material and
equipment necessary for such as extension and also what easements and road
bearings would be necessary to complete and maintain such an extension and
submit the same to the Town Council and the property owner. (The estimate is
solely for the benefit of the Town Council and the property owner shall not be
entitled to rely thereon should the owner decide to pursue the extension, but
it shall be understood to have the duty to make independent investigation of
the cost of the extension.)
      (3)   In addition, the Water Superintendent is to make an estimate of the
supply needs which would likely be required by users of an extension should it
be constructed and whether it would adversely affect the reverse capacity of
the town to serve present and future consumers located within the corporate
boundaries, and the appropriate sizing of mains so as to not only serve the
applying property owner, but also the present and future potential consumers
along the proposed line or extension thereof.
      (4)   (a)   It is the obligation of the property owner to pay all
material, improvement, construction and easement costs associated with making
the extension of municipal water lines to and within the site.
         (b)   Where the extension of lines is of a distance as to potentially
improve the property of other landowners, the municipal unit may enter into a
recoupment agreement meeting statutory requirements of duration and recordation
whereby the landowner may recoup from future landowners connecting to the main
a portion of the costs of making the extension according to a formula
established in the recoupment agreement. The town, however, is not obligated to
enter into such an agreement, and is also not obligated to allow other
landowners to connect into a main with such an agreement.
         (c)   Where the town determines that it is in the best interest of the
future development of the town that all, or a portion, of an extension have
over-sized mains to allow for future connections and to facilitate the eventual
annexation of lands to be served by the proposed line, the town may agree to
pay all, or a part, of the difference in cost attributable to the oversizing.
      (5)   All extensions of water lines, type and make of valves and
equipment are to be in accordance with town specifications, or where such
specifications do not exist, consistent with the instructions of the Water
Superintendent. It is the duty and responsibility of the property owner to
arrange for inspection of the lines by the Water Superintendent prior to the
burial of the same.
      (6)   All extension agreements are to provide for the warranty of the
materials and workmanship of constructed lines by the property owner for a
period of two years which warranty is to cover the cost of replacing the lines
or maintenance thereof during the period.
      (7)   Divisions (A)(1) through (A)(6) notwithstanding, upon request of a
landowner located contiguous with the corporate boundaries at the time of the
request, where the site of the proposed connection is less than the minimum lot
width from an existing water main, and with the approval of the Town Council, a
requesting landowner may be connected to the municipal water line by the
execution and recordation of a water user’s agreement and the payment of the
standard tap fee; provided, however, that whenever the connection requires the
boring under or cutting into or other utilization of a privately- owned street,
county road or state highway, the landowner shall be responsible for obtaining
any easement rights and repairing any damage done to the street, road or
highway.
   (B)   Extension of water line within a newly platted subdivision. 
      (1)   Whenever a developer proposes the development of a non-exempt
subdivision within the corporate limits of the town, the developer is to agree
to pay the cost of all improvements in the form of lines, valves, and other
equipment necessary and cost of construction and connection of all lines and
equipment necessary to connect a dwelling for each lot in the proposed
subdivision to the town water system.
      (2)   All material and construction is to be to town specifications and
the inspection and approval of the town Water Superintendent prior to burial;
and the developer shall warrant the quality and improvement of the materials
and construction for a period of two years which warranty is to cover the cost
of replacing the lines or maintenance thereof during the period.
   (C)   Extension of water line within newly platted exempt subdivisions.
      (1)   Whenever a developer proposes the development of an exempt
subdivision within the corporate limits of the town, the developer must pay the
cost of constructing and equipping of water lines in a manner that all parcels
remain within 150 feet of the water lines via a recorded easement; or
      (2)   A developer of a proposed exempt subdivision within the corporate
limits of the town may elect to comply with division (B) above.
   (D)   Extension of water lines to newly platted commercial or industrial
sites within or without town boundaries. The extension of water lines to
parcels subdivided within industrial or commercial districts to serve new
industrial or commercial sites are to be individually negotiated between the
town, the developer and the purchaser.
   (E)   Requested extensions. The town may extend a water main to any section
of the town which the town deems is profitable or necessary. Mains may be
extended to a location which is considered unprofitable by the town if the cost
of such extension is paid by the person or persons to be benefitted by the
extension.
(Ord. 93-1, passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. 2002-13, passed 10-21-02; Am. Ord. 2004-05,
passed 3-1-04)
§ 51.05 WATER SHUT-OFFS.
   (A)   In every case where the water mains of the town are to be connected
with a building or with two or more buildings, there shall be placed separate
shut-offs outside each building for each family dwelling or business office
unit therein; provided, that if in the furnishing of water service to a large
apartment house, store, office or other building where it would seem unwise to
install separate outside shut-offs for each individual user, the Superintendent
shall determine the number and sizes of the services to be installed.
   (B)   If more than one building or office unit receives its water service
from the town water main by one or more laterals where no separate outside
shut-offs are provided for each family unit or business office unit, then all
fo the water used by such dwelling or office unit shall be billed to the owner
of such dwelling or office unit, and the owner shall be responsible for the
payment of the water bill regardless of the number of water meters installed n
the building.
   (C)   The Superintendent or his representative shall have at all reasonable
times access to the pipes and fixtures on the premises of the consumer used for
the purpose of conveying water.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 10-21-02)
§ 51.06 DRILLING OF POTABLE WATER WELLS PROHIBITED.
   (A) The term WATER WELL means any system used to pump, access, or otherwise
bring to the surface underground sources of water existing under, upon or
within the confines of any premises located within the corporate limits of the
town, for the purpose of human consumption or other use, and which system or
device is installed after the effective date of this section.
   (B)   Hereafter, the installation of any private water well upon any
property located within the corporate limits of the town is prohibited
provided, however, that there is town water main located within 300 feet of any
property line of the property. This provision shall not prohibit the
installation of a non-potable water well to be used exclusively in connection
with a geothermal heating and cooling system.
   (C)   No person, including any incorporation, partnership or association,
shall drill or otherwise install any water well in violation of this section.
Violations of this section shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
Each day that such person continues to operate any such water well which has
been installed in violation of the terms of this section is deemed to be a
continuing and separate violation.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring the town of
the town water utility to install or provide any water improvements or service
to any person or premises which are not otherwise currently in existence at the
time of passage of this section.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 5-3-04; Am. Ord. 2004-08A, passed 5-3-04; Am. Ord. 2006-
09, passed 7-3-06)
§ 51.07 INSTALLATION OF WATER LINES.
   (A)   Any person installing water lines which are to be connected to the
public water mains, including, but not limited to, any person owning the
facility being so connected and any person doing construction on behalf of that
owner, are to be governed by the terms of this section and subject to the
penalties provided for herein.
   (B)   Before the commencement of construction, the person responsible for
the construction of the proposed water line connection is to have on file a
certificate of insurance at the Town Clerk’s office evidencing coverage for the
construction of the line and protecting the town from any liability pertaining
to the construction.
   (C)   Meters are to be installed inside houses, unless such installation is
impractical and a written waiver has been obtained from the Water
Superintendent.
   (D)   All risks pertaining to water meter damage from freeze-up or as a
result of any other natural occurrence, shall be retained by the customer and
shall not be the responsibility of the town. Customers are to be charged with
the expense of replacing water meters.
   (E)   All remote readers are to be placed on the structure served and four
feet above the ground.
   (F)   All water lines are to be inspected by the Water Department before
covering, and the Water Department is to be given adequate notice of the need
for the inspection.
   (G)   The town will provide customer data forms to be picked up by the
contractor when picking up meters and remotes, at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
Completed forms must be submitted to the Clerk- Treasurer’s office by no later
than 4:30 p.m. on the first Friday after they are picked up.
   (H)   All meters and remotes are to be of a type and manufacture as
specified by the Water Department of the town.
(Ord. 90-9, passed 12-3-90) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Service shall be disconnected by the town when the customer has become
two consecutive billing months delinquent and shall not be restored until the
customer has paid his or her bill, all service fees and deposit if required in
accordance with the section.
   (B)   Once a customer has been on the disconnect list twice in a rolling 12-
month period a notice will be sent to the customer notifying the customer that
if they are on the disconnect list a third time, within the rolling 12-month
period, the following requirement will be imposed:
      (1)   Customer will be required to bring account current.
      (2)   Customer will be required to pay, in full, on time, every month for
a consecutive 12-month period.
      (3)   If the requirement of division (2) above is not met, trash service
will be disconnected without notice and service will not be restored until the
account is brought current and all service fees have been paid. Also, the 12-
month period starts over.
   (C)   A notice will be mailed at the beginning of the month notifying a
customer of their status on the disconnect list. This notice will outline the
amount required to be paid and by when. Payment is due before disconnection,
which is the 24th day of the month or the Monday following, (in case the 24th
is on a Friday through Sunday). On the 23rd day of the month, or the Friday
before, (in the event the 23rd falls on a Saturday or Sunday) the Street
Department will post a notice on the doors of all customers who have failed to
pay their outstanding bill. Anyone who receives this notice will be charged a
$5 notice fee. The notice will require the customer to pay or contact the
Clerk’s office with payment arrangements (signed acknowledgment by a owner if
the customer requesting payment arrangements is a renter or contract purchaser)
prior to 8:00 a.m. on disconnect day. For a customer who has not followed these
instructions and is on the shut-off list a $30 non-compliant fee shall be
charged and services will be discontinued/disconnected. Service(s) will not
resume until the account is brought current and all fees/deposits have been
paid.
(Ord. 2013-4, passed 4-1-13)
§ 51.09 BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the town (Water
Purveyor) from the possibility of contamination or pollution by isolation
within the consumer’s internal distribution system(s) or the consumer’s private
water system(s) such contaminants or pollutants which could backflow into the
public water systems;
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections; actual or potential, between the consumer’s in-plant potable water
system(s) and non-potable water system(s), plumbing fixtures and industrial
piping systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of continuing the program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Responsibility. The Water Utility Superintendent shall be responsible
for the protection of the public potable water distribution system from
contamination or pollution due to the backflow of contaminants or pollutants
through the water service connection. If, in the judgement of said Water
Utility Superintendent an approved backflow prevention assembly is required at
the consumer’s water service connection for the safety of the water system, the
Water Utility Superintendent or his or her designated agent shall give notice
in writing to said consumer’s own expense: and, failure, refusal or inability
on the party of the consumer to install, have tested and maintained said
assembly(s), shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such requirements have been satisfactorily met.
   (C)   (1)   Including but not limited to, the guidelines and regulations
adopted by IDEM, the IDEM cross- connection rules currently found at 327 IAC 8-
10-1 and following, as they shall be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated by reference and shall be considered to be an ordinance of the
town.
      (2)   The town as a Water Purveyor shall have the right of entry onto all
customers’ premises for the purpose of inspection and investigation and shall
also have the authority to take enforcement action, such as termination of
water service.
      (3)   The Water Utility Superintendent is directed to prepare an
enforcement procedure and policy. The current policy is as follows and is
hereby approved by the Town Council:
         (a)   The Water Utility Superintendent shall first make verbal contact
with the customer regarding compliance with any provision of the cross-
connection rules and give the customer reasonable time to come into compliance;
         (b)   If there is no compliance after the verbal contact, the Water
Utility Superintendent shall send a letter requiring compliance within 30 days
of the date of the letter;
         (c)   In the event there is non-compliance following the letter, the
customer will be disconnected; and
         (d)   Fees and penalties for disconnection, re-connection, etc., as
otherwise contained in the code of ordinances shall apply to these enforcement
proceedings.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 6-6-16)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 51.15 RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Waterworks rates and charges. There shall be established for the use
of and the service rendered by the waterworks system of the town, the following
rates and charges, based on the use of water supplied by the waterworks system:
      (1)   Metered rates:
 
Quantity of Water Used Per Month 2021  2022  2023  2024
(Number of Gallons)
First 2,500 gallons              $8.77 $9.03 $9.30 $9.58
Next 17,500 gallons              $7.70 $7.93 $8.17 $8.42
Next 40,000 gallons              $6.56 $6.76 $6.96 $7.17
Next 90,000 gallons              $5.49 $5.65 $5.82 $5.99
All over 150,000 gallons         $4.38 $4.51 $4.65 $4.79
 
      (2)   Minimum charge. Each user shall pay for a minimum charge in
accordance with the following applicable size of meter installed, for which the
user will be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the above schedule of
rates.
Meter Size 2021 2022 2023 2024
Meter Size 2021      2022      2023      2024
5/8 - 3/4  $21.92    $22.58    $23.26    $23.96
1          $56.52    $58.22    $59.97    $61.77
1-1/4      $84.99    $87.54    $90.17    $92.88
1-1/2      $113.32   $116.72   $120.22   $123.83
2          $182.60   $188.08   $193.72   $199.53
3          $349.33   $359.81   $370.60   $381.72
4          $601.22   $619.26   $637.84   $656.98
6          $1,287.89 $1,326.53 $1,366.33 $1,407.32
 
      (3)   Monthly readings. For the purpose of billing and collecting the
charges for water use, the meters will be read monthly.
      (4)   Fire protection service.
         (a)   Hydrants.
 
                                              2021    2022    2023    2024
Municipal hydrants – per hydrant –- per an$843.71 $869.02 $895.09 $921.94
Private hydrants – per hydrant – per annum$843.71 $869.02 $895.09 $921.94
Outside corporate limit hydrant surcharge per $7.08   $7.29   $7.51   $7.74
month
 
         (b)   Private sprinklers.
 
             2021      2022      2023      2024
2-inch line  $281.68   $290.13   $298.83   $307.79
3-inch line  $421.86   $434.52   $447.56   $460.99
4-inch line  $619.16   $637.73   $656.86   $676.57
6-inch line  $1,405.73 $1,447.90 $1,491.34 $1,536.08
8-inch line  $1,499.76 $1,544.75 $1,591.09 $1,638.82
10-inch line $3,936.86 $4,054.97 $4,176.62 $4,301.92
 
      (5)   Availability fee.
Meter Size 2021 2022 2023 2024
Meter Size 2021       2022       2023       2024
5/8        $650.04    $669.54    $689.62    $710.31
1          $1,689.86  $1,740.56  $1,792.78  $1,846.56
1-1/4      $2,534.79  $2,610.83  $2,689.15  $2,769.82
1-1/2      $3,379.72  $3,481.11  $3,585.54  $3,693.11
2          $5,395.25  $5,557.11  $5,723.82  $5,895.53
3          $10,335.34 $10,645.40 $10,964.76 $11,293.70
4          $17,811.50 $18,345.85 $18,896.23 $19,463.12
6          $38,233.19 $39,369.89 $40,550.99 $41,767.52
 
      (6)   Equity fee. Prior to connecting to the town’s waterworks system, a
customer shall be required to pay an availability fee (referred to as an equity
fee) as set forth hereafter. These fees will be used by the utility in the best
interests of the utility and in accordance with the utility’s policies but
shall be primarily to offset the costs of future extensions, modifications, and
improvements to the town’s waterworks.
      (7)   Connection within 90 days. Upon payment and collection of the fees
established above, the customer shall have 90 days to connect to the town’s
water distribution system. If a connection is not made within 90 days, then the
customer shall be obligated to pay the minimum charge based upon a 5/8 to 3/
4 meter size established by the town’s water rate charge ordinance.
      (8)   Tap/installation fee. Any and all size meters: the tap/installation
fee for any and all size meters shall be the actual cost to the town, but not
less than $500. The minimum fee is $500.
   (B)   Collections and deferred payment charges.
      (1)   (a)   All bills shall be due and payable monthly. Bills unpaid more
than 22 days following the date of billing shall include a collection charge of
10% on the first $3 of unpaid billing and 3% on the balance of unpaid billing
in excess of $3. In addition, should it become necessary to employ the services
of an attorney to collect any unpaid fees and charges, the customer shall pay,
in addition to those fees and charges, reasonable attorney’s fees and court
costs.
         (b)   The town shall charge and collect the sum of $30 for each check
not honored by the customer’s financial institution and returned to the town
regardless of the reason.
      (2)   Service shall be disconnected by the town when the customer has
become two consecutive billing months delinquent and shall not be restored
until the customer has paid his or her bill, all service fees and any required
deposit.
      (3)   Once a customer has been on the disconnect list twice in a rolling
12-month period a notice will be sent to the customer notifying the customer
that if they are on the disconnect list a third time, within the rolling 12-
month period, the following requirement will be imposed:
         (a)   Customer will be required to bring account current.
         (b)   Customer will be required to pay, in full, on time, every month
for a consecutive 12-month period.
         (c)   If the requirement of division (B)(2) of this section is not
met, service will be disconnected without notice and service will not be
restored until the account is brought current and all service fees have been
paid. Also, the 12-month period starts over.
      (4)   A notice will be mailed at the beginning of the month notifying a
customer of their status on the disconnect list. This notice will outline the
amount required to be paid and by when. Payment is due before disconnection,
which is the 24th day of the month or the Monday following in case the 24th is
on a Friday through Sunday. On the 23rd day of the month, or the Friday before,
(in the event the 23rd falls on a Saturday or Sunday) the Street Department
will post a notice on the doors of all customers who have failed to pay their
outstanding bill. Anyone who receives this notice will be charged a $5 notice
fee. The notice will require the customer to pay or contact the Clerk’s office
with payment arrangements (signed acknowledgment by a owner if the customer
requesting payment arrangements is a renter or contract purchaser) prior to 8:
00 a.m. on disconnect day. For a customer who has not followed these
instructions and is on the shut-off list a $30 non-compliant fee shall be
charged and services will be discontinued/disconnected. Service(s) will not
resume until the account is brought current and all fees/deposits have been
paid.
   (C)   Cost of materials. Any materials furnished or provided by the town
either for use by town personnel or for use by other contractors requesting
materials and supplies from the utility shall be charged to the customer or
contractor, as the case may be, at the town’s cost plus 15%.
   (D)   Adjustment. A financial analysis and rate review of the water utility
shall be done in 2015 in order for the Council to determine whether an
adjustment is warranted.
   (E)   Fees.
      (1)   There will be no fee to the customer to reconnect service for
service that was disconnected/discontinued for non-payment of bills, however,
the customer is still subject to other fees set forth in §
51.15 including the fee in §
51.15 (B)(4).
      (2)   There will be no fee to the customer for scheduled shut-offs for
repair or similar service during business hours (Monday through Friday, 9:00
a.m. to 3:00 p.m.) with 24 advance hours notice to the town. In the event that
notice is not properly given by the customer to the town, the customer will be
charged and will pay a $25 trip fee for each trip made by the town.
      (3)   There will be no fee to the customer for scheduled shut-offs in
connection with new construction, remodeling or renovation of an existing
structure or a damaged structure during business hours (Monday through Friday,
9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.) with 24 advance hours notice to the town. In the event
that notice is not properly given by the customer to the town, the customer
will be charged and will pay a $25 trip fee for each trip made by the town.
      (4)   (a)   There will be a $25 trip fee for each trip made by the town
for service calls made outside of business hours. The term “service” includes
disconnects and reconnects and, in addition, shall be liberally construed to
include, but not be limited to, visual inspections, repairs, replacement, and
services of any type on any water apparatus, regardless of its location.
         (b)   Business hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. through 3:00
p.m. and any references to business hours in §
51.15(E) are hereby amended.
      (5)   A $25 reconnect charge for all seasonal reconnects.
   (F)   Reconnection fee. 
      (1)   Following disconnection at the request of the customer based on an
affidavit establishing no need for water facilities on real estate, which
disconnection shall first be approved by the Town Council, no reconnection
shall be made until payment of the tap/installation fee as established in §
51.15(A)(8) as may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be authorized to request disconnection on
behalf of a customer provided the Clerk-Treasurer establishes to the
satisfaction of the Town Council the following circumstances:
         (a)   No payments have been received by the town from or on behalf of
the customer for a period of six continuous months; or
         (b)   There is no need for water facilities to the improvements on the
real estate in the name of the customer because of abandonment of or damage to
the improvements, or similar circumstances as established by the Clerk-
Treasurer; or
         (c)   There are no improvements whatsoever on the real estate owned by
the customer.
         (d)   In the event the Town Council approves the disconnection upon
the request of the Clerk-Treasurer, no reconnection shall be made until payment
of the tap/installation fee as established by §
51.15(A)(8) as amended from time to time.
(‘88 Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 78-3, passed 9-11-78; Am. Ord. 91-5, passed 1-6-92;
Am. Ord. 98-3, passed 4-20-98; Am. Ord. 2002-12, passed 10-7-02; Am. Ord. 2004-
09, passed 6-7-04; Am. Ord. 2005-08, passed 12-5-05; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed
2-6-06; Am. Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-6-10; Am. Ord. 2013-4, passed 4-1-13; Am.
Ord. 2015-2, passed 9-8-15; Am. Ord. 2015-6, passed 11-2-15; Am. Ord. 2021-1,
passed 5-3-21)
§ 51.16 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for waiver of payment will not be entertained; payment
arrangements may be requested with the Clerk’s Office on a case by case basis
prior to the due date; questions of proper and correct billing will be
considered. In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the
hearing procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time
specified, not until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge as
established by the Town Council.
(Am. Ord. 2013-4, passed 4-1-13)
§ 51.17 WATER SERVICES PROVIDED TO LANDLORD’S TENANT.
   (A)   When any property owner, renter or contract purchaser of real estate
makes application for water and garbage and rubbish pickup from the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer, a deposit of $50 shall be made to the town for such
services made available to the property in which the owner, renter or contract
purchaser is located. In no event will services be provided to any renter or
contract purchaser unless the owner of the real estate signs the application
and agrees to be responsible for any water and garbage and rubbish pickup
services rendered to the owner’s property, in the event the renter or contract
purchaser vacates the property without paying the water bill and the garbage
bill.
   (B)   If the owner, renter or contract purchaser of the real estate shall
pay all service charges for water and garbage for the next 12 consecutive
months, all payments on time with no bills becoming past due, then, in that
event, the $50 deposit shall be refunded to the owner, renter or contract
purchaser who originally made the deposit, without interest thereon.
   (C)   If the owner, renter or contract purchaser fails to pay charges for
water service and garbage pickup service on time for each of the next 12
consecutive months, then the deposit shall be retained by the town until such
time as all service charges for water and garbage have been paid on time, with
no bill becoming past due for the next 12 consecutive months.
   (D)   In the event an owner, renter or contract purchaser becomes delinquent
in the payment of charges for water and/or in the payment of charges for
garbage pickup, and the service is discontinued because of the late payment,
then the deposit shall be applied on delinquent charges for water and garbage,
unless the owner, renter or contract purchaser makes payment in full of all
delinquencies due the town, including service charges and late fees and
reconnection charges, before service is resumed. If the entire $50 deposit is
applied on such charges and fees, then an additional deposit will be required
in the amount of $50 before service is resumed.
(Ord. 2000-02, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2002-14, passed 10-21-02)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the provisions set forth in §
51.03 and §
51.07 constitutes an ordinance violation, and each day such violation continues
is to be considered an additional violation, and shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $50 per day.
(Am. Ord. 90-9, passed 12-3-90; Am. Ord. 2013-4, passed 4-1-13)
APPENDIX: WATER AND GARBAGE SERVICE APPLICATION FORM
TOWN OF HAMILTON, INDIANA
Department of Water
Clerk-Treasurer’s Office
APPLICATION FOR WATER AND GARBAGE SERVICE
BY PROPERTY OWNER AND TENANT/PURCHASER
Application Date                                                       Account
#                                        
Service Address
                                                                                                                      
Name of Resident
                                                                                                                   
Renting                                Land Contract
                                     Buying                     
Property Owner Information:
Name                                                                   Co-Owner
                                             
Social Security #                                                    Social
Security #                                     
Address
                                                                                                                                 
Telephone                                                   
Tenant/Contract Purchaser Information:
Name                                                                 Co-
Applicant                                          
Social Security #                                                  Social
Security #                                     
Driver’s License #                                                Driver’s
License #                                  
Mailing Address
                                                                                                                     
      (If different from service address)
Telephone                                                       
Number of People at Service Address:   Adults                   Children
                
Employer                                                          Employer
                                              
Emp. Address                                                    Emp. Address
                                        
Previous Address
                                                                                                                    
Previous Landlord Name and Address
                                                                                       
                                                                                                                   
   By completing and signing this form, utility services will be provided to a
tenant/contract purchaser; however, the ordinances of the Town of Hamilton will
provide that the property owner is responsible for all water and sanitation
services provided to the owner’s property, including rental properties or
contract sale properties. In consideration for providing services to a tenant
or contract purchaser of owner’s property, the property owner agrees:
   1.   To be responsible and pay for all utilities consumed on the above-
mentioned premises. This section also applies to rental property and contract
sale property.
   2.   The meter furnished by the Utility is, and shall remain, the property
of the Utility, and the Utility’s agents shall have access to the meter at all
times to read, to repair, to lock off, seal or remove the same.
   3.   The Utility’s agents shall have access to the meter, pipes, wires and
conduits at all times to ascertain that the service supplied is passing through
the meter and is properly registering the same, and to stop the supply of
service for non-payment of bills, without notice, when past due, or for any
other lawful cause or purpose which the Utility may deem sufficient. The agents
and employees are hereby authorized to enter the premises of the applicant, at
all times, for any such lawful cause or purpose, such as disconnecting or
adjusting the meter, removing the meter, with connections, or any other
property belonging to the Utility.
   4.   Nothing contained herein shall mean, or be construed to mean, that the
Utility shall be required to inspect or examine, or in any way be responsible
for the condition of the pipes, wires or conduits on the Applicant’s premises.
   5.   I have received a copy of the rules and regulations.
                                    (initials)
   6.   I, the owner, (want/do not want) to receive monthly bills for this
property.
Date
                                                                                                                               
                                 Owner’s Signature
Date
                                                                                                                               
                                 Co-Owner’s Signature
Date
                                                                                                                               
                                 Tenant/Purchaser’s Signature
Date
                                                                                                                               
                                 Co-Tenant/Purchaser’s Signature
                                 Co-Tenant/Purchaser’s Signature
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
74.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
APPENDIX: ABANDONED VEHICLE ENFORCEMENT PROCESS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance required
   
70.03   Turning movements
   
70.04   Speed limit
   
70.05   Non-through streets for trucks
   
70.06   Golf carts
   
70.07   Recreational off-road vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-2 and 9-21-1-3
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of I.C. Title 9 shall govern all provisions of this chapter.
('88 Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The owner, operator, driver, or person in charge of any vehicle drawn,
propelled or driven upon any of the streets, alleys, avenues or other public
places in the town shall conform to and observe the following rules and
regulations.
('88 Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 14, passed 7-13-18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   U-turns are not permitted upon any street in the town.
('88 Code, § 8-2-6) (Ord. 14, passed 7-13-18; Am. Ord. 89-3, passed 5-1-89)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 SPEED LIMIT.
   Unless otherwise posted, no person or persons shall drive or cause to be
driven any vehicle at a speed greater than 30 miles per hour on any of the
streets of the town.
('88 Code, § 8-2-7)
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits on specific streets, see
Chapter 72, Schedule IV
§ 70.05 NON-THROUGH STREETS FOR TRUCKS.
   All secondary streets within the town are designated as non-through streets
for trucks.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 5-1-89)
§ 70.06 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, GOLF CARTS, which also may be referred
to and are intended to include golf cars, are defined as a self propelled
vehicle originally designed for or similar to a vehicle originally designed for
driving on a golf course and which vehicle is intended to be driven for limited
distances at relatively slow speeds and which have factory equipped steering
wheels and factory equipped mufflers.
   (B)   Only persons with a valid operator's license issued by the State of
Indiana or by the state of residence of the operator of the golf cart may
operate a golf cart upon the streets and alleys in the town.
   (C)   (1)   All golf carts to be operated on the public streets and alleys
shall be registered with the town and the owner thereof shall pay an annual
registration fee. The annual registration is for a period of time from January
l to December 31 of the same year, at which time the annual registration shall
expire. The registration forms are available in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer and the registration fee shall be paid to the town through the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer. At the time of registration, the owner shall present
proof of insurance insuring not only the golf cart from property damage but
also carrying property damage and personal liability coverage for injury or
damage to property of others and of personal injury to other persons with a
minimum combined single limit of $100,000. Prior to the issuance of a new
registration by the Clerk-Treasurer, the golf cart shall be inspected by the
Town Marshal (or his or her designee) to insure compliance with the provisions
of this section. A certificate of compliance shall be issued for a golf cart
deemed to be in compliance under this section. Renewal registrations are exempt
from the inspection provision in this section. All provisions of this section
apply to owner operated golf carts as well as those leased or rented from a
vendor.
      (2)   The registration fee shall be as follows:
         (a)   $25 for annual registration.
         (b)   $5 for a daily registration.
         (c)   $10 for an event registration. An event, and the duration of the
event shall be determined by the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   The town shall issue a sticker/placard for each golf cart properly
registered which must be affixed to the driver's side windshield or on the hood
immediately below the driver's side windshield.
      (4)   A golf cart lawfully registered by another municipality will be
deemed registered in the town, provided, however, that the other municipality
has an ordinance requiring the same equipment and requiring liability insurance
identical to the town. A golf cart in compliance with this section shall be
issued a sticker or placard without a fee.
   (D)   All golf carts being operated pursuant to the terms of this section
shall obey all of the rules of the road and traffic regulations of the state
and the town and shall also display an orange flag or pennant attached to a
pole so that the flag or pennant is at least seven feet above the surface of
the street.
   (E)   All golf carts shall comply with the provisions of I.C. 9-21-9 (Slow
Moving Vehicles) in effect at the time of the adoption of this section and as
amended from time to time. All golf carts being operated after dusk shall be
equipped with head lights, tail lights and turn signals.
   (F)   No golf cart shall be operated in inclement weather, such as fog, ice,
snow, rain or other weather conditions, when such weather conditions make it
unsafe for the driver, passengers or other vehicles or pedestrians.
   (G)   No golf carts shall be operated upon any sidewalk within the town.
   (H)   Golf carts shall be equipped with rear view mirrors and factory
seating and occupancy shall not exceed that to be accommodated by factory
seating. No person under the age of two years shall be allowed to ride on a
golf cart and all persons under the age of ten years must ride in the front
seat. The driver and all passengers in the golf cart must be seated while the
cart is in motion.
   (I)   The Town Council may exempt from the provisions of this section the
use of golf carts by public safety personnel.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-5-18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 RECREATIONAL OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   As defined in I.C. 14-8-2-185, RECREATIONAL OFF-ROAD VEHICLE means a
motorized off-road vehicle that is manufactured, advertised or sold as a
recreational off-road vehicle and:
      (1)   Is 65 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less;
      (3)   Is designed for travel on at least four non-highway or off-highway
tires; and
      (4)   Is designed for recreational use by one or more individuals.
   (B)   Recreational off-road vehicles, as defined above, shall be permitted
to be operated and used on the streets and alleys within the corporate limits
of the town.
   (C)   All-terrain vehicles, as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-5.7 as now enacted,
supplemented or amended, shall not be permitted to be operated and used on the
streets and alleys within the corporate limits of the town.
   (D)   Go-carts or any vehicle resembling or similar to a go-cart, whether
factory manufactured or home-made, shall not be permitted to be operated and
used on the streets and alleys within the corporate limits of the town.
   (E)   The ownership, use and operation of recreational off-road vehicles
shall be done in strict compliance with the provisions of I.C. 14-16-1 et seq.,
as now enacted, supplemented or amended, and also in strict compliance with all
the other provisions of the Indiana Code applicable to the use and operation of
recreational off-road vehicles.
   (F)   Operators of recreational off-road vehicles shall obey all of the
rules of the road, traffic regulations of the state and the town.
   (G)   As required by I.C. 14-16-1-20(c) as now enacted, supplemented or
amended, operators of recreational off-road vehicles are required to have a
valid motor vehicle driver's license.
   (H)   All recreational off-road vehicles to be operated on the public
streets and alleys shall be registered with the town.
   (I)   The annual registration is for a period of time from January 1 to
December 31 of the same year, at which time the annual registration shall
expire. The registration forms are available in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (J)   At the time of registration the owner shall present proof of insurance
insuring not only the recreational off-road vehicle from property damage but
also carrying property damage and personal liability coverage for injury or
damage to property of other persons and of personal injury to other persons
with a minimum combined single limit of $100,000. Prior to the issuance of the
registration by the Clerk-Treasurer, the recreational off-road vehicle shall be
inspected by the Town Marshal to insure compliance with the terms of this
section.
   (K)   All provisions of this section shall apply to owner-operated
recreational off-road vehicles as well as those leased or rented from a vendor.
   (L)   Recreational off-road vehicles and go-carts shall not be operated upon
any sidewalk within the town.
   (M)   No person under the age of two years shall be allowed to ride on a
recreational off-road vehicle, and all persons under the age of ten years must
ride in the front seat of a recreational off-road vehicle.
   (N)   If the recreational off-road vehicle is equipped with seat belts they
shall be used by the operator and any passengers. All children under the age of
18 years are required to wear a helmet on or in any recreational off-road
vehicle as provided by Indiana House Enrolled Act 1200 which amended I.C. 9-
18.1-14-11 as it currently provides and as amended from time to time.
   (O)   An recreational off-road vehicle lawfully registered in another city,
town or county shall be deemed registered in the town, provided, however, that
the other registering agency has an ordinance with the same requirements as
this section.
   (P)   No recreational off-road vehicle shall be operated in inclement
weather, such as fog, ice, snow, rain or other weather conditions, when such
weather conditions make it unsafe for the driver, passengers or other vehicles
or pedestrians.
   (Q)   Any person operating a recreational off-road vehicle within the town
not in compliance with the terms of this section shall be ordered by the Town
Marshal or any other law enforcement agency to immediately cease operation
until compliance with this section is accomplished.
   (R)   The Town Council may exempt from the provisions of this section the
use of recreational off-road vehicles by safety personnel.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-5-18)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
traffic code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the provisions of §
10.99. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   A violation of the provisions of §
70.06 shall be punishable by a fine in a sum not to exceed $100. Each day a
violation of §
70.06 is permitted or suffered to continue shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense. If two or more violations occur within the same calendar
year, the registration shall be suspended for the balance of the calendar year.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-5-18)
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Parking prohibited in certain locations
   
71.02   Parking near fire hydrants
   
71.03   Loading zones
   
71.04   Manner of parking
   
71.05   Signs
   
71.06   Trucks, trailers and the like restricted to one hour
   
71.07   Towing of illegally parked vehicles
   
71.071   Parking in the town parking lot
   
71.072   Parking prohibited during a snow emergency
Regulation of Junk Vehicles
   
71.08   Definition
   
71.09   Declared to be public nuisance
   
71.10   Authority to order removal of junk vehicle
   
71.11   Notice to owner
   
71.12   Disposal of junk vehicles
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   A person may not stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to avoid conflict with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk.
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (C)   Within an intersection.
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   (E)   On a crosswalk.
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign, or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   (H)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
traffic authority indicates a different length by signs or markings.
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to a fire station and, on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to a fire station, within 75 feet of the
entrance (when properly sign posted).
   (K)   Alongside or opposite a street excavation or obstruction if stopping,
standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
   (L)   On the roadway side of a vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb
of a street.
   (M)   Upon a bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway tunnel.
   (N)   At any place where official signs prohibited stopping.
   (O)   Upon any street posted "No Parking for Street Cleaning" which sign
shall also contain the times and/or day that parking will be temporarily
prohibited for street cleaning. The Town Council is required by resolution, to
establish a street cleaning schedule, from a time to time, and upon the
adoption upon such resolution signs as required herein shall be posted pursuant
to §
71.05 of the Hamilton Town Code.
('88 Code, § 8-1-7) (Ord. 64-1, passed 6-12-64; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 6-19-
06)
Cross-reference:
   Parking prohibited on specific streets, see
Chapter 73, Parking Schedules
Statutory reference:
   Stopping, standing and parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-16-5
§ 71.02 PARKING NEAR FIRE HYDRANTS.
   There shall be no parking within 15 feet of any fire hydrant in the town.
('88 Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 80-3, passed 10-6-80) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Parking near fire hydrant, see I.C. 9-21-16-5
§ 71.03 LOADING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers, not to exceed three minutes, and for the driver to
stand any freight carrying vehicles for a period of time longer than necessary
to load, unload, and deliver materials, not to exceed 30 minutes, at the
loading zone which is marked as such.
('88 Code, § 8-1-8) (Ord. 64-1, passed 6-12-64) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 MANNER OF PARKING.
   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the
curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park a
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two right
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curb line,
except that upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at an angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
('88 Code, § 8-1-9) (Ord. 64-1, passed 6-12-64) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 SIGNS.
   The Town Council shall authorize persons to cause signs to be posted in all
areas where parking is limited or prohibited, indicating such limitations or
prohibitions.
('88 Code, § 8-1-11) (Ord. 64-1, passed 6-12-64) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 TRUCKS, TRAILERS AND THE LIKE RESTRICTED TO ONE HOUR.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, driver, or operator thereof to permit
any truck, tractor, semi- trailer, trailer, or other freight vehicle to remain
upon any public street in the town, for a longer period than one hour, and then
only if such vehicle is actually being loaded or unloaded. This section shall
not apply to vehicles whose primary function is the carrying of passengers.
('88 Code, § 8-1-13) (Ord. 67-1, passed 5-1-67) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 TOWING OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of any ordinance,
statute, or the town code, the Town Marshal or any Deputy Marshal of the town
is authorized to cause any such vehicle to be towed away by any firm having
towing vehicles equipped to tow any vehicle. Neither the town nor the firm
engaged to do the towing shall in any way be held liable for any damage or loss
of any towed vehicle (or its contents). The vehicle may not be redeemed until
the violator has paid all fees accrued as a result of the towing.
(Ord. 89-9, passed 8-7-89)
§ 71.071 PARKING IN THE TOWN PARKING LOT.
   (A)   The parking lot is hereby deemed to be for parking available to the
public.
   (B)   No person shall leave or park a motor vehicle or permit his or her
vehicle to be left or parked in the parking lot at any time between the hours
of 4:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a semi-trailer, semi-
tractor, truck greater than five tons, school bus, recreational vehicle or any
similar type vehicle in the parking lot.
   (D)   The Town Marshal and any and all of the Deputy Marshals shall have the
authority to cause to be towed any vehicle left or parked upon the parking lot
in violation of the provisions of this section, and the reasonable expense of
such towing and the reasonable charge for storing such vehicle shall be
promptly paid by the person who parked or caused to be parked the vehicle upon
the parking lot and such costs and expenses shall be a lien upon the vehicle
and shall be paid before the vehicle is released to the owner.
   (E)   For each and every violation of this section, a penalty of $25 shall
be assessed and imposed upon the owner/operator for such violation, which
penalty shall be paid to the office of the Clerk- Treasurer within 14 days of
the date of the assessment. If not paid within 14 days of the assessment, the
violation shall be processed through the Ordinance Violations Bureau and the
town shall be permitted to request a judgement against such violator in the sum
of $50 per violation plus reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   (F)   The adopting of this section shall not prohibit the Town Council from,
in the future, changing the use of the parking lot of a part of the parking lot
from parking to some other use as deemed appropriate by the Town Council.
   (G)   All vehicles entering into the parking lot shall enter by way of
Bellefontaine Road and shall exit by way of Church Street. Any person, firm or
corporation found operating a vehicle in violation of the provisions in this
section shall be subject to a fine of $25 for the first offense and $100 for
any and all subsequent offenses.
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-3-04; Am. Ord. 2006-03, passed 4-3-06; Am. Ord. 2018-4,
passed 9-4-18)
§ 71.072 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING A SNOW EMERGENCY
   (A)   Determining and declaring a snow emergency.
      (1)   Basis for determination. A snow emergency may be determined
whenever the Town Council President or his/her designee hereinafter
collectively referred to as "President" or "the President" after consultation
with the Town Manager, Town Marshal and the head of the Street Department, find
on the basis of falling snow, sleet, freezing rain or on the basis of a
forecast by the National Weather Service, that weather conditions will or could
make it necessary that motor vehicle parking and or travel be forbidden or
restricted as further provided in this section.
      (2)   Commencement of snow emergency. A snow emergency shall commence by
announcement by the President, which shall issued to local radio and other news
services, either before, during or after a weather condition may prevail, when
in his or her sound judgment and discretion the circumstances warrant the
determination of such an emergency for the public safety of the town. The snow
emergency shall continue in effect until the President determines that an
emergency no longer exists, and accordingly terminates the emergency, using the
same media as before.
   (B)   Parking and travel restrictions. The President in a snow emergency
shall have the authority to do the following:
      (1)   Restrict parking upon any streets and alleys that are dedicated to
the public use and upon all town parking lots.
      (2)   Prohibit parking upon any and all streets and alleys that are
dedicated to the public use and upon all town parking lots.
      (3)   Limit vehicular traffic within the town to emergency needs, medical
needs, travel for food or supplies, travel to and from places of business or
employment, or to any one of the foregoing. Vehicles used for medical
assistance, law enforcement, fire department, emergency management, public
utility and fuel hauling vehicles and employees of any such services are exempt
from this section if engaged in the performance of their duties.
   (C)   Removal and towing.
      (1)   All vehicles violating the provisions of this section are subject
to removal by towing or other means at the expense of the owner of the vehicle,
which expense shall be a lien upon the vehicle when such towing or removal is
deemed necessary by either the Street Department or Town Marshal.
      (2)   The Hamilton Police Department is hereby authorized to retain the
services of a properly licensed and qualified vehicle towing operator to remove
any vehicle found in violation of this section, at the sole cost and expense of
the owner of such vehicle.
   (D)   Abandonment or unlawful parking. Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled
for any reason on any part of a street or alley dedicated to the public in a
town parking lot on which there is a parking or travel restriction or
prohibition in effect, the operator of the vehicle shall take emergency action
to have the vehicle removed from the roadway in whatever manner may be
necessary. In the event that a vehicle is cited, removed or impounded during
the absence of the operator, pursuant to the provisions of this section, the
driver shall have abandoned the vehicle at his own peril.
   (E)   Removal, impoundment and return of vehicles.
      (1)   Officers of the Police Department are authorized to remove or have
removed a vehicle found in violation of this section or any provision of the
law, and which is interfering or about to interfere with snow removal
operations, and have such vehicle towed to a garage or other place of storage.
      (2)   In the event that it is deemed by any law enforcement officer of
the town that a vehicle shall be towed, the officer shall issue a parking
ticket, mark the ticket "snow emergency violation," place the ticket in a
conspicuous location on the vehicle, and then order the vehicle towed. The
officer will, through the vehicle registration or other means, attempt to
identify and locate and notify the owner of the vehicle removal, and the means
of gaining the return of the vehicle. In the event the officer cannot identify
the owner within 72 hours, the officer will make the necessary notification to
the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 3-1-04; Am. Ord. 2014-6, passed 11-3-14)
REGULATION OF JUNK VEHICLES
§ 71.08 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Shall include the following.
      (1)   Any vehicle, including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks,
motorcycles, UTVs, golf carts and watercraft of all types and shall also
include trailers for these vehicles. A junk vehicles is a vehicle which:
         (a)   Has not been moved for ten consecutive days from the same
location and is not registered or plated and is not in a garage or other
building. A garage or other building does not include a tarp, plastic sheeting
or any other similar material of impermanent means that are used to cover a
motor vehicle. A garage or other building as contemplated in this subchapter is
given its ordinary meaning;
         (b)   Does not have the appearance of or contain all of the parts and
accessories of the same make and model automobile when manufactured and
assembled by the manufacturer, or is partially dismantled;
         (c)   Does not have the appearance of being operative or safe for its
intended use, such as, but not limited to, travel upon roadways, off-road
travel, use on a body of water; or
         (d)   Is located in an area not properly zoned as junk buildings, junk
shops or junk yards.
      (2)   Any one or all of the above criteria may be used in making a
determination that vehicle is a junk vehicle.
(Ord. 2000-07, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2013-1, passed 3-4-13)
§ 71.09 DECLARED TO BE PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Because of the danger to health from vermin, rodents and insects and to the
safety of children attracted by junk vehicles, junk vehicles are declared to be
nuisances except if located in lawfully operated junk yards, or yards lawfully
operated for vehicles awaiting permission for junking from the Bureau of Motor
vehicles.
(Ord. 2000-07, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2013-1, passed 3-4-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 AUTHORITY TO ORDER REMOVAL OF JUNK VEHICLE.
   The Town Marshal or any Deputy Marshal, Zoning Administrator or Code
Enforcement Officer may order a junk vehicle removed from any premises in the
town within five days after service and posting as provided in §
71.11.
(Ord. 2000-07, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-5-02; Am. Ord. 2013-1,
passed 3-4-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   The order to remove the junk vehicle shall be placed upon the junk
car, and copies shall be served upon any adult occupying the real estate on
which the junk vehicle is located and upon the owner of the junk vehicle, if
known.
   (B)   If no occupant of the real estate or owner of the junk vehicle can be
found, a copy of the order affixed to any building on the real estate shall
constitute notice to the owner and occupant of the real estate, and to the
owner of the junk vehicle.
   (C)   If there is no building on the real estate, the order may be affixed
elsewhere on the real estate.
(Ord. 2000-07, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2013-1, passed 3-4-13)
§ 71.12 DISPOSAL OF JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   If the junk vehicle is not removed within the time provided in §
71.10, the owner of the junk vehicle and the occupant and owner of the real
estate upon which it is located shall each, on conviction, be subject to a
penalty of $50. Each day during which the junk vehicle is permitted to remain
and does remain on the real estate after the time fixed in the order shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition, if the junk vehicle is not removed within the time
provided in §
71.10, the Police Department may cause the motor vehicle to be removed at the
expense of the owner of the real estate, which expense shall constitute a lien
on the real estate by proceeding as follows:
      (1)   By issuing a removal order which shall be served as provided under
§
71.11.
      (2)   Before entering the premises upon which the junk vehicle is
located, obtaining through the DeKalb or Steuben Circuit Court or the Dekalb or
Steuben Superior Court, an administrative search warrant for the purpose of
entering the premises and for the purpose of removing the junk vehicle. The
Police Department must have reasonable cause to believe that a violation of
this section has occurred before obtaining the administrative search warrant.
      (3)   Upon obtaining the administrative search warrant, the Police
Department shall serve the search warrant as provided in §
71.11 before the removal of the junk vehicle.
      (4)   The search warrant shall also give the town and the Police
Department the authority to remove the junk vehicle and charge the costs of the
removal to the owner, which costs shall also be a lien on the real estate.
      (5)   This procedure is adopted pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9 as from time to
time amended or replaced and is meant to include the procedures therein.
   (C)   The Police Department may also cause the vehicle to be removed and to
be disposed of in the same manner as now provided by state law for the removal
and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
(Ord. 2000-07, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2003-19, passed 12-1-03; Am. Ord. 2013-
1, passed 3-4-13)
Cross-reference:
   Abatement of nuisances, see §
93.02
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   Yield intersections
   
III.   One-way streets
   
IV.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following shall be stop intersections, with traffic stopping on the
streets indicated.
Stop Street At Intersection With
Stop Street           At Intersection With
Beecher Street        Lake Street
Beecher Street        S. Wayne Street
Bellefountain Road    S. Wayne Street
Brookside Drive       State Road 1
Cameron Drive         Zion Street
Center Street         Lake Street
Center Street         S. Wayne Street
Center Street         Terry Lane
Church Street         Water Street
Church Street         S. Wayne Street
300 East              Bellefountain Road
Enterprise Drive      Lane 150
Enterprise Drive      State Road 1
Fish Creek Trail      Bellefountain Road
Homestead Drive       800 South
Lake Street           Bellefountain Road
Lake Street           Church Street
Lake Street           Railroad Street
Lane 148              State Road 1
Lane 150              State Road 1
Lane 150A             Lane 150
Lane 207              Lane 210
Lane 207              Peninsula Street
Lane 210              At the turn around
Lane 210              Bellefountain Road
Lane 219              Bellefountain Road
Lane 220              Lane 221
Lane 221              Bellefountain Road
Lane 221              300 East
Lane 221B             At the circle turn around going south
Lane 221B             Lane 221
Lane 230              300 East
Lane 270              300 East
Lane 280              300 East
Lane 280A             Lane 280
Lane 280AA            Lane 280A
Lane 280C             Lane 280
Lane 281              Lane 280
Lane 282              Lane 280
Lane 282              Lane 280A
Lane 282A             Lane 282
Lane 282AB            Lane 282
Lane 283              Lane 280
Meadow Lane           Bellefountain Road
Meadow Lane           Lane 230
Mill Street           Woodard Street
Miller Street         Bellefountain Road
Oak Street            S. Wayne Street
Peninsula Street      Bellefountain Road
Railroad Street       S. Wayne Street
Rebeca Street         Woodard Street
Renner Street         Bellefountian Road
Ridgeview Court       Meadow Lane
775 South             Bellefountain Road
Terry Lake Road       County Road 61
Terry Lake Road       S. Wayne Street
5000 Block Terry Lake Terry Lake Road
8000 Block Terry Lake Terry Lake Road
Water Street          Bellefountain Road
Water Street          Church Street
Woodard Street        Bellefountain Road
Zion Street           S. Wayne Street
 
('88 Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 96-1, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 2003-02, passed 4-7-03;
Am. Ord. 2004-16, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 2012-4, passed 9-4-12; Am. Ord. 2013-
11, passed 12-2-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The following are yield intersections, and traffic on the indicated streets
shall yield the right-of-way to traffic on the intersecting street.
 
Street          Yields to
Water Street    Bellefountaine Road
Woodward Street Bellefountaine Road
 
('88 Code, § 8-1-15) (Ord. 67-1, passed 5-1-67) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets are one-way, with traffic moving only in the direction
indicated.
 
Street           Location                                    Direction
Lane 210         Turnaround                                  Northeast bound
Lane 221B        On Turnaround                               Northeast bound
Lane 280         From Lane 280E around the circle until Lane Southeast bound
                 280 again intersects with Lane 280E
Lake Street      North of West Bellefountain Road            North bound
West Mill Street Between Woodard and Bellefountain Road      West bound
 
('88 Code, § 8-1-17) (Ord. 88-2, passed 2-1-88; Am. Ord. 2012-4, passed 9-4-12;
Am. Ord. 2013-7, passed 9-3-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or cause to be driven any vehicle at a speed
greater than that indicated on any of the following streets:
Street Location Speed Limit (m.p.h.)
Street                 Location                            Speed Limit (m.p.h.)
Beecher Street         From Lake Street to Water Street    25
Bellefountaine Road    West corporate line (town limit)    40
                       east to Lane 221 (Homestead Drive)
Bellefountaine Road    From Lane 221 (Homestead Drive)     35
                       east to Lane 210
Bellefountaine Road    From Lane 210 to 1,000 feet east of 30
                       Miller Street
Brookside                                                  25
Cameron Drive                                              25
Center Street          From Lake to Center Court           25
Church Street          From Woodard Street to Water Street 25
Enterprise Drive                                           20
Homestead Drive        From Bellefountaine Road to C.R. 4  30
Lake / Lake Street     From C.R. 4 to Oak Street           25
Lake / Lake Street     From Zion Street to Mill Street     25
Ln. 140                From S.R. 1 to Ln. 120              25
Ln. 148 / Stone Street                                     25
                       Beginning at the intersection of
                       Lane 150 and S.R. 1 and thence
                       continuing west on Lane 150 and
Ln. 150                ultimately continuing south on Lane 25
                       150 2,149 feet to a point on Lane
                       150 which point shall be marked by
                       a sign indicating the beginning of
                       a 20 m.p.h. speed limit.
Ln. 150A                                                   25
Ln. 150C                                                   25
Ln. 150D                                                   25
Ln. 150DA                                                  25
Ln. 150E                                                   25
Ln. 150F                                                   25
Ln. 150G                                                   25
Ln. 150H                                                   25
Ln. 150I                                                   25
Ln. 150J                                                   25
Ln. 207                                                    25
Ln. 210                                                    20
Ln. 212                                                    25
Ln. 215                                                    25
Ln. 216                                                    25
Ln. 217                                                    25
Ln. 219                                                    25
Ln. 220                                                    25
Ln. 221                                                    20
221AB                                                      25
Ln. 221AC                                                  25
Ln. 221B and Ln. 221BA                                     20
Ln. 221C                                                   25
Ln. 230                                                    25
Ln. 250                                                    25
Ln. 270                                                    25
Ln. 270A                                                   25
Ln. 280                East of 300 East                    25
Ln. 280A                                                   25
Ln. 280AA                                                  25
Ln. 280B                                                   25
Ln. 280E                                                   25
Ln. 281                                                    25
Ln. 283                                                    25
300 E                  From Bellefountaine Road to Lane    35
                       280
300 E                  From Lane 280 to 600 S              50
300 E                  From 600 S to town corporate line   40
Meadow Ln.                                                 25
E. Mill Street         From Lake to Woodward               25
E. Mill Street         From Renner to Water                25
Miller Street                                              25
Oak Street                                                 25
Peninsula Street                                           25
Railroad Street        From S.R. 427 to 900 feet west of   30
                       Depot Place
Rebecca Street                                             25
Renner Street                                              25
Ridgeview Court                                            25
Terry Lake Road                                            30
Terry Street                                               25
Water Street                                               25
Woodward                                                   25
Zion Street                                                25
 
   (B)   The Police Department is hereby directed to erect or cause to be
erected signs consistent with the terms of this schedule.
(Ord. 92-3, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord. 2004-17, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 2011-2,
passed 6-6-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited at all times
   
II.   Parking time limited
   
III.   Handicapped parking
   
IV.   Parallel parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   It is unlawful to park any vehicle in any of the following locations.
 
Street                Side         Location
Bellefountaine Street North        Within 15 feet east of the intersection of
                                   Bellefountaine Street and Wayne Street
                                   From the corner of Bellefountaine and
Bellefountaine Street North        Peninsula Streets to a point 90 feet east of
                                   the intersection
Church Street         North        Within 12 feet east of the intersection of
                                   Church Street and Wayne Street
Peninsula Street                  From Lily Dale Drive to Bellefountaine
Wayne Street          East or West Within 20 feet north of the intersection of
                                   Wayne Street and Church Street
Wayne Street          East         Within 19 feet south of the intersection of
                                   Wayne Street and Bellefountaine Street
 
('88 Code, §§ 8-1-6, 8-1-7) (Ord. 64-1, passed 6-12-64; Ord. 81-5, passed - -
81; Ord. 89-5, passed 7-3-89) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   Parking shall be restricted as follows:
Street Side Location Limitation
Street          Side  Location                                 Limitation
                                                               No parking
Church Street   South The first 30 feet of the street east of  longer than 15
                      Wayne Street                             consecutive
                                                               minutes
                                                               Parking limited
East                                                           to 2 consecutive
Bellefountaine       From Wayne Street to Water Street        hours between 9:
Street                                                         00 a.m. and 6:00
                                                               p.m.
                                                               Parking limited
Rebecca Street  Both                                          to 2 consecutive
                                                               hours
South Wayne           From Beecher Street south to the Norfolk No parking from
Street          East  & Western Railroad right-of-way          8:00 a.m. to 5:
                                                               00 p.m.
                                                               No parking
South Wayne     East  First 30 feet of the street south of     longer than 15
Street                Church Street                            consecutive
                                                               minutes
                      The second parking space south of Church No parking
State Road 427        Street (parking in this space shall not  longer than 15
(Wayne Street)  East  be deemed a violation of §§            consecutive
                      71.01(D) or                              minutes
                      71.02)
                                                               Parking limited
                                                               to 2 consecutive
Wayne Street         From Bellefountaine to Church Street     hours between 9:
                                                               00 a.m. and 6:00
                                                               p.m.
                                                               Parking limited
West                                                           to 2 consecutive
Bellefountaine       From Lake Street to Wayne Street         hours between 9:
Street                                                         00 a.m. and 6:00
                                                               p.m.
West Mill                                                      Parking limited
Street          Both                                          to 2 consecutive
                                                               hours
                                                               Parking limited
Woodward Street West                                          to 2 consecutive
                                                               hours
 
('88 Code, §§ 8-1-3, 8-1-10, 8-1-16) (Ord. 64-1, passed 6-12-64; Ord. 80-3,
passed 10-6-80; Ord. 88-3, passed 2-1-88; Ord. 92-3, passed 6-1-92; Am. Ord.
2003-18, passed 11-3-03) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   The first parking space on the east side of State Road 427 (Wayne
Street) south of Church shall be for handicapped parking only for those persons
having business within Town Hall.
   (B)   In order to use the handicapped parking space, the vehicle must have
the appropriate handicapped parking tag as issued by the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles.
   (C)   The use of the handicapped parking space as provided in division (B)
shall not be deemed a violation of §§
71.01(D),
71.01(J) or
71.02.
(Ord. 2003-17, passed 11-3-03)
SCHEDULE IV. PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   Parallel parking shall be permitted on the north side of East
Bellefontaine Street from the intersection of Bellefontaine Street and State
Road 427 west to the western boundary of the Hamilton House Restaurant
property.
   (B)   The Police Department and Street Department are directed to erect
signs and/or pavement markings consistent with this schedule.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 10-3-16)
CHAPTER 74: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
74.01   Short title
   
74.02   Definitions
   
74.03   Responsibility, liability of vehicle owner
   
74.04   Exemptions
   
74.05   Charges for towing and storage of abandoned vehicles
   
74.06   Vehicles abandoned during snow emergencies
Impoundment; Redemption Procedures
   
74.10   Authority to impound
   
74.11   Notice to state of impoundment required
   
74.12   Notice tag to be placed on vehicle by police officer
   
74.13   Release of vehicle to owner before final disposition
   
74.14   Disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
74.15   Abandoned vehicle fund
   
74.16   Additional regulations may be enacted by town
   
74.17   Exemptions from liability
   
74.18   Abandoned vehicle on private or rental properties
 
   
74.99   Penalty
   Appendix: Abandoned vehicle enforcement process
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 74.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Abandoned Vehicle
chapter.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Shall include the following:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for three days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the property owner or persons in control of the property for more than 48
hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission, or differential, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperative and left on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than
this chapter if the vehicle, once impounded, is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or his agent within 15 days of its removal; or
      (7)   A vehicle that is mechanically inoperable, and is left on private
property continuously in a location visible from public property for more than
30 days.
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
   BUREAU. The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
   OFFICER. Shall include the following:
      (1)   The Town Marshal or any Deputy Town Marshal.
      (2)   Any individual of the Town designated by ordinance of the Town
Council.
   OWNER. The last known record title holder of a vehicle according to the
records of the Bureau under I.C. 9-1-2-1 et seq.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, fiduciary, or
governmental entity.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The Town Council.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, sidewalk,
park, or other municipal property.
   TOWING SERVICE. A business that engages in moving, removing, storing, and
impounding disabled vehicles.
   VEHICLE. An automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle, camper, or motorized bicycle.
   VISIBLE FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY. A vehicle which can be seen from public
property, and this includes vehicles which have been covered by an impermanent
covering that allows the form or the outline of the vehicle to remain visible
from public property
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.03 RESPONSIBILITY LIABILITY OR VEHICLE OWNER.
   The person who owns an abandoned vehicle or parts is responsible for the
abandonment and liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage
and disposal of the vehicle or the parts under this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to the following vehicles:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately- owned raceways.
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment.
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility.
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard.
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under the appropriate Indiana
statute as an antique motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.05 CHARGES FOR TOWING AND STORAGE OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   The following schedule of charges is hereby adopted by the town for towing
and storage of abandoned vehicles:
   Towing to one location within the town limits:   $30
   Storage fees:                  $6/day
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.06 VEHICLES ABANDONED DURING SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   Any vehicle found parked or stalled or incapable of moving on streets posted
as snow emergency routes during a declared snow emergency shall be considered
an abandoned vehicle, subject to removal under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
IMPOUNDMENT; REDEMPTION PROCEDURES
§ 74.10 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person other than
the person who owns the vehicle and the person cannot establish the right to
possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.11 NOTICE TO STATE OF IMPOUNDMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall be notified within 72 hours
of the location and description of a vehicle described in §
74.10 of this chapter.
   (B)   If the person who owns the vehicle cannot be determined by the State
Bureau search, the Bureau shall declare the vehicle abandoned and disposal may
then be provided for as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.12 NOTICE TAG TO BE PLACED ON VEHICLE BY TOWN MARSHAL OR ANY DEPUTY TOWN
MARSHAL.
   (A)   An officer who finds a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned shall
attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer's name, town and address and telephone
number to contact for information.
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned.
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal, and if the costs
are not paid, the person's registration privileges will be suspended on the
vehicle.
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
   (B)   If a vehicle or part tagged under division (A) above is not removed
within the 72-hour period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned
vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on condition,
missing parts, and other facts that might substantiate the estimated market
value of the vehicle or parts. Photographs shall be taken to describe the
condition of the vehicle or parts.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.13 RELEASE OF VEHICLE TO OWNER BEFORE FINAL DISPOSITION.
   (A)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts
and pays all costs incurred against the vehicle or parts at that time, the
vehicle or parts shall be released.
   (B)   A copy of the release of a vehicle or parts issued under division (A)
above shall be sent to the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles. The release must
state the name, signature, and address of the person who owns or holds a lien
on the vehicle, a description of the vehicle or parts, and date of release.
   (C)   If the person who owns or holds a lien under division (A) above does
not appear and pay all costs, the Bureau shall declare the vehicle abandoned
and may be provided for as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.14 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts determined under §
74.12(B) is less than $500, the officer shall immediately dispose of the
vehicle to an automobile scrapyard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and
photographs relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles. The town or towing agency disposing of the vehicle
shall retain the original records and photographs for at least two years.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts determined under §
74.12(B) is at least $500, the officer, before placing a notice tag on the
vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person who
owns the vehicle or parts, or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a
storage area.
   (C)   If a vehicle or parts are in such a condition that vehicle
identification numbers or other means of identification are not available to
determine the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, the vehicle may
be disposed of without notice.
   (D)   Abandoned vehicle report.
      (1)   Within 72 hours after removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage
area under this section, the town or towing agency shall prepare and forward to
the State Bureau an abandoned vehicle report containing a description of the
vehicle, including the following information concerning the vehicle:
         (a)   The make.
         (b)   The model.
         (c)   The engine number, if any.
         (d)   The identification number.
         (e)   The number of the license plate.
      (2)   The town or towing agency shall request that the Bureau advise as
to the name and most recent address of the person who owns or holds a lien on
the vehicle.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.15 ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND.
   (A)   An Abandoned Vehicle Fund is hereby established as required under I.C.
9-22-1-30.
   (B)   The costs of removal and storage of an abandoned vehicle or parts not
claimed by the person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle shall be paid from
the Abandoned Vehicle Fund. The charge payable by the person who owns or holds
a lien on a vehicle for towing, storing, or removing an abandoned vehicle or
parts may not exceed the limits established by ordinance of the town.
   (C)   The proceeds from the sale of abandoned vehicles or parts, including
the charges for bills for sale, and money received from persons who own or hold
liens on vehicles for the cost of removal or storage of vehicles, shall be
deposited with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and placed by him or her in the
Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
      (1)   The costs incurred by any authorized towing agency in administering
this chapter shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
      (2)   The Town Council shall annually appropriate sufficient money to the
Fund to carry out this chapter. Money remaining in the Fund at the end of a
year remains in the Fund and does not revert to the General Fund.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.16 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS MAY BE ENACTED BY THE TOWN.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property, and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage, and disposition of abandoned
vehicles and parts. The Town Council may establish additional procedures, by
ordinance, to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.17 EXEMPTIONS FROM LIABILITY.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal, storage or disposition of a vehicle or parts
under this chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases or occupies property from which an abandoned
vehicle or parts are removed.
   (B)   The town.
   (C)   An automobile scrapyard.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.18 ABANDONED VEHICLE ON PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTIES.
   The procedure to be followed for abandoned vehicles on private or rental
properties shall be as set forth in I.C. 9-22-1-15 through 9-22-1-18.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
deemed guilty of an offense and fined not less than $25 for the first offense,
not less than $100 for a second offense, and not less than $200 for all
subsequent offenses, but no fine shall exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-7-00)
APPENDIX: ABANDONED VEHICLE ENFORCEMENT PROCESS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1186a5606a3dc7da476ee707a5b1a5d1434efbc9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-918.png]
(Ord . 2000 -08, pass ed 8-7- 00)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   OPEN BURNING
      
96.   CONSUMER FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   General provisions and definitions
   
90.02   Running at large; animals to be leashed or confined
   
90.03   Barking or howling dogs
   
90.04   Defecation on public or private property
   
90.05   Animal owner liable for damage to public property
   
90.06   Abandoning animals
   
90.07   Cruelty to animals
   
90.08   Reserved
   
90.09   Special requirements for vicious animals
   
90.10   Animals prohibited
   
90.11   Police powers
   
90.12   Vaccination requirements
   
90.13   Farm animals and domestic animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any and all types of animals, both domesticated and wild, male and
female, singular and plural.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or a member of the owner's immediate family, either by leash, cord, chain
or otherwise.
   DANGEROUS or VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal that has a known vicious propensity, tendency or
disposition to act unprovoked, cause injury or otherwise threaten the safety of
a human being or other domestic animal;
      (2)   Any animal which because of its vicious propensity is capable of
inflicting serious physical harm or death to humans which would constitute a
danger to human life or property if it were not kept up in the manner required
by this chapter;
      (3)   Any animal which, without provocation, attacks or bites or has
attacked or bitten a human being or domestic animal; or
      (4)   A dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of dog
fighting or any dog trained for dog fighting.
      (5)   A DANGEROUS or VICIOUS ANIMAL does not include a POLICE DOG.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing
or harboring or having the care or custody of an animal.
   POLICE DOG. A dog that has been trained and may be used to assist one or
more law enforcement officers in the performance of his, her or their official
duties, that has caused or approached in either a menacing fashion or an
apparent attitude of attack, or has attempted to fight or otherwise endanger,
any person while the POLICE DOG is being used to assist one or more law
enforcement officers in the performance of his, her or their official duties.
   UNCONFINED. A vicious animal is unconfined if the animal is not securely
confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure
upon the premises of the owner of the animal. The pen or structure should have
secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. If the pen or structure
has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be imbedded below the
surface of the ground no less than one foot. All such pens or structures shall
be adequately lighted and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 11-3-03)
Cross-reference:
   Prohibition against animal fighting, see §
90.10.
§ 90.02 RUNNING AT LARGE; ANIMALS TO BE LEASHED OR CONFINED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any animal
within the town to permit the animal to go beyond the premises of the owner,
keeper or harborer at any time unless the animal is properly on a leash, with a
leash not to exceed six feet in length.
   (B)   The owner, keeper or harborer of every animal within the town shall at
all times keep the animal confined so that it cannot stray beyond the premises
of the owner, keeper or harborer.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 11-3-03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or harbor any dog or any other animal within the
town which, by frequent and habitual barking, howling or yelping, creates
unreasonable, loud and disturbing noises of such a character, intensity and
duration as to disturb the peace, quiet and good order of the town.
   (B)   Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or
fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure, which he or she occupies
or owns, shall be considered as harboring the dog.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 11-3-03) Penalty, see §
90.99 
§ 90.04 DEFECATION ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any dog, cat or other animal shall
knowingly permit the animal to defecate on the property, either public or
private, of another without the owner, keeper or harborer having in his or her
possession the necessary tools or equipment to remove the defecation.
   (B)   The owner, keeper or harborer shall use the necessary tools and
equipment to remove defecation from the property forthwith.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 11-3-03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ANIMAL OWNER LIABLE FOR DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The owner, keeper or harborer of any dog which damages or destroys parks or
public property shall be held liable for the full value of the property damaged
or destroyed in addition to any penalty imposed for a violation of this
chapter.  
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 11-3-03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat or other domestic animal shall abandon the
animal.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 11-3-03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Overwork, overdrive, overload or torture an animal, deprive one of
necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or
kill, or impound or confine an animal without supplying it during the
confinement with a sufficient quantity of good wholesome food and water;
   (B)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow or excessive direct
sunlight if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This division does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
division, “shelter” means a man-made enclosure, windbreak, sunshade or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, true
development or vegetation;
   (C)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner; or
   (D)   Keep an animal in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change
of air.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 11-3-03) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Prohibition against animal fighting, see §
90.10.
§ 90.08 RESERVED.
§ 90.09 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Confinement period. The owner of a vicious animal shall not suffer or
permit the animal to go unconfined.
   (B)   Leash and muzzle. The owner of a vicious animal shall not suffer or
permit the animal to go beyond the premises of the owner unless the animal is
securely muzzled and restrained by a chain or leash, and under the physical
restraint of a person. The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will not cause
injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration, but shall
prevent it from biting any human or animal.
   (C)   Signs required for vicious animal on premises. The owner of a vicious
animal shall display in a prominent place on his or her premises a clearly
visible sign indicating that there is a vicious animal on the premises. A
similar sign is required to be posted on the pen or kennel of the animal.
   (D)   Insurance required. The owner of a vicious animal must provide proof
to the Clerk-Treasurer of public liability insurance in the amount of at least
$100,000 insuring the owner for any personal injury inflicted by his or her
vicious animal.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 11-3-03) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-references:
   Prohibition against animal fighting, see §
90.10.
   Vicious animal defined, see §
90.01.
§ 90.10 ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall own or harbor any animal for the purpose of fighting
and no person shall train, torment, badger, bait of use any animal for the
purpose of fighting or for the purpose of causing or encouraging the animal
into an unprovoked attack upon a human being or domestic animal.
   (B)   No owner shall keep, harbor or provide sustenance for more than one
vicious animal.
   (C)   Lack of knowledge or lack of intent is not a defense to a violation of
this section.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 11-3-03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal and all deputy marshals (collectively referred to in
this section as the Town Marshal) shall have the power and authority to impound
any animal found running at large. The Town Marshal shall in addition have the
authority to cause the animal to be transported to and held by any humane
shelter operating with Steuben or DeKalb County for any required period of
detention in the case of an animal bite or for such other period consistent
with the rules and regulations of the shelter. Upon expiration of the period,
the humane shelter shall take such action for the disposal of the animal as is
consistent with its rules, regulations and procedures.
   (B)   An animal that has been impounded by the Town Marshal is not to be
released to the owner unless a detention fee of $25 has been paid by the owner
to the town and also the fees and costs customarily charged by the shelter or
incurred by the shelter have been paid in full by the owner.
   (C)   The Town Marshal shall keep accurate records of the impounding and
releasing of animals and the records shall be examined annually by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 11-3-03)
§ 90.12 VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If a dog is believed to have rabies or has been bitten by a dog
suspected of having rabies, such dog shall be confined by a leash or chain on
the owner's premises and shall be placed under observation of a veterinarian at
the expense of the owner for a period of two weeks. The owner shall notify the
police of the fact that his or her dog has been exposed to rabies, and at his
or her discretion, the police are empowered to have such dog removed from the
owner's premises to a veterinary hospital and there placed under observation
for a period of two weeks at the expense of the owner.
   (B) It shall be unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting a dog has
rabies to allow such dog to be taken off the premises or beyond the limits of
the town without the written permission of the police. Every owner or other
person, upon ascertaining a dog is rabid, shall immediately notify the Town
Marshal who shall either remove the dog to the pound or summarily destroy it.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 11-3-03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 FARM ANIMALS AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   General regulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to have,
keep, harbor or otherwise maintain within the corporate limits of the town any
non-domestic animal (farm animal), predatory birds, chickens or bees except as
provided in this chapter. The term non-domestic animal is deemed to include
miniature animals such as miniature horses, miniature goats, et cetera that do
not exceed 34-inches in height measured from the ground to the shoulders of the
animal.
   (B)   Regulations. The following regulations apply to small farm animals and
domestic animals.
      (1)   The keeping of small farm animals such as ducks, rabbits and
similar smaller sized farm animals and the cages and enclosures therefor are
subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   For those dwelling units or business establishments which are
situated upon a lot of less than 20,000 square feet, no more than three smaller
sized non-domestic farm animals are allowed (ducks, rabbits, etc.) for each
dwelling unit or business establishment.
         (b)   For those dwelling units or business establishments that are
located upon a lot of 20,000 square feet or more, up to four of such animals
are allowed.
         (c)   For each additional 5,000 square feet of lot area in excess of
20,000 square feet, one more animal is permitted (for example, a lot of 25,000
square feet permits five animals).
      (2)   The keeping of domestic animals (cats, dogs, etc.) which are to be
tethered or kenneled outside of a dwelling unit or business establishment are
subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   For those dwelling units or business establishments which are
situated upon a lot of less than 20,000 square feet, no more than three
domestic animals may be tethered or kenneled outside of the dwelling unit or
business establishment.
         (b)   For each dwelling unit or business establishment situated on a
lot of 20,000 square feet or more, four small domestic animals are permitted to
be tethered or kenneled outside.
         (c)   For each 5,000 square feet of lot area in excess of 20,000
square feet, one additional small domestic animal is permitted.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(1) and (2) above, the maximum number
of small farm animals and domestic animals in any combination thereof, which
may be tethered, cooped, kenneled or caged outside of a dwelling unit is three
and outside of a business establishment is three on lots of less than 20,000
square feet. The maximum number increases by one for each additional 5,000
square feet of lot area in excess of 20,000 square feet.
      (4)   This division does not apply to chickens which are addressed in
division (C) below.
      (5)   The following enclosure requirements apply to miniature non-
domestic animals: For one miniature non-domestic animal there shall be a secure
enclosure of a minimum of 10,000 square feet. And for each additional miniature
non-domestic animal there shall be an additional 5,000 square feet. There shall
be no structures within the enclosure.
   (C)   Chickens. The following regulations shall apply to chickens.
      (1)   Laying chickens are permitted within the corporate limits of the
town. All other chickens, including meat birds, are prohibited.
      (2)   Up to eight chickens may be kept on any lot in addition to other
small size animals allowed by this section.
      (3)   On lots greater than 10,000 square feet that also include a
community garden or an urban farm, one additional chicken is permitted for
every 1,000 square feet of lot area in excess of 10,000 square feet.
      (4)   Any structure housing chickens shall not be located within ten feet
of a side yard line and shall not be located within ten feet of a rear yard
line, this being a ten foot setback for such structures. No coops or cages
shall be allowed in a front yard.
   (D)   Predatory birds. It shall be unlawful for any person to have, keep,
harbor, or otherwise maintain within the corporate limits of the town any
predatory bird or roosters, all of which are specifically prohibited.
   (E)   Bees. The keeping of bees, and associated beehives, shall be governed
by the following regulations.
      (1)   Number. No more than two beehives shall be kept on any one parcel.
      (2)   Locations and setbacks. No beehive shall be kept closer than five
feet to any lot line and ten feet to a dwelling or the permitted placement of a
dwelling on another parcel, and no beehive shall be kept in a required front
yard or side street yard. The front of any beehive shall face away from the
property line of the residential property closest to the beehive.
      (3)   Fences and shrubs. A solid fence or dense hedge, known as a "flyway
barrier", at least five feet in height, shall be placed along the side of the
beehive that contains the entrance to the hive, and shall be located within ten
feet of the hive and shall extend at least two feet on either side of the hive.
No such flyway barrier shall be required if all beehives are located at least
20 feet from all property lines and for beehives that are located on porches or
balconies at least ten feet above grade, except if such porch or balcony is
located less than five feet from a property line.
      (4)   Water supply. A supply of fresh water shall be maintained in a
location readily accessible to all bee colonies on the site throughout the day
to prevent bees from congregating at neighboring swimming pools or other
sources of water on nearby properties.
      (5)   Prohibitions. No Africanized bees may be kept on a property under
the regulations of this section.
   (F)   Coops and cages. All animals shall be provided with a covered,
predator-proof coop or cage or other shelter that is thoroughly ventilated,
designed to be easily accessed and cleaned, and of sufficient size to permit
free movement of the animals, exclusive of areas used for storage of materials
or vehicles.
   (G)   Enclosure and fences. Chickens shall have access to an outdoor
enclosure adequately fenced or otherwise bounded to contain the chickens on the
property and to prevent access by dogs and other predators and providing at
least ten square feet of area for each chicken.
   (H)   Animals prohibited. It is hereby declared a nuisance for any person
have, keep, harbor, or otherwise maintain within the corporate limits of the
town any horses, cattle, hogs, sheep, jacks, jennets, mules, or geese. These
nuisances shall be abated pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 93 of the
Hamilton Town Code.
   (I)   Penalty. The penalty provisions of §
90.99 of the Hamilton Town Code shall apply to the provisions of this section.
Also, violations of this section including, but not limited to, any noxious
odors relating to animals, coops, cages, enclosures and fences shall be deemed
a nuisance and subject to the provisions of §§
93.01 et seq. of the Hamilton Town Code.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 11-3-14; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 9-26-16)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department who or which
violates any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to a
fine of $100 for the first offense; $200 for a second offense; and $500 for a
third or subsequent offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   In addition, any dangerous or vicious animal which attacks a human
being or other domestic animal may be ordered destroyed when, in the court’s
judgment, the dangerous or vicious animal represents a continuing threat of
serious harm to human beings or other domestic animals.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter
shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food and veterinary expenses
necessitated by the seizure of any animal for the protection of the public and
such other expense as may be required for the destruction of the animal.
   (D)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall also be
considered a nuisance, and in addition to all of the remedies and penalties
provided under this section, the remedies and penalties provided in Chapter 93.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 11-3-03)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisance penalties, see §
93.99
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Regulations
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Hours for parks and public lands
   
91.03   Prohibited acts
   
91.04   Motor vehicle regulations
   
91.05   Property lines
   
91.06   Regulating the use of the Fish Creek Trail
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Recreation Board, see §
32.08
Statutory reference:
   Authority to operate public parks, see I.C. 36-10-2-2
   Park and Recreation Law, see I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq.
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE. A device that is capable of providing an inhalable
dose of nicotine or any other substance intended for human consumption by
delivering a vaporized solution that can be used by a person to simulate
smoking through inhalation of vapor or aerosol from the device. The term
includes the components and cartridges.
      (1)   E-CIGS or E-CIGARETTES. Other terms used to refer to electronic
cigarettes.
      (2)   E-LIQUID. A substance that:
         (a)   May or may not contain nicotine; and
         (b)   Is intended to be vaporized and inhaled using a vapor product.
      (3)   ELECTRONIC WATER PIPE. A device that is capable of providing an
inhalable dose of nicotine or any other substance through water intended for
human consumption by delivering a vaporized solution that can be used by a
person to simulate smoking through inhalation of vapor or aerosol from the
device.
      (4)   VAPING. The process of inhalation or exhalation of the electronic
cigarette, e-cigs, electronic water pipe, and vaporizers.
      (5)   VAPOR PRODUCT. A powered vaporizer that converts e-liquid to a
vapor intended for inhalation through an electronic cigarette or an electronic
water pipe.
      (6)   VAPORIZER. A device like an electronic cigarette that is used to
inhale the e-liquid.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Any vehicle including on-road and off-road vehicles such as
automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles such as four-wheel drive vehicles,
motorcycles, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, or power-driven bicycles which
are primarily or secondarily propelled by a motor, an engine, or a power plant
of any kind. Motor scooters and other power driven vehicles all fall within
this definition.
   PARKS or PUBLIC LANDS. Any property owned by the town or any of its agencies
or subdivisions. Testimony of any police officer or other qualified town
employee or official shall create a presumption of town ownership of the
property. The court may also take judicial notice of town ownership of the
property.
   ROAD. An area designed and designated for the use of an automobile by the
town. No tracks, paths, or other ways by a person or persons or other means
shall constitute a ROAD.
(Ord. 91-3-1, passed 12-2-91; Am. Ord. 07-2023, passed 9-5-23)
§ 91.02 HOURS FOR PARKS AND PUBLIC LANDS.
   (A)   All parks, public lands and beaches within the jurisdiction of the
town shall be closed between dusk to dawn daily.
   (B)   This restriction shall not apply to an officially-sponsored activity
or authorized special activity, such as a little league baseball game or a
girls' baseball game, which may last beyond the hours of closing. In that event
the facility involved shall be closed as soon as possible after the activity is
over.
   (C)   These hours may be amended from time to time by a rule by the Board of
Directors of the Department of Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 91-3-1, passed 12-2-91; Am. Ord. 07-2023, passed 9-5-23)
§ 91.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation using the
parks or public lands to perform or permit to be performed any of the following
acts:
      (1)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, displace,
or remove any building, bridge, paving, paving material, any waterline or other
public utility or appurtenance thereof; sign, notice, or placard, whether
temporary or permanent; monument, stake, post, or other boundary marker; tree,
bush, shrub, flower, grass, plant, or any other landscaping of any kind or
character; or other structure, equipment, facility, park property and public
lands, or appurtenance whatsoever, either real or personal.
      (2)   Throw, discard, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, or other body of water in or
adjacent to any park or public land or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or
drain flowing into the water, any substance, matter, or thing, liquid or solid,
which will or may result in the pollution of the waters.
      (3)   Bring and dump or deposit any garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse
into any park or onto any public lands.
      (4)   Endanger the safety of any person by any misconduct or act.
      (5)   Carry, possess, or use any alcoholic beverages, illegal drugs,
smoking products, electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes, e-cigs, electronic water
pipes), vaporizers and vapor products, controlled substances, fires, or
fireworks in any park or public lands.
      (6)   Violate any rule for the use of any park or public lands, made or
approved by the Board of Directors of the Department of Parks and Recreation.
      (7)   Prevent any person from using any park or public lands, or any of
their facilities, or interfere with such use in compliance with this chapter
and the rules applicable to use.
      (8)   Bring any dangerous animal into any park or public lands or permit
any dog to be in any park unless such dog is on a leash not more than six feet
long. The Park Superintendent or police officer or other town official is
authorized to take up and impound any animal found in violation of this
section.
      (9)   The activity of any person in a loud, boisterous or disorderly
manner so as to disturb the peace and quiet of any neighborhood, public ground,
another person, or group of persons by loud or unusual noise, or by tumultuous
or offensive behavior, including but not limited to threatening, traducing,
quarreling, or challenging to fight. Such behavior shall be deemed a violation
of this section.
      (10)   Swim, bathe, or wade in any water or waterways in or adjacent to
any park or public lands, except in such waters and at such places as are
therefor provided and in compliance with the regulations as herein set forth or
may be thereafter adopted.
      (11)   No glass bottles at any of the parks. Skateboards, bikes and
rollerblades are prohibited on the tennis and pickleball courts.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to officers, employees or
representatives of governmental units, firefighters, or health care personnel
acting within the scope of their duties. The regulations contained in this
section are to be in addition to any other provisions of the town code.
(Ord. 91-3-1, passed 12-2-91; Am. Ord. 07-2023, passed 9-5-23) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person in a park or on public lands belonging to the town shall:
      (1)   Fail to comply with all applicable provisions of the state motor
vehicle laws with regard to equipment and operation of a vehicle, together with
such regulations as are contained in this chapter and other ordinances.
      (2)   Operate a motor vehicle in parks or on public lands of the town
except where there is a road.
      (3)   Operate a motor vehicle on any road located in any park or public
lands of the town unless:
         (a)   The operator of a motor vehicle has a valid driver's license if
the vehicle by law requires an operator's license.
         (b)   The operation occurs during the times the parks or public lands
are open to the public. The hours of operation shall be determined by the Board
of Directors of the Department of Parks and Recreation or any designated agency
of the town. Operation of a motor vehicle in any park or on any public lands of
the town after the parks and public lands are closed to the public for the day
shall be deemed a violation of this section.
   (B)   The parks and public lands are not to be used for any type of
motorized recreation at any time. To do so shall be deemed a violation of this
section.
   (C)   No person shall ride, drive, or operate a motor vehicle in the parks
or on public lands of the town at a speed in excess of 15 miles per hour.
(Ord. 91-3-1, passed 12-2-91; Am. Ord. 07-2023, passed 9-5-23) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 PROPERTY LINES.
   No property line shall be defined by any fence, hedge, plants, shrubs,
stones, or curbing of any kind. In addition, the present town setback ordinance
will be observed.
(Ord. 91-3-1, passed 12-2-91; Am. Ord. 07-2023, passed 9-5-23)
§ 91.06 REGULATING THE USE OF THE FISH CREEK TRAIL.
   (A)   The Fish Creek Trail will be closed from dusk to dawn.
   (B)   Users of the Trail shall remain on the trail property and are
prohibited from entering adjacent properties, which is considered trespass and
subjects the individual to liability.
   (C)   Climbing on trees is prohibited.
   (D)   Swimming, wading, or any other entry into the waters of Fish Creek is
prohibited.
   (E)   Hunting of all types is prohibited.
   (F)   The damage to, defacement of or destruction of any of the components
of Fish Creek Trail is prohibited and is hereby declared an infraction.
   (G)   Motorized vehicles, except authorized emergency vehicles and
maintenance vehicles, are prohibited.
   (H)   Horses are prohibited.
   (I)   The use and possession of alcohol, illegal substances, smoking
products, vaping products, fires, or fireworks on Fish Creek Trail property is
prohibited.
   (J)   Camping is prohibited, including the pitching of tents and building of
fires.
   (K)   No trees shall be harvested or trimmed within the area composing the
Fish Creek Trail Project unless specific permission is given by the Hamilton
Town Council with the advice of the Hamilton Park Board.
   (L)   No field tile shall be located under, along and through the area
comprising the Fish Creek Trail Project except with specific permission from
the Hamilton Town Council with the advice of the Hamilton Park Board, and in
the event permission for tiling is given, tiling shall be restricted to a solid
tile and located in a specific easement as granted by the town. The permission
that must be obtained from the town is in addition to any other permits or
authorizations required from Steuben County and the State of Indiana and any
agencies thereof.
   (M)   Signs shall be posted at the Bellefountain Road and Ball Lake Road
entrances to the trail and trailhead rule signs shall be posted at various
locations along the trail.
   (N)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Town of Hamilton and the County
of Steuben.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 4-15-02; Am. Ord. 07-2023, passed 9-5-23) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which
another penalty is not specifically provided shall be punished as set forth in
§
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §
91.04 shall be declared a crime and will be punishable by a fine prescribed by
§
10.99, plus court costs. The fine may not be suspended. In addition, any person
convicted of violating any provision of §
91.04 shall pay for any damage done to town property that is associated with
the violation. The damage shall include the costs of time, labor, equipment and
materials needed to repair any damage.
   (C)   Any violation of §
91.06 shall be punishable by a fine of $50.
(Ord. 91-3-1, passed 12-2-91; Am. Ord. 2002-01, passed 4-15-02; Am. Ord. 07-
2023, passed 9-5-23)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practices
   
92.04   Discrimination in house rentals or sales prohibited
   
92.05   Discrimination in real estate transactions prohibited
   
92.06   Discrimination in brokerage services prohibited
   
92.07   Prevention of intimidation
   
92.08   Exemptions
   
92.09   Administrative enforcement
   
92.10   Limitation of liability
   
92.11   Violations
Statutory reference:
   For statutory provisions regarding fair housing, see I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It is the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional limitation,
for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for under the
federal Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 USC 2000e et seq.), as amended, the
federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 USC 5301 et seq.), as
amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 8-30-93)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISABILITY. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of such person's major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having an impairment;
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 USC 12101 et seq.), and any other
impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10;
      (5)   The provisions of this subsection notwithstanding, the term
DISABILITY does not include current illegal use of or addiction to a controlled
substance as defined in 21 USC 802; nor does the term DISABILITY include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.03 through
92.07 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. Under the chapter, a discriminatory act is committed
because of familial status if the act is committed because the person who is
the subject of discrimination is:
      (1)   Pregnant;
      (2)   Domiciled with an individual younger than 18 years of age in regard
to whom the person:
         (a)   Is the parent or legal custodian; or
         (b)   Has the written permission of the parent or legal custodian for
domicile with that person; or
      (3)   In the process of obtaining legal custody of an individual younger
than 18 years of age.
(I.C. 22-9.5-1-2)
   FAMILY. A single individual, with the status of family being further defined
by “familial status.”
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, limited liability companies,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code,
receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 8-30-93)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   (A)   General prohibitions. Subject to the provisions of division (A)(2) of
this section and I.C. 22-9-9.5-8, the prohibitions against discrimination in
the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04 apply to:
      (1)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (A)(2) and I.C. 22-
9.5-5-8.
      (2)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing
in §
92.04 is to apply to:
         (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
any one time; provided that in the sale of a single- family house by a private
individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who was not
the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption only
applies to one sale within any 24-month period. The private individual owner
may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his behalf title to
or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of
more than three single-family houses at any one time. The sale or rental of any
single-family house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or any employee or
agent of any broker, agent or salesperson, and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer title.
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his residence.
      (3)   For the purposes of division (A)(2)(a), a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
         (a)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
         (b)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
         (c)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
   (B)   Interference, coercion, or intimidation. It is unlawful to coerce,
intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any person in the exercise or enjoyment
of, or on account of his having exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his
having aided or encouraged any other person in the exercise of, any right
granted or protected by §§
92.04 through
92.07 of this chapter.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 8-30-93)
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSE RENTALS OR SALES.
   As made applicable by §
92.07 and except as exempted by §§
92.03(B) and 92.08, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, or
an intention to make any preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin; and
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted; and
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.
      (3)   Nothing in this section requires a dwelling to be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
      (4)   Nothing in this section requires, with respect to a rental property
or property sold on an instalment basis, a landlord or contract seller to allow
modifications to a dwelling which will irreparably destroy the original design
of a home which was built over 50 years previously or which was custom built
for the owner as a residence; nor shall it require a landlord or contract
seller to allow modifications which would substantially reduce the value of the
property where the landlord or contract seller has reasonable doubt as to the
financial capability of the renter or buyer to restore the dwelling to its
original state upon termination of the lease or default upon the contract by
the buyer.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 8-30-93)
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available a transaction, or in the
terms or conditions of a transaction, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Securing by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or familial
status.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 8-30-93)
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN BROKERAGE SERVICES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other
service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions of
such access, membership, or participation, on account of race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 8-30-93)
§ 92.07 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION.
   No person shall, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or
threat of force, willfully injure, intimidate or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, disability,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above;
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
      (3)   Lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons to participate,
without discrimination on account of race, color, religion, sex, disability,
familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in division (A), or is or has
participated lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the
opportunity to participate.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 8-30-93)
§ 92.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this ordinance to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is to prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any non-profit institution or organization
operated, supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious
organization, association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or
occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such
persons, unless membership in such religion is restricted on account of race,
color, or national origin. Nor does anything in the chapter prohibit a private
club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary
purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than
a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental and occupancy of such lodgings
to its members or from giving preference to its members, unless membership is
restricted because of race, color, or national origin.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program); or
         (b)   Intended for and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 8-30-93)
§ 92.09 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter is
vested in the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative enforcement of
actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Clerk- Treasurer of the town is the
designated person to receive any complaints brought to the attention of the
town and is responsible for forwarding all formal complaints of violations of
the provisions of this chapter to the Commission.
   (B)   All departments, officers, and agencies of the town shall carry out
their administrative duties pertaining to the departments, programs and
activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner consistent
with the purposes of this chapter and are to cooperate with the officers
involved with the administration thereof and the Commission to further the
purposes.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall provide information available to
any aggrieved person or complainant requesting information as may be provided
to the town from time to time, along with a copy of the provisions of this
chapter if so requested, along with the address of the Commission.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 8-30-93)
§ 92.10 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter is to be construed as imposing upon the town or any
town officer administering the same any liability in addition to any the town
or official would have otherwise been subjected to had this chapter not been
adopted. Whenever any violation of this chapter is also a violation of state or
federal law, and a state or federal agency, officer, commission or board has
jurisdiction to prosecute under state or federal law, then the town shall defer
to the state or federal agency, officer, commission or board in the enforcement
thereof. In addition, whenever any aggrieved party has available to the party
relief in the form of civil penalties or injunctive rights as against a
violator of this chapter, then the town shall defer to the party in the
initiation of any enforcement of this chapter. Provided, however, when the town
has been provided a written opinion by legal counsel stating that the state or
federal law, or the availability of civil penalties or injunctive rights are
not as extensive as are provided by the terms of this chapter, or are
inadequate to cause cessation of violations of the chapter, then the Town
Council may approve the initiation of enforcement of the chapter directly.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 8-30-93)
§ 92.11 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation and the town, or any party aggrieved by the violation shall be
entitled to seek and receive injunctive relief to require cessation of any
violations, or future violations.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 8-30-93)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
General Regulations
   
93.01   Public nuisances
   
93.02   Reporting of nuisances
   
93.03   Abatement of nuisances
   
93.04   Failure to abate
Weeds
   
93.15   Jurisdiction
   
93.16   Definitions; exclusions
   
93.17   Responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
93.18   Filing complaint
   
93.19   Notice of violations
   
93.20   Appeals
   
93.21   Abatement by town
   
93.22   Liability
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate conduct and property, see I.C. 36-8-2-4
   Authority to preserve public peace, see I.C. 36-8-2-2
   Regulation of air and sound, see I.C. 36-8-2-8
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 93.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
Indiana as a public nuisance may, when found to exist within the town limits,
be treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in this chapter, or in
accordance with any other provisions of law. Whenever the word nuisance is used
in this chapter, it refers to a public nuisance. A nuisance is also defined as
whatever is: (1) injurious to health; (2) indecent; (3) offensive to the
senses; or (4) an obstruction to the free use of property so as to essentially
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance,
and is subject to the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, tenant, or any other person having a substantial
interest in any real or personal property within the town, or agent thereof,
shall permit or allow to remain on or within the property or upon public ways
abutting the real property any materials, trash, garbage, debris, or any other
matter which is detrimental to the public health, comfort, safety, or the
anesthetic well-being of the town.
   (C)   The following conditions shall be considered to constitute public
nuisances for the purpose of this chapter; provided, however, this enumeration
shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusively limited or restrictive, and
is by way of example or illustration:
      (1)   Litter.
      (2)   Grass over nine inches high.
      (3)   Fallen trees, stumps, dead trees, and rotten or decayed firewood.
      (4)   Boxes, appliances, furniture, household items and tires.
      (5)   Demolition remains, including, but not limited to, discarded lumber
from any sources.
      (6)   Open excavations, uncovered or improperly covered holes, whether
lined or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property within
the town, including open foundations.
      (7)   Accumulated garbage and trash and, also, any garbage or trash which
is not kept securely in receptacles which are closed at all times except when
being filled or emptied.
      (8)   Structure defaced with paint or wording.
      (9)   Any portion of real property which emits an unwholesome odor.
      (10)   Any waste water filth, offal, garbage, rubbish, animal waste, or
human excrement which is deposited, allowed, or caused to be upon any public or
private property.
      (11)   Any water or other substance which is caused or permitted to flow
onto or be deposited upon any public property or public way, except natural
surface water drainage.
      (12)   Any dead domestic or wild animal.
      (13)   The erection of a dam or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the natural flow of water and causes it to collect or pool upon
any public property.
      (14)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease and is likely to cause an immediate health hazard.
      (15)   The placing or accumulation on or within any real or personal
property, or the permitting of same, of any matter which attracts or may
attract rodents, insects, domestic animals, or wild animals in such a manner as
to create a health hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition.
      (16)   Any real or personal property used as a place of residence or
habitation for sleeping that is maintained in such a way as to be dangerous or
detrimental to life or health due to the lack of or defects in water, drainage,
heating, plumbing or ventilation.
      (17)   Any dilapidated or condemned building, structure, or dwelling that
is so out of repair that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to catch on fire
or communicate fire to surrounding properties. Also, any dilapidated fence,
whether made of wood, chain link, wire, or other fencing material, regardless
of whether such fence constitutes a fire hazard.
      (18)   Any noxious odors, smoke, dust, or noise that emits from the
premises into the surrounding atmosphere which creates an uncomfortable
condition to surrounding properties.
      (19)   The storage of explosive, combustible, or other inflammable
material which creates a safety or health risk.
      (20)   Any trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow, fences or other material which
obstruct public ways or cause a visual barrier for vehicular traffic.
      (21)   Any junk automobiles, broken concrete, scrap metals, or automobile
parts including, but not limited to, iron, steel, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum,
or alloy.
      (22)   Any growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation, including,
but not limited to, ragweed, goldenrod, milkweed, Canadian thistle, dandelions,
plantain and other broadleaf weeds, buckthorn, poison ivy, poison sumac, and
burdock, which is either:
         (a)   Neglected, disregarded or not adequately managed or controlled,
cut, mown, or removed; or
         (b)   Has attained a height of nine inches or more; or
         (c)   Is actually or immediately detrimental to the public health,
safety, or welfare.
      (23)   Any animal or vegetable matter, or other substance liable to
become putrid, offensive or unhealthy within the town.
      (24)   All obstructions caused or permitted on any street or sidewalk, or
public or private alley to the danger or annoyance or inconvenience of the
public, and all stones, dirt, carcases, offal, filth, slop, vegetable matter or
other articles thrown or placed by any person on or in any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place which in any way may cause or is liable to cause
any injury or inconvenience or annoyance to the public within the town.
      (25) A semi-trailer, defined as every vehicle without motive power
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its road
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle, used as temporary or
permanent stationary storage, that is located on public or private property and
is not properly licensed.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 8-5-02; Am. Ord. 2003-03, passed 5-5-03)
§ 93.02 REPORTING OF NUISANCE.
   It shall be the duty of all officers and employees of the town to report the
existence of nuisances to the Town Council. For this purpose, the Town Marshal,
or the Zoning Administrator, or the Code Enforcement Officer or other employees
designated by the Town Council shall be permitted to visit, enter into or upon
any building, lot, grounds, or premises within the limits of the town to
ascertain and discover any nuisance and to make examination thereof.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 8-5-02)
§ 93.03 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   When a public nuisance is found to exist, the Zoning Administrator,
Code Enforcement Officer, Town Marshal or other employees designated by the
Town Council shall notify the property owner or persons known to have a
substantial interest in the property to abate the conditions which are deemed
to be a public nuisance under this subchapter.
   (B)   Notification to abate shall be issued according to applicable law.
Notification shall state the nature of the nuisances, the penalty for neglect
or refusal to abate the nuisance, and the period of time allowed to abate the
nuisance.
   (C)   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the town or within the
town's extra territorial jurisdiction, the Town Marshal, Zoning Administrator,
Code Enforcement Officer, or other employees designated by the Town Council
shall give five days written notice to the owner or person known to have a
substantial interest in the property.
   (D)   The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of this
subchapter shall contain:
      (1)   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a
stated time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
      (3)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance;
      (5)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated or corrected and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the town will abate
such nuisance and assess the costs thereof against such person.
   (E)   The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served as any other legal
process may be served pursuant to law.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 8-5-02; Am. Ord. 2003-08, passed 6-2-03)
§ 93.04 FAILURE TO ABATE.
   (A)   The failure, neglect, or refusal by any owner to abate the nuisance as
prescribed in the notice to abate given under this subchapter shall be
considered a violation of this subchapter, and each subsequent day of
noncompliance shall be considered a separate violation.
   (B)   Upon failure, neglect, or refusal of any party to comply with the
notice to abate given under §
93.03, or whenever a nuisance exists which creates a safety or health hazard
requiring immediate abatement in order to protect public safety or health, and
after all persons known to have a substantial interest in the property where
the nuisance exists have been given a reasonable opportunity to bring the
property into compliance and have not done so, the town may abate the nuisance
and bill the cost of abatement to the record property owner and to persons
shown to have the exclusive possession of the property. In the event town
employees are used to abate the nuisance, the hourly rate charged by the town
shall be $100 per hour per employee for the first violation, and said rate
shall increase by $50 per hour per employee for all subsequent violations. In
addition to the hourly rate, all costs involved with the disposal of any
material removed from the property shall be assessed to the property owner.
This hourly rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Town Council by
resolution in order to be assured that the costs of enforcement are completely
paid for by the owner and not other tax payers. Any and all costs incurred by
the town in the abatement of a nuisance under the provisions of this subchapter
shall constitute a lien against the property upon which the nuisance existed,
which lien shall be filed, proved, and collected by certifying the costs of the
abatement to the County Auditor as provided by law. In enforcing the provisions
of this subchapter, the town shall also be entitled to collect reasonable
attorney fees and court costs in addition to any other fines and penalties as
provided by this section and by law.
   (C)   The costs established in division (B) above which shall be assessed to
the property owner, are separate and distinct and shall be in addition to any
penalties set out in §
93.99, and the $2,500 call for fines in §
93.99 does not and shall not apply to the costs assessed to the property owner
under this section.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 8-5-02; Am. Ord. 2003-08, passed 6-2-03 ; Am. Ord. 2010-
04, passed 6-7-10; Am. Ord. 2011-3, passed 9-22-11) Penalty, see §
93.99
WEEDS
§ 93.15 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The jurisdiction of this section shall be the corporate limits of the
city, as presently defined or as may be modified from time to time by
annexation or town ordinance.
   (B)   This section shall be in addition to any statute or county ordinance
presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-4-12)
§ 93.16 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Town Manager has code enforcement authority.
      NOTICE TO REMOVE/ABATE. This is the notice served by the town executives
including, but not limited to, the Town Manager for a violation of this
subchapter.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION.
         (a)   Canada thistle, thistles, johnson grass, sorghum, alum (i.e.,
allium), bur cucumber, and shattercane.
         (b)   Rank vegetation is the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of
annuals and perennial plants.
         (c)   WEEDS do not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall the cultivated plants or crops include plants which
have been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the town executives with respect to the definition of
exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants and crops.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-4-12)
§ 93.17 RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is nine inches or
more in height.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-4-12)
§ 93.18 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person who believes there is property located within the corporate
limits of the town which has growing plant matter in violation of this
subchapter, shall make a complaint to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer or the
office of Town Manager. Complaints may be submitted in writing, including e-
mail, or may be submitted by telephone. The town shall also have the authority
to initiate enforcement activities without receiving a complaint.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-4-12)
§ 93.19 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Complaints received pursuant to §
93.18 shall be investigated by the Enforcement Officer. After concluding the
investigation and inspection, if the Enforcement Officer concludes there is a
probable belief that this subchapter has been violated, the Enforcement Officer
shall forward a written notice designated as a notice to abate or a notice to
remove or language similar thereto, to the property owner and the person
occupying the property as that information is contained within the records of
the DeKalb County Auditor or Steuben County Auditor and the utility records of
the town or any other source selected by the town. The notice shall be served
in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, or an equivalent
service as permitted under I.C. 1-1-7-1. The notice shall require that within
seven calendar days after the receipt of the notice that the designated
violation shall be abated or removed by the property owner and/or the person
occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices sent by the town shall be in writing and all records
shall be kept with the Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to or from the town is deemed filed on the date
of posting with the United States Postal Service.
   (C)   If an initial notice of this subchapter was provided by certified mail
or equivalent service, a continuous abatement notice may be posted at the
property at the time of the second abatement instead of by certified mail or
equivalent service.
   (D)   A continuous abatement notice serves as notice to the real property
owner that each subsequent violation during the same calendar year for which
the initial notice of violation was provided may be abated by the town or its
contractors.
   (E)   Notice shall be given to the owner of record of real property with a
single owner or at least one of the owners of real property with multiple
owners.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-4-12)
§ 93.20 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the Clerk-Treasurer within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the Enforcement
Officer. It is the property owner's responsibility to demonstrate that the
matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not
otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and should not be subject to
destruction under the subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Town Council members in
attendance and such being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the
Town Council.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-4-12)
§ 93.21 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the notice to
abate, notice to destroy, or notices similar thereto within seven calendar days
and has not filed a notice within 48 hours to the Town Manager of an intent to
appeal, the town may employ the services of town employees or outside
contractors and remove the weeds, grasses and rank vegetation to conform to
this subchapter by all lawful means.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-4-12)
§ 93.22 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney's
fees, and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town. In the event
town employees are used to abate the nuisance, the hourly rate charged by the
town shall be $100 per hour per employee for the first violation, and the rate
shall increase by $50 per hour per employee for all subsequent violations. In
addition to the hourly rate, all costs involved with the disposal of any
material removed from the property shall be assessed to the property owner.
This hourly rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Town Council by
resolution in order to be assured that the costs of enforcement are completely
paid for by the owner and not other tax payers.
   (C)   A bill for all costs incurred by the town pursuant to division (B)
above shall be sent to the property owner at the last address for the property
owner as indicated on the records identified herein. The property owner shall
have 30 days to pay the bill in full. The property owner may appeal the bill by
filing a written notice of objections with the Town Manager within seven days
after receipt of the bill. An appeal by the property owner shall be brought
before the Town Council and decided in the same manner as appeals under §
93.20(A) of this subchapter.
   (D)   Any and all costs incurred by the town in the enforcement of this
subchapter which are not paid by the property owner within the time prescribed
in this section, shall constitute a lien against the property upon which the
violation existed, which lien shall be filed, proved, and collected by
certifying the costs incurred by the town to the County Auditor on or before
October 1 of each year, or as otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-4-12)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of an offense and fined not less than $25 for a
first offense, no less than $ 100 for a second offense within the same calendar
year, and not less than $200 for all subsequent offenses within the same
calendar year, but no fine shall exceed $2,500.
   (B)   Each day after the expiration date of the time ordered by the
Enforcement Officer for abating a nuisance condition under this chapter shall
constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-4-12)
Cross-reference:
   Additional penalties for violations of provisions of Chapter 90: Animals,
see §
90.99
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Street Location Change
   
94.01   Compliance with subchapter; application
   
94.02   Public hearing
   
94.03   Recommendations of Plan Commission
   
94.04   Approval by Town Council
Street and Sidewalk Regulations
   
94.25   Responsibility for sidewalk repairs; city action
   
94.26   Responsibility for removal of dirt, rubbish, ice and snow from sidewalk
   
94.27   Burning leaves and rubbish on paved street prohibited
   
94.28   Gasoline, oil and kerosene prohibited
   
94.29   Sidewalk awnings
   
94.30   Loading and unloading merchandise
   
94.31   Building materials prohibited on sidewalk
   
94.32   Discharge of water over sidewalk
Underground and Buried Utilities District
   
94.45   Established
 
   
94.99   Penalty
STREET LOCATION CHANGE
§ 94.01 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBCHAPTER; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to change the location of an existing street which
is not located according to its plat or desiring to improve and develop an
unimproved but platted street shall be prohibited from doing so except as
provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   The person shall complete an application/petition and submit it to the
Hamilton Plan Commission through the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The
application shall show, at a minimum:
      (1)   The name of the street;
      (2)   The general description of the length and width of that portion of
the street to be improved and/or relocated expressed in terms of feet and
referencing intersections with other streets or other landmarks;
      (3)   A specific description of the type and nature of all the
improvements to be made;
      (4)   An estimate of the cost of the proposed improvements, which
estimate shall be prepared by a contractor regularly doing business in street
improvements, such as grading, paving, etc.,
      (5)   A complete and accurate list of the names and mailing addresses of
all owners of property abutting that portion of the street to be improved,
which list must be certified under oath as being accurate; and
      (6)   A true and accurate copy of the plat, including the protective
covenants and dedications, of the subdivision addition in which the street is
located;
      (7)   The application/petition shall be accompanied by a survey done by a
registered land surveyor licensed in compliance with the laws of the state
showing the location of the street as platted, the actual location and
dimensions of the existing improved street, and the location and dimensions of
the proposed improved street. The submission of the application and other
documents required by this division is a prerequisite to the Plan Commission
taking any further action pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 98-11, passed 12-7-98)
§ 94.02 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Upon compliance with the requirements of §
94.02(B), the Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing after giving notice
by publication as required by I.C. 5-3-1, and by giving notice by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to all property owners whose property abuts the
existing street or the platted street or whose property is otherwise located in
the subdivision (who are hereafter referred to as “affected property owners”).
(Ord. 98-11, passed 12-7-98)
§ 94.03 RECOMMENDATIONS OF PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   If the Plan Commission finds that the public would be materially
injured or any affected property owner would be materially injured by the
relief sought by the petitioner, or that the proposed improvements are or would
not be located entirely within the platted right-of-way for such street, then
the Plan Commission shall recommend denial of the petition. If the Plan
Commission finds that the public would not be materially injured nor any
affected property owner materially injured, and that the proposed improvements
are entirely within the platted right-of-way for the street, then the Plan
Commission shall recommend approval of the petition.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall submit its recommendation to the Town
Council and the Town Council shall take action upon the recommendation at its
next regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 98-11, passed 12-7-98)
§ 94.04 APPROVAL BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   In the event the Town Council approves the recommendation and allows
the relocation as requested by the petitioner or allows the development and
improvement as requested by the petitioner, then a specific permit will be
prepared and issued by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town and placed in the
records of Steuben or DeKalb counties, as the case may be.
   (B)   In the event of an approval by the Town Council, the petitioner shall
be required to furnish an “as-built” certification in the form and style
acceptable to the town, certified by a registered land surveyor licensed in the
state establishing that the improvements were made as proposed. The petitioner
shall also be required to submit a two-year maintenance bond in an amount set
by the Town Council, which shall be submitted prior to the acceptance of the
improvements by the Town Council. The petitioner shall also be required to
submit a certificate of dedication in the form and manner acceptable to the
Town Council, from all persons or entities owning the real estate within the
street right-of-way dedicating it to the public.
   (C)   The decision of the Town Council, whether in favor of the petitioner
or against the petitioner, shall be final. The petitioner or any affected
property owner may appeal the decision by filing a lawsuit in either the
Circuit or Superior Court of DeKalb or Steuben counties within 30 days after
the date of the final action by the Town Council.
(Ord. 98-11, passed 12-7-98)
STREET AND SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
§ 94.25 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SIDEWALK REPAIRS; CITY ACTION.
   (A)   All sidewalks, either newly constructed, replaced or repaired in the
town shall be made in conformity with the provisions of this section, and the
grades, plans, profiles and specifications furnished by the town on file in the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office, as adopted and approved by the Town Council
   (B)   Sidewalks shall be maintained by the owners of the abutting property
so as to be free of defects so that they remain safe, fit and convenient for
passage thereon by pedestrians and do not trap and retain debris and litter.
When any sidewalk within the town is or becomes out of repair so that it is
rendered unsafe, unfit or inconvenient for passage thereon by pedestrians, the
Town Council shall notify the owners of the abutting property of the defect in
the sidewalk, and if not repaired, relaid or replaced without any directable
time, not to exceed 30 days, the Town Council shall then take such action as it
deems proper.
   (C)   For purposes of and within the purview of this section, the
determination of the Town Council as to the necessity of the repair, relaying
or the replacing of any such sidewalk to render it safe, fit or convenient for
passage thereover by pedestrians shall be conclusive as far as the town is
concerned.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 1-6-03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL OF DIRT, RUBBISH, ICE AND SNOW FROM
SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant or occupant of property
adjacent to any sidewalk within the town to remove snow and ice on the sidewalk
within six hours after daylight and after the snow has ceased.
   (B)   The owners or persons controlling premises in any business area of the
town shall avoid littering the public way with paper, dirt or refuse and shall
sweep the sidewalks in front of their premises down to the curb, gather up all
loose paper and refuse; and may sweep the balance into the gutter at least once
every 24 hours except when the business is closed. Persons in residential areas
shall sweep or rinse off the sidewalks abutting their premises at least once
each month, or as often as may be required to keep the walk and street
reasonably free from dirt, paper and refuse.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 1-6-03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 BURNING LEAVES AND RUBBISH ON PAVED STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or suffer any leaves or rubbish
to be placed in or upon the paved streets in the town and burned thereon.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 1-6-03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 GASOLINE, OIL AND KEROSENE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person as the owner or driver of any vehicle,
to suffer any oil, gasoline or kerosene to run or drip from the vehicle on the
asphalt pavement of the town.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 1-6-03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.29 SIDEWALK AWNINGS.
   All awnings projecting over a public sidewalk shall be constructed of cloth,
canvas or other material approved by the Town Council. The frames shall be
elevated at least eight feet and the curtain at least seven feet at the lowest
part thereof above the sidewalk, and shall not project over the sidewalk to
exceed eight feet. They shall be supported without posts but by metal brackets
or frame work firmly attached to the building so as to leave the sidewalk
entirely unobstructed thereby.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 1-6-03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.30 LOADING AND UNLOADING MERCHANDISE.
   No person receiving or delivering goods, wares or merchandise shall place or
keep upon, or suffer to be placed or kept upon any sidewalk in the town, any
such goods, wares or merchandise, without leaving a passage way for pedestrians
at least eight feet in width, and no person receiving or delivering such goods
shall suffer the same to remain on any sidewalk for any longer than three
hours.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 1-6-03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.31 BUILDING MATERIALS PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or allow to remain material of
any kind on the sidewalk in the town while building, erecting or repairing any
building or place fronting or bordering thereon.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 1-6-03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.32 DISCHARGE OF WATER OVER SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building to cause or
allow the water pipes or spouting conducting water from any such building to
discharge over or upon the adjoining sidewalks.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 1-6-03) Penalty, see §
94.99
UNDERGROUND AND BURIED UTILITIES DISTRICT
§ 94.45 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The town hereby establishes an Underground and Buried Utilities
District ("Area") to be in effect April 30, 2017, and to apply throughout the
town's rights-of-way and granted utility easements and is hereinafter defined
as follows:
      (1)   In all areas of the town where no overhead or aboveground
utilities, utility facilities, overhead lines, or associated overhead
structures used or useful in supplying electric, communication, or similar and
associated services currently exist;
      (2)   In all areas of the town where planned road projects, redevelopment
areas, and/or economic development areas provide for and require underground
buried utilities and utility facilities, including but not limited to electric,
communication, or similar and associated services; and
      (3)   All other areas of right-of-way or proposed right-of-way throughout
the town, whether or not aboveground utilities or utility facilities currently
exist.
   (B)   From and after the effective date of this section, no person,
corporation, or utility shall erect or construct within the town's rights-of-
way any pole, overhead line, or associated overhead structure used or useful in
supplying electric, communication, or similar associated services.
   (C)   Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Works Board, all
utilities located within the town's rights-of-way shall be placed underground
and/or buried.
   (D)   All existing overhead poles, wires, and/or utility transmission lines
may remain in the town's right-of-way but may not be replaced and/or relocated
more than five feet from an existing pole without prior written permission from
the Town Council; any replacement or relocation greater than five feet from an
existing pole will require prior written authorization from the Town Council.
The Hamilton Lake Conservancy District control panels and disconnect panels are
exempt from the provision of this section.
(Res. 2017-2, passed 4-30-17; Am. Res. 2017-3, passed 7-3-17)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who or which violates any provisions of §§
94.25 et seq. shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $50
nor more than $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed to have occurred and
been committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 1-6-03)
CHAPTER 95: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
95.01   Paper and like materials
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PAPER AND LIKE MATERIALS.
   (A)   All burning of paper, paper boxes or miscellaneous dry materials shall
be burned in regulation burners of wire mesh or perforated burners fitted with
covers or top enclosures to prevent blowing of burning parts. The ashes from
such burners are to be emptied by the owner or occupant of such property after
they are cold, into small containers not to exceed 50 pounds in weight.
   (B)   The burning of paper, paper boxes or miscellaneous dry material
described in division (A) above shall be done in complete compliance with
division (A) and only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. seven days a
week.
   (C)   The burning of leaves, grass and weeds are prohibited.
   (D)   Recreational or ceremonial fires, such as barbeques and campfires are
permitted but must comply with the following conditions:
      (1)   These fires may burn at night and may be fueled only by charcoal or
clean burning petroleum products such as lighter fluids;
      (2)   The fires shall burn only wood and wood products not otherwise
prohibited by Indiana Law;
      (3)   A person who burns such a fire shall extinguish the fire if it
creates a nuisance or fire hazard;
      (4)   Burning may not be conducted during favorable meteorological
conditions such as high winds, temperature inversions or air stagnation;
      (5)   All fires must be attended at all times during burning until
completely extinguished; and
      (6)   All asbestos containing material may not be burned.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 7-6-04) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
less than $50 and no more than $100 for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each and every day during on or which offense
occurs or continues. The town shall be entitled to collect reasonable attorney
fees and court costs incurred by the town in enforcing the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is declared to be a nuisance. In
addition to any other relief provided by this section, the town legal
department may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to
prohibit the continuation of any violation of this section. Such application
for relief may include seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary
injunction and permanent injunction.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 7-6-04)
CHAPTER 96: CONSUMER FIREWORKS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Use of consumer fireworks
   
96.03   Enforcement
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt fireworks use regulations, see I.C. 22-11-14-10.5
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. A small firework that is designed primarily to produce
visible or audible effects by combustion, and that is required to comply with
the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by
the Unites States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR 1507. The
term also includes some small devices designed to produce an audible effect,
such as whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of
explosive composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of
explosive composition. Propelling and expelling charges consisting of a mixture
of charcoal sulfur, and potassium nitrate are not considered to be designed to
produce an audible effect.
   (A)   Consumer fireworks include:
      (1)   Aerial devices, which include, but are not limited to, sky rockets,
missile-type rockets, helicopter or aerial spinners, Roman candles, mines and
shells;
      (2)   Ground audible devices, which include, but are not limited to,
firecrackers, salutes and chasers; and
      (3)   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects described
in divisions (A)(1) and (2) above.
   (B)   Consumer fireworks do not include the following fireworks as
referenced in I.C. 22-11-4-8(a):
      (1)   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers.
         (a)   Restrictions. The total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed
100 grams per item; and
         (b)   Devices containing chlorate or per chlorate salts may not exceed
five grams per item.
      (2)   Cylindrical fountains.
      (3)   Cone fountains.
      (4)   Illuminating torches.
      (5)   Wheels.
      (6)   Ground spinners.
      (7)   Flitter sparklers.
      (8)   Snakes or glow worms.
      (9)   Smoke devices.
      (10)   Trick noisemakers that include party poppers, booby traps,
snappers, trick matches, cigarette loads and auto burglar alarms.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 11-5-07)
§ 96.02 USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   No person within the corporate boundaries of the Town of Hamilton shall use,
ignite or discharge or permit to be used, ignited or discharged any type of
consumer fireworks on any day or time other than the following:
   (A)   July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, and July 7 between the hours of 5:00
p.m. and 11:00 p.m.;
   (B)   July 4 between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and midnight;
   (C)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1;
   (D)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on January 1; and
   (E)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and midnight on Memorial Day.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 11-5-07)
§ 96.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Hamilton Marshal’s Department shall be charged with enforcing the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 11-5-07)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this chapter commits
a Class C infraction and shall be fined in an amount of $100 for each
violation. Violations of this chapter shall be prosecuted through the Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 11-5-07)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING
      
111.   PEDDLERS
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Authority to license
   
110.02   Application; approval of Town Council
   
110.03   Duration of license, display, inspections
   
110.04   Issuance, revocation or suspension
§ 110.01 AUTHORITY TO LICENSE.
   The town has the authority to impose a license fee that is reasonably
related to the administrative cost of exercising such regulating powers.
('88 Code, § 4-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Limitations on licensing authority - fee must be reasonably related to
administrative costs, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(5)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION; APPROVAL OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   All applications for a permit or license under this chapter shall be
referred to the Clerk-Treasurer and the Town Council. ('88 Code, § 4-1-2)
   (B)   The Town Council shall grant such permit or license at the next
regular meeting unless good cause be shown to deny the permit or license
request. ('88 Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 110.03 DURATION OF LICENSE, DISPLAY, INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All licenses issued under this chapter, unless specified otherwise on
the license, shall be issued for the duration of the calendar year in which
they were issued and shall expire on December 31 of that calendar year.
   (B)   Every person who is issued a license under the provisions of this
chapter shall display the license at the location of the licensed activity
being conducted, or if there are no premises, shall carry the license while
engaged in the activity for which he has been licensed and shall exhibit it to
any town official or citizen upon request.
   (C)   The Town Marshal or his designee may inspect all places of business
under license or required to have a license.
('88 Code, § 4-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to perform inspections, see I.C. 36-8-3-10
§ 110.04 ISSUANCE, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue licenses upon payment of the license
fee, compliance with the applicable code provisions, and Town Council approval.
   (B)   Licenses issued by the town may be revoked or suspended if the person
holding the license has violated the terms or conditions of the license or the
law under which it was issued, or has conducted the business in such a manner
as to constitute a threat to public health, safety, or general welfare of the
town's citizens.
('88 Code, § 4-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer’s authority to issue licenses, see I.C. 36-5-6-6(b)(8)
   License revocation or suspension, see I.C. 36-5-4-11
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   License required; fee; exception
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No street or traveling peddler, hawker, or itinerant dealer in goods,
wares or merchandise shall sell or offer to sell by retail in the town any such
goods, wares or merchandise without a license first being obtained from the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The license shall be for one day, one week, one month or one year, and
shall be licensed by the Clerk-Treasurer upon payment by the applicant therefor
the sum of $30 for one day, $125 for one week, $400 for one month and $2,000
for one year.
      (1)   Businesses within the Town of Hamilton and not-for-profit
organizations shall not be charged a fee. Not-for-profit organizations shall
provide proof of their tax exempt status to the Clerk- Treasurer before a
license will be issued.
      (2)   If any vendors are going to do business at the park from April 15
through September 30 they need a written agreement with the Summer League and
needs to be submitted to town prior to getting permit.
      (3)   If any vendor is going to do business during any event sponsored by
the Hamilton Chamber of Commerce, that vendor shall be exempt for two days from
the fee requirement, however, if a vendor is going to conduct business during a
Hamilton Chamber of Commerce sponsored event beyond two days, then the
appropriate fee shall be paid.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall include farmers or producers of vegetables,
cereals or fruits.
('88 Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 5, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2013-6, passed 6-3-13)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Carnival and circus permits
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of public gatherings, see I.C. 36-8-2-9
§ 112.01 CARNIVAL AND CIRCUS PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any circus or carnival
which is open to the public and to which an admittance fee is charged without
first obtaining a permit from the Clerk-Treasurer's office.
   (B)   Each applicant for a permit shall file a completed application within
30 days prior to the date of the proposed carnival or circus, unless said time
period is waived by the Town Council.
   (C)   The applicant shall furnish:
      (1)   Legal name of applicant and job title;
      (2)   Present address and telephone number of applicant;
      (3)   Name and address of traveling company or organization sponsoring
the carnival or circus;
      (4)   Proposed location of carnival or circus;
      (5)   Proposed dates of the carnival or circus;
      (6)   Number and types of sideshows, concessions and rides to be
included;
      (7)   References of other cities and towns recently visited by the
carnival or circus; and
      (8)   Written permission of the owner of the proposed site and his or her
written statement of the current zoning of the site.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a copy of the completed application
to the Town Marshal for a background check of the applicant and for
recommendations concerning crowd, noise and litter control, restroom
facilities, security, hours of operation, and other related public safety
matters.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall also forward a copy of the completed
application to the Volunteer Fire Chief for a check of ingress and egress to
the proposed site for emergency vehicles, recommendations concerning fire
lanes, parking, first aid stations, and other public safety matters.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall also forward a copy of the completed
application to the Town Council who shall review the same. The Volunteer Fire
Chief and the Town Marshal shall forward their recommendations to the Town
Council who shall review the same.
   (G)   The Town Council shall vote on whether to approve the proposal.
   (H)   If the Board approves the proposal, then the applicant shall file a
hold harmless agreement with the town agreeing to hold the town harmless for
all damages, liabilities and injuries which result from the carnival or circus.
The Board may further require proof of liability insurance from the applicant
in an amount set by the Board.
   (I)   There shall be charged and collected for such license for each circus
or carnival $10 per day; $50 per week; $200 per month; or $2,200 per year.
('88 Code, § 4-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC WELFARE
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Consumption or possession of alcoholic beverages on municipally owned
or leased property
   
130.02   Prohibition of smoking in municipal buildings and other municipally
owned or occupied places
§ 130.01 CONSUMPTION OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON MUNICIPALLY OWNED
OR LEASED PROPERTY.
   The consumption or possession of any alcoholic beverage of any type is
prohibited on or upon any municipally owned or leased real estate, including
any buildings or structures erected thereon, within the corporate limits of the
town.
(Ord. 98-6, passed 8-3-98) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS AND OTHER MUNICIPALLY
OWNED OR OCCUPIED PLACES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HAMILTON MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS. Those structures owned, leased or otherwise
occupied by the Town of Hamilton, Indiana, including, but not limited to all
areas within said buildings or any additions thereto, including parks and
recreational areas.
      PERSON. Any man, woman or child, regardless of age.
      PUBLIC PLACES. Any area to which the public is invited or in which the
public is permitted and which is owned, leased, or otherwise operated and
occupied by the Town of Hamilton; this definition includes, parks, playgrounds,
Memorial Beach, and other recreational areas. PUBLIC PLACES shall specifically
not include public rights-of-ways except those that are on or across real
estate owned, leased, or otherwise occupied by the town, such as the Town Hall
and police and fire stations.
      SMOKE or SMOKING. To ignite or cause to be ignited tobacco or a tobacco
product or derivative, which includes but is not limited to tobacco or a
derivative thereof, including but not limited to e-cigarettes or other devices
utilized for "vaping", such that the product or derivative emits a gas or cloud
which may be or is intended to be inhaled by any person.
      TOBACCO. Any of several plants belonging to the genus Nicotiana, of the
nightshade family, especially one of those species, as N tabacum, whose leaves
are prepared for smoking or chewing or as snuff; the prepared leaves as used in
cigarettes, cigars, and pipes, any product or products made from such leaves;
on any various similar or genera.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall have in his/her possession any lighted
tobacco product or tobacco derivative, including, but not limited to pipes,
cigars, cigarettes or other devices used for the smoking of tobacco or tobacco-
like products, which includes, but is not limited to, tobacco or a derivative
thereof as otherwise defined in this section, and also including e-cigarettes
or other devices utilized for "vaping", while within any municipally owned,
leased or occupied buildings or real estate within the Town of Hamilton,
Indiana. The Fire Chief of the Town of Hamilton, may, by written order,
designate one area outside but adjacent to the fire station where the
possession of a lighted tobacco product may be lawful and appropriate signage
may be installed advising occupants of such structure of such location. The
Marshal of the Town of Hamilton, by written order, may designate one area
outside of but adjacent to a place where the possession of a lighted tobacco
product may be lawful and appropriate signage may be installed advising
occupants of such structure of such location. The Town Manager of the Town of
Hamilton may, by written order, designate one area outside but adjacent to the
town hall, where the possession of a lighted tobacco product may be lawful and
appropriate signage may be installed advising occupants of such structure of
such location. Such written orders, before becoming effective, must be approved
by the Town Council.
   (C)   Posting of signs. "No smoking" signs or the international "no smoking”
symbol (consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette with a
red circle and a red bar through it) shall be clearly, sufficiently and
conspicuously posted in every building or other area where smoking is
prohibited by this section. Such signs may be posted by any authorized
employee, agent or representative of the Town of Hamilton.
   (D)   Fine. Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine of $100 for the first offence and
then $200 for any and all subsequent offenses.
   (E)   Enforcement. Enforcement of this section shall be implemented by any
member of the Town Marshal Department, including reserves, or by any other town
employee or official, duly authorized by the Town Council. Any citizen who
desires to register a complaint under this section may initiate enforcement by
filing the appropriate complaint to the Town Manager or to the Town Marshal.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 10-10-22)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
Curfew
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Offenses
   
131.04   Defenses
   
131.05   Enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 131.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the general welfare and protect
the general public through the reduction of juvenile violence and crime within
the town, to promote the safety and well-being of the town’s youngest citizens
and persons whose inexperience renders them particularly vulnerable to becoming
participants in unlawful activities, particularly unlawful drug activities, and
to being victimized by older perpetrators of crime, and to foster and
strengthen parental responsibility for children.
(Ord. 2000-11, passed 11-6-00)
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS.  
      (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to
be in a public place:
         (a)   Between 1 a.m. and 5 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
         (b)   After 11 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
         ©)   Before 5 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday.
      (2)   It is a curfew violation for a child less than 15 years of age to
be in a public place after 11 p.m. or before 5 a.m. on any day.
   DESIGNATED ADULT. A person who is:
      (1)   Designated or given permission by a natural parent, adoptive
parent, or step-parent, or guardian or another person to supervise the parent’s
child or children under this chapter; and
      (2)   Is at least 18 years of age.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person or a
minor, or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership, the officers of a
corporation, members or managers of a limited liability company, or other like
kind individuals.
   PARENT. A person who is:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent or another
person; or
      (2)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to
have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN.
      (1)   To linger or stay, or
      (2)   To fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
of impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Ord. 2000-11, passed 11-6-00)
§ 131.03 OFFENSES.
   (A)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place or
on the premises of any establishments within the town during curfew hours.
   (B)   A parent, guardian, or designated adult of a minor commits an offense
if he or she knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to
remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the
town during curfew hours.
(Ord. 2000-11, passed 11-6-00) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 DEFENSES.
   It is a defense to being cited under this subchapter if the minor was:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent, guardian, or designated adult for
supervision purposes;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent, guardian, or
designated adult without any detour or stop;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity without any detour or stop;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency involving or potentially involving serious
bodily injury;
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
resident of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the Police
Department about the minor’s presence;
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious, political, or other
recreational activity supervised by adults and or sponsored by the town, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, political, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and or sponsored by the town, a civic organization, or
another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights in the form of attending religious
events, political events, vigils, lawful demonstrations and assembly,
educational activities, neighborhood association meetings, or other activities
of a like kind that fall within the ambit of the First Amendment to the United
States Constitution;
   (I)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
   (J)   Married or had been married or has been legally emancipated in
accordance with the Indiana Code.
(Ord. 2000-11, passed 11-6-00)
§ 131.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   A police officer, before taking any legal action, may take steps necessary
to question any individual who appears to be under the age of 18 for the
specific purpose of enforcing this subchapter. Before taking any enforcement
action under this section, a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s
age and reason for being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a
citation under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in §
131.04 is present. An effort will be made on behalf of the Hamilton Police
Department to contact the parent, guardian, or designated adult to inform them
of the alleged curfew violation under this section.
(Ord. 2000-11, passed 11-6-00)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates a provision of §§
131.01 through
131.05 is in violation of a separate offense for each day or part of a day
during which the violation is committed, continued, or permitted. Each offense
is punishable by a fine.
   (B)   The fines shall be punishable by the following schedule:
      (1)   First offense: $50
      (2)   Second offense: $100
      (3)   Third offense: $250
      (4)   Fourth offense and each offense thereafter: $500
   (C)   Any person cited under §§
131.01 through
131.05 shall pay the fine within five days of receiving the same to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town.
(Ord. 2000-11, passed 11-6-00)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC WELFARE
Section
Real Estate Used for Illegal Use or Sale of Narcotics or Controlled Substances
   
132.01   Purpose; general prohibition
   
132.02   Reports, investigations and notices by Police Department
   
132.03   Criteria for establishing violation
   
132.04   Eviction proceedings as defense
   
132.05   Multiple dwelling units
   
132.06   Filing of criminal charges
   
132.07   Assistance by Town Marshal
   
132.08   Limited indemnification of owners of real estate
   
132.09   List to be kept by Town Marshal
 
   
132.99   Penalty
REAL ESTATE USED FOR ILLEGAL USE OR SALE OF NARCOTICS OR CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
§ 132.01 PURPOSE; GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   The Town Council finds it to be in the best interests of the residents
of the town and the general public to provide for the regulation of conduct it
deems to be offensive; to prevent vice, disorder and immorality; and to promote
public peace, health and safety, and to this end, the Town Council enacts this
chapter.
   (B)   No owner of real estate located in the town shall knowingly allow that
real estate to be used as a site for any use or sale of illicit narcotics or
controlled dangerous substances, after having received written notice pursuant
to I.C. 36-7-9-25, from the Town Marshal’s office that a present occupant or
tenant of that property has been using or selling illicit narcotics or
controlled dangerous substances, or allowing the using or selling of illicit
narcotics or controlled dangerous substances at that property, or has otherwise
been engaging in or allowing activity constituting a nuisance pursuant to I.C.
34-1-52-1. A legal or equitable owner of such real estate is deemed to have
knowledge of such activity upon receipt of notice as set forth herein. For
purposes of this chapter, an owner of real estate is defined as any person who
alone or jointly or severally with others shall have legal or equitable title
to any dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (C)   Notice is deemed to be given to the owner upon receipt of notice as
indicated in division (B) of this section by the owner of record pursuant to
the records and files of the DeKalb County or Stueben County Assessor’s Office.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to encourage or authorize
the discrimination by lessors against any person or persons based upon race,
creed, religion, sex, age or national origin. Rather, it is the intent of this
section to hold persons accountable for acquiescing in or participating in the
continued use of his or her property as the location of illegal drug activity,
after having received notice as set forth in division (B) of this section.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 9-2-03) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 REPORTS, INVESTIGATIONS AND NOTICES BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A complaint or report of suspected illegal activities constituting the
use or sale of narcotics or controlled substances, or conduct constituting a
nuisance pursuant to I.C. 34-1-52-1, by tenants, occupants and/or their
visitors, guests or invitees as observed by the lessor, third persons such as
other tenants of the property, or persons residing or working in the vicinity
of the property, or city officials, and/or representatives of agencies and/or
departments of the town shall be submitted to the office of the Town Marshal
and each such report or complaint shall be individually logged in that office.
   (B)   Upon receipt of any report or complaint of such suspected illegal
activities on real estate premises, a determination shall be made by the town,
Town Marshal, and/or other law enforcement agencies as to the need for and
nature of any further investigation including, but not limited to, the
necessity for surveillance by the Town Marshal of such real estate premises.
   (C)   Upon completion of the investigation by the Town Marshal revealing
that such suspected illegal activity is taking place at a particular premises,
a warning letter shall be sent by the Town Marshal to the owner of the real
estate and a copy to the tenant/occupant whose premises are the subject of the
investigation, by certified mail, return receipt requested, informing the owner
that the investigation revealed the suspected illegal activity and the fact
that there is an ongoing investigation. The warning letter shall inform the
owner of his or her choice to take action to abate such suspected illegal
activity and of the intent of the Town Marshal, it its ongoing investigation
indicates such suspected illegal activity has not ceased, to take further legal
action.
   (D)   Once a search warrant has been obtained to search the real estate
premises for narcotics or controlled substances, or for any other evidence
related to such suspected illegal activity, a second letter shall be sent which
shall inform the owner that the warrant was served, that the investigation at
the premises is continuing and that legal proceedings may be commenced pursuant
to this chapter. The letter shall inform the owner of his or her choice to take
some form of remedial action. A copy of the letter shall be sent to the Town
Marshal, the town attorney’s office and to the tenant/occupant of the premises
for which a search warrant is obtained.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a copy of the second letter issued under division (D)
of this section, the town attorney’s office may proceed under I.C. 34-1-52-2(b)
to abate or enjoin any suspected illegal activity as defined herein
constituting a nuisance as defined in I.C. 34-1-52-1, and/or to advise the Town
Marshal to issue a notice pursuant to §
132.01. The notice shall advise that legal proceedings may be instituted
against the owner of the real estate pursuant to this chapter and shall also
inform the owner of his or her choice to commence eviction proceedings pursuant
to §
132.04.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 9-2-03) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 CRITERIA FOR ESTABLISHING VIOLATION.
   Conviction for a violation of this chapter will be determined by the
appropriate judicial authority based upon the totality of the circumstances
present, including, but not limited to, that the owner has received notices of
suspected illegal activity pursuant to §§
132.01,
132.02 and
132.03.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 9-2-03)
§ 132.04 EVICTION PROCEEDINGS AS DEFENSE.
   No person shall be charged with a violation of this chapter if such person:
   (A)   Has instituted eviction proceedings within 30 days of receipt of the
notice of criminal activities in accordance with §§
132.01 or
132.02 against the tenant whose suspected criminal activities would otherwise
give rise to potential liability under this chapter; and
   (B)   Has completed the eviction proceedings within 30 days of the
commencement of the proceedings.
   (C)   If any eviction proceedings are not completed within 30 days by reason
of court ordered delays in the proceedings, the person charged with a violation
of this chapter must, nonetheless, move forward expeditiously with any such
eviction proceedings.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 9-2-03)
§ 132.05 MULTIPLE DWELLING UNITS.
   In the case of a multiple unit dwelling, the only person or persons
necessary to name in an eviction proceeding is the tenant/occupant occupying
the actual unit involved with the suspected illegal activity described in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 9-2-03)
§ 132.06 FILING OF CRIMINAL CHARGES.
   Charging an owner of real estate with a violation of this chapter shall be
an adjunct to, and not substitution for, any criminal charges filed as a result
of investigation by the Town Marshal against occupants or tenants of that
owner’s real estate premises for use or sale of illicit drugs or controlled
dangerous substances, or conduct constituting a nuisance pursuant to I.C. 34-1-
52-1.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 9-2-03)
§ 132.07 ASSISTANCE BY TOWN MARSHAL.
   The Town Marshal shall use reasonable efforts to train, educate and assist
owners of real estate in avoiding placing tenants or occupants in their real
estate who are known violators of illegal activities enumerated in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 9-2-03)
§ 132.08 LIMITED INDEMNIFICATION OF OWNERS OF REAL ESTATE.
   The town shall provide a limited indemnification to an owner of real estate
located in the town, subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   That the owner of the real estate shall have received the written
notice required by §§
132.01 or
132.02 from the Town Marshal advising that a present occupant or tenant of the
property of that owner of real estate has been using or selling illicit
narcotics or controlled dangerous substances or allowing the using or selling
of illicit narcotics or controlled dangerous substances at that property, or
has otherwise been engaging in or allowing activity constituting a nuisance
pursuant to I.C. 34-1-52-1.
   (B)   That the owner of the real estate has instituted eviction proceedings
within 30 days of receipt of notice of suspected illegal activities in
accordance with §§
132.01 or
132.02 against a tenant whose suspected criminal activities would otherwise
give rise to potential liability under this chapter.
   (C)   That the owner of the real estate shall give no less than 30 days
notice to the town attorney, by certified mail, return-receipt requested, of
the trial date for any eviction proceedings and a list containing the names and
addresses of all witnesses the owner of the real estate intends to call at the
hearing.
   (D)   That the town attorney, upon receipt of the notice and list of
witnesses, shall have the right to provide the owner of the real estate with
the names and addresses of additional other witnesses, including, but not
limited to, witnesses from the Town Marshal whose presence shall be required at
the hearing on the eviction proceedings.
   (E)   All witnesses listed by either the owner of the real estate and/or the
town attorney’s office shall be subpoenaed by the owner of the real estate in
proper and legal fashion. Violation of this chapter
shall be an adjunct to, and not substitution for, any criminal charges filed as
a result of investigation by the Town Marshal against occupants or tenants of
that owner’s real estate premises for use or sale of illicit drugs or
controlled dangerous substances, or conduct constituting a nuisance pursuant to
I.C. 34-1-52-1.
   (F)   The tenant involved as a defendant in the eviction proceedings shall
prevail on the merits, not by reason of procedural irregularities, but by sole
reason that a court finds after trial that the illegal activity alleged in the
notice the owner of the real estate has received pursuant to §§
132.01 or
132.02 did not, in fact, take place.
   (G)   The tenant institutes legal proceedings against the owner of real
estate in the form of a counterclaim or separate action and obtains a judgment
for damages against the owner of the real estate by reason of the tenant having
prevailed on the merits in accordance with division (F) of this section.
   (H)   The owner of the real estate completes whatever steps he or she
chooses to undertake to seek review of the judgment by motion to correct errors
and/or appeal.
   (I)   The limited indemnification by the town shall be restricted solely to
those damages assessed by judgment against the owner of the real estate as set
out in this chapter but shall not, in any event, include any attorney’s fees
incurred by the owner of the real estate in connection with the enforcement of
any of the terms of this chapter, but will include either the reasonable
attorney’s fees incurred in the defense of legal proceedings brought by a
tenant pursuant to division (G) of this section regardless of the outcome of
the proceedings, or the provision of the legal services by the town, at the
town’s option.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 9-2-03)
§ 132.09 LIST TO BE KEPT BY TOWN MARSHAL.
   The Town Marshal shall keep a list of the names and addresses of all
tenants/occupants to whom copies of letters are sent pursuant to this chapter,
and shall make the names available to members of the public requesting the same
in reference to potential renters of real estate in the town.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 9-2-03)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine of up to $2,500 and costs of prosecution. Each
day a violation of this chapter continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 9-2-03)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
APPENDIX: DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR MOVING OF BUILDINGS
      
151.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
         
APPENDIX: FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATES
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   PLANNING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code - General Requirements
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Authority
Miscellaneous
   
150.17   Moving of buildings
Unsafe Building Code
   
150.25   Title
   
150.26   Purpose and scope
   
150.27   Definitions
   
150.28   Repairs, rehabilitation, alterations or additions
   
150.29   Enforcement authority
   
150.30   Hearing authority
   
150.31   Unsafe building
   
150.32   Conduct of hearing
   
150.33   Amendments to Indiana Code
   
150.34   Fund established
Building Permits
   
150.45   Building permit required
   
150.46   Application for building permit
   
150.47   Issuance of building permit
   
150.48   Certificate of occupancy
Investigations and Inspections of Construction Activities
   
150.55   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
150.56   Inspections by Fire Department
Minimum Construction Standards
   
150.70   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.71   Lifting devices located within a private residence
Enforcement and Penalties
   
150.90   Violations
   
150.91   Withhold issuance of permits
   
150.92   Permit revocation
   
150.93   Stop-work order
   
150.94   Civil action
   
150.95   Right of appeal
 
   
150.99   Penalty
   
Appendix: Documents required for moving of buildings
BUILDING CODE - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter and §§
150.45 et seq.,
150.55 et seq.,
150.70 et seq.,
150.90 et seq. and
150.99, all material included herein by reference shall be known as the
"Building Code of Hamilton, Indiana.”
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Building Code is to protect the life, public safety,
health and general welfare of the citizens of Hamilton, Indiana, and shall be
construed in such a manner to effectuate this purpose, but shall not be
construed as assurance thereof.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Building Code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Steuben County Department of Building Safety and
any individuals employed thereby or that are authorized to represent the
Steuben County Department of Building Safety.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4:
      (1)   Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupies or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public.
            2.   Three or more tenants.
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1)(a) above.
         (c)   Outdoor stage equipment. This division expires January 1, 2014.
         (d)   Any class of buildings or structures that the commission (as
defined in I.C. 22-12-1-6 as amended from time to time) determines by rules to
affect a building or structure described in division (1)(a) above, except
buildings or structures described in divisions (3) through (6).
      (2)   Division (1)(a) includes a structure that contains three or more
condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) does not include a building or structure that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Divisions (1)(a) does not include a structure that is intended to
be or is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to
the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. 
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5, any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the building or
structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1)(a),
such as a garage, barn, or family swimming pool, including an above ground
swimming pool, unless any part of the outbuilding is regularly used as a Class
1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1) does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site.
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used.
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication, or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class
2 structure at the site where it will be used.
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate, or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, any part of a
building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part fabricated
in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the
building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another
building or structure. However, INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM does not include
a mobile structure or system that is capable of inspection at the building
site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16, MANUFACTURED HOME has the
meaning set forth in 42 U.S.C. 5402 as it existed on January 1, 2003. This
definition is as follows: "Manufactured home" means a structure transportable
in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or
more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is
320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed
to be used as a  dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected
to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-
conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such terms
shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph
except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer
voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development and complies with the standards established under this 42
U.S.C. 5401 et seq. and except that such term shall not include any self-
propelled recreational vehicle.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. 
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17, any part of a fabricated unit that is
designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another structure.
      (2)   MOBILE STRUCTURE includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity.
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable but designed to be
joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, an individual, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, unincorporated association, or governmental
entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, any bridge that is neither:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles;
suspended between two or more parts of a building or between two or more
buildings.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05)
§ 150.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this Building Code.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this Building Code shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this Building Code and the rules promulgated
by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any
construction related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure
not certified under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this Building Code is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05)
§ 150.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this Building Code.
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11.
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 150.17 MOVING OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to move or cause
to be moved any building, house, barn, or other structure of any kind in,
along, or upon any street, alley, or public ground in the town which will bring
the structure in contact with any telegraph, telephone, electric light,
electric power, cable transmission line, or of such size as it will affect the
orderly flow of vehicular traffic without first obtaining a permit therefor
from the Town Council or its designee, hereinafter referred to as the
"Council". Such permit shall be known as a "House Moving Permit".
   (B)   Application for permit. Any person desiring such a permit shall file
with the Clerk-Treasurer an application therefor in writing on a form to be
furnished by the town for that purpose. The application shall specify the
following:
      (1)   The character and size of the building to be moved;
      (2)   The reason for moving;
      (3)   The use, purpose and occupancy for which the building or structure
is to be used;
      (4)   The location from which and to which the building is to be moved;
      (5)   A plot plan showing the proposed location of the building upon the
property to which the building is to be moved, provided the location is in the
town;
      (6)   The streets on, over or through which it is desired to move the
building;
      (7)   Whether the building conforms to the zoning laws in the location to
which it is to be moved;
      (8)   The date on which the building is to be moved.
   (C)   Investigation. Upon the filing of the application, the Zoning
Administrator or any other person or official designated by the Council to make
such investigation, shall cause an investigation to be made of the building,
and a report shall be issued to the companies owning or controlling any
telegraph, telephone, electric light, electric power, and cable transmission
line, and to the Town Street Department. The Council also reserves the right to
conduct the investigation itself.
   (D)   Denial of permit.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued to move any building or structure which,
in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator:
         (a)   Is so dilapidated, defective, unsightly or in such a condition
of deterioration or disrepair that its relocation at the proposed site would
cause appreciable harm to or be materially detrimental to the property or
improvements in the district within a radius of 1,000 feet from the proposed
site;
         (b)   If the proposed use is prohibited by the zoning laws of the
town;
         (c)   If the structure is of a type prohibited at the proposed
location by any ordinance of the town.
      (2)   Provided, however, that if the condition of the building or
structure, in the judgment of the Zoning Administrator, admits of practicable
and effective repair, the permit may be issued upon the terms and conditions as
set forth herein.
   (E)   Terms and conditions of permit.  
      (1)   When a housing moving permit is granted, such terms and conditions
as may be deemed reasonable and proper may be imposed, including, but not
limited to, the public streets or other public property in the town on, over or
through which the building or structure shall be moved, and the requirements of
changes, alterations, additions or repairs to be made to or upon the building
or structure, to the end that the relocation thereof will not be materially
detrimental or injurious to public safety or to public welfare or to the
property and improvements, or either, in the district to which it is to be
moved.
      (2)   The terms and conditions shall be written upon the permit or
appended in writing thereto.
   (F)   Owner's completion bond. Before the Council shall issue a house moving
permit, the applicant shall file with the Council a corporate security bond
conditioned on the faithful and prompt performance of the work according to the
specifications in the permit; and to secure the town against damage to its
streets and the property owners of the town against damage to their private
property and also against damage to other property belonging to the town. The
bond shall be in a form approved by the town's attorney. In lieu of posting a
corporate surety bond, the applicant, owner, or lessee may post a cash deposit
in the amount of the bond.
   (G)   Fees. A permit fee in the sum of $50 shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer for the issuance of each house moving permit.
   (H)   Suspension or revocation of permit. The Council, at any time, for
sufficient cause, may revoke or suspend any permit granted under this section.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 8-7-00)
UNSAFE BUILDING CODE
§ 150.25 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Hamilton Unsafe Building Law and
hereby adopts by reference the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq. in its
entirety, as may be amended from time to time, as the Hamilton Unsafe Building
Law. For the sake of brevity, the Hamilton Unsafe Building Law shall be
referred to in the balance of this subchapter by the acronym HUBL.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 7-1-02)
§ 150.26 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of the HUBL to provide a just, equitable, and
practical method whereby buildings or structures which from any cause may
endanger or impair life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or welfare of
the general public or the occupants of such buildings and structures may be
required to be repaired, vacated or demolished. The provisions of the HUBL are
not exclusive but are cumulative and in addition to any other remedy provided
by the Town Building Code, other provisions of the Hamilton Town Code or are
otherwise available by any state or local law, rule or ordinance.
   (B)   The provisions of the HUBL shall apply to all unsafe or dangerous
buildings, as defined herein, which are now in existence or which may hereafter
become dangerous or unsafe in the jurisdiction of the town.
   (C)   All buildings or structures that are required to be repaired shall
comply with the provisions of the Town Building Code and all applicable
regulations and building codes of the County of DeKalb in the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 7-1-02)
§ 150.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning or as specified
in the Town's Building Code.
   BUILDING CODE. The Town Building Code promulgated by the Town Council and
found at §
150.01 et seq. of the Hamilton Town Code.
   DEPARTMENT. The Hamilton Town Council is the DEPARTMENT that is authorized
to administer the HUBL.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY shall be the Town Zoning
Administrator or any other designee of the Town Zoning Administrator.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Hamilton Town Council shall be the HEARING AUTHORITY.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY
INTEREST as found in I.C. 36-7-9-2, as may be amended from time to time, is
incorporated herein by reference.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure deemed to be unsafe under the
provisions of the HUBL or otherwise in violation of the terms of this chapter,
the Town Building Code or other applicable local, county, or state building
codes or regulations. An UNSAFE BUILDING may also be referred to for purposes
of this code as a dangerous building.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 7-1-02)
§ 150.28 REPAIRS, REHABILITATION, ALTERATION OR ADDITIONS.
   All buildings or structures which are required to be repaired,
rehabilitated, altered or are subject to an addition under the provisions of
the HUBL shall be so done according to the requirements of the building codes
adopted by the town and all other applicable building codes, state, county,
local or otherwise.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 7-1-02)
§ 150.29 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Generally.  The Enforcement Authority, defined herein as the Town
Zoning Administrator or any other person designated by the Town Zoning
Administrator is authorized to enforce the provision of the HUBL. The Town
Zoning Administrator shall have the power to render interpretations of the HUBL
and to adopt and enforce rules and regulations supplemental to the HUBL as he
may deem necessary in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such
interpretations, rules and regulations shall conform with the intent and
purpose of the HUBL.
   (B)   Inspections.  The Town's Health Officer, Fire Chief, Zoning
Administrator or any other person designated by the Zoning Administrator are
hereby authorized to make inspections and to take such action as may be
required to enforce the HUBL, or to determine if applicable codes are being
followed or if a building is an unsafe building, the Enforcement Authority may
enter the building or premises at reasonable times to inspect the premises and
to perform the duties imposed by the HURL, provided that if such building or
premises be occupied that credentials be presented to the occupant and entry
requested. If such building or premises be unoccupied, the Enforcement
Authority shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or any other
person having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry.
If entry is refused, the Enforcement Authority shall have all remedies as
provided by law to secure entry.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 7-1-02)
§ 150.30 HEARING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Town Council shall act as the Unsafe Building Hearing Authority.
All findings and decisions shall be rendered in writing and furnished to those
persons or parties subject to the order.
   (B)   All hearings shall be held pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-
7, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   The Hamilton Town Council as the hearing authority shall have no
discretion relative to the interpretation of the administrative provisions of
the HUBL, nor shall the Hamilton Town Council as the hearing authority be
empowered to waive any of the requirements of the HUBL.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 7-1-02)
§ 150.31 UNSAFE BUILDING.
   For purposes of the HUBL, any building or structure, or part of a building
or structure that is: (1) in an impaired structural condition that makes it
unsafe to a person or property; (2) a fire hazard; (3) a hazard to the public
health; (4) a public nuisance; (5) dangerous to a person or property because of
a violation of a statute or ordinance concerning building conditions or
maintenance; or (6) vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow
human habitation, occupancy or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance is an unsafe building. Any building or structure which has any or all
of the following conditions or defects shall be deemed an unsafe building:
   (A)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit
is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
   (B)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
   (C)   Whenever the stress on any materials, member or portion thereof, due
to all dead and live loads, is more then 1 ½ times the working stress or
stresses allowed in the Building Code for new buildings or similar structure,
purpose or location.
   (D)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and less than the minimum requirements of the Building Code for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location.
   (E)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
   (F)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place, so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified in the
Building Code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location
without exceeding the workings tresses permitted in the Building Code for such
buildings.
   (G)   Whenever any portion thereof has racked, warped, buckled or settled to
such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction.
   (H)   Whenever the building or structure or any portion thereof, because of:
(1) dilapidation, deterioration or decay; (2) faulty construction; (3) the
removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the
purposes of supporting such building; (4) the deterioration, decay or
inadequacy of its foundation; or (5) any other cause, is likely to partially or
completely collapse.
   (I)   Whenever for any reason the building or structure or any portion
thereof is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
   (J)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle 1/3 of the base.
   (K)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50%
damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or outside
wall coverings.
   (L)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become:
(1) an attractive nuisance to children; (2) a harbor for criminals or vagrants;
or (3) as to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing
infractions, felonies or misdemeanors under the laws of the State of Indiana or
the United States.
   (M)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the building regulations of this
town, as specified in the Building Code, or of any law or ordinance of this
state or town relating to the condition, location or structure of the
buildings.
   (N)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and
occupancy in the same location.
   (O)   Whenever any building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities or otherwise, is determined by the health officer to be unsanitary,
unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that it is likely to cause
or contribute to sickness or disease.
   (P)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electrical wiring, gas
connections or heating apparatus or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal to be a fire hazard.
   (Q)   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or in equity.
   (R)   Whenever any portion of the building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
otherwise a hazard to the public.
   (S)   Inadequate or insufficient bath, toilet or kitchen facilities.
   (T)   Inadequate or insufficient water supply or water supply systems.
   (U)   Inadequate or insufficient or other deficient air cooling, air heating
or water heating equipment.
   (V)   Any condition or conditions in violation of other applicable
ordinances of the town, and/or the building standards or codes of the county or
the state.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 7-1-02)
§ 150.32 CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   (A)   Rules. Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses.
   (B)   Testimony. Testimony shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.
   (C)   Hearsay. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing
or explaining any direct evidence.
   (D)   Admissibility of Evidence. Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if
it is the type of evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely
on in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common
law or statutory rule which might make improper the admission of such evidence
over objection in civil actions in a court of competent jurisdiction in this
state.
   (E)   Exclusion of Evidence. Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence
shall be excluded.
   (F)   Rights of Parties. Each party shall have the rights provided by I.C.
36-7-9-1 et seq including:
      (1)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issue
of the hearing.
      (2)   To introduce documentary and physical evidence.
      (3)   To cross exam opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing.
      (4)   To impeach any witness regardless of which party called the witness
to testify.
      (5)   To rebut any evidence.
      (6)   To represent himself or to be represented by an attorney duly
admitted to practice law in the State of Indiana.
   (G)   Inspection of Premises. The Town Council as the hearing authority may
inspect any building or premises involved in a hearing during the course of the
hearing provided that: (1) notice of such inspection shall be given to the
parties before the inspection is made; (2) the parties are given the
opportunity to be present during the inspection; and (3) the Town Council shall
state for the record upon completion of the inspection the material facts
observed and the conclusions drawn therefrom.
   (H)   Official Notice.
      (1)   In reaching a decision, the Town Council as hearing authority may
take official notice, either before or after submission of the case for
decision, any fact or official record of any board or department of the town,
the ordinance of the town, rules and regulations of the Town Council, and of
any notices or inspections issued by or done by the town or any of its agents.
      (2)   All parties present at a hearing shall be informed of the matters
to be noticed, and these matters shall be noted in the record, referred to
therein or appended thereto.
      (3)   Parties present at the hearing shall be given a reasonable
opportunity, on request, to refute the officially noticed matters by evidence
or by written or oral presentation of authority, the manner of such refutation
to be determined by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 7-1-02)
§ 150.33 AMENDMENTS TO INDIANA CODE.
   It is the specific intent of this ordinance to incorporate all future
amendments or changes to I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq., as amended from time to time,
as amendments to the Town's Unsafe Building Law, as they are enacted and
defined in said statute.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 7-1-02)
§ 150.34 FUND ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created an Unsafe Building Fund for the deposit of and the
disposition of any funds collected pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 7-1-02)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.45 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building
permit obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of
construction.
   (B)   All construction done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in
full compliance with all other ordinances pertaining thereto and in addition to
the fees for permits hereinafter provided, there shall be paid the fees that
otherwise prescribed by the Town Council, which fees may be prescribed in this
Building Code or by separate resolution. Whenever any regulation set forth
herein conflicts with any other ordinance the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.46 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant.
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished.
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets,
curbs and sidewalks.
      (4)   If required by Indiana law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3.
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
      (6)   The fee established by the Building Commissioner.
      (7)   The improvement location permit as issued by the Town of Hamilton.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner shall also review building permit
applications for construction or substantial improvements to determine whether
proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   (E)   The Building Commissioner shall also review all building permit
applications for major repairs within the flood plain area having special flood
hazards to determine that the proposed repair:
      (1)   Uses construction material and utility equipment that are resistant
to damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction method and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (F)   The Building Commissioner shall review building permit applications
for new construction or substantial improvements within the flood plain having
special flood hazards to assure that the proposed construction:
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed or modified and anchored to prevent floatation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      (3)   Is designed to prevent flood damage; and
      (4)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.47 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee,
provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable building
laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.48 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No land or structure maybe used or occupied unless a certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the Steuben County Building Commissioner or the
DeKalb County Zoning Administrator. The County Commissioner or County Zoning
Administrator or such other official duly authorized by the Town Council, shall
issue a certificate of occupancy, but only after receipt of a certificate of
compliance from the Town's Zoning Administrator. The certificate of compliance
will be issued by the Town's Zoning Administrator after an inspection by the
Zoning Administrator to determine that all of the conditions and limitations
contained in the improvement location permit have been meant. In addition, the
holder of the improvement location permit may be required to furnish to the
town an as built survey upon completion of the construction as permitted, which
as built survey, if required, must be furnished prior to the issuance of the
Certificate of Compliance. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or
structure unless a certificate of occupancy has been issued.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
§ 150.55 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this Building Code or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this Building Code and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission and in addition to ascertain whether the
construction is being performed in a good and workman like manner according to
the accepted standards and practices in the trade as established in the
community.
   (C)   In order to establish that the foundation of the improvement permitted
by the improvement location permit and building permit is properly located on
the premises, the holder of the permits is required to furnish the Hamilton
Zoning Administrator a copy of the foundation permit/inspection as issued by
the Building Commissioner. The Zoning Administrator shall then inspect the
foundation to determine whether it has been located according to the
improvement location permit. If not, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the
Building Commissioner who shall issue a stop work order.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.56 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work cooperatively
to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance with fire
safety laws. (The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17).
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 150.70 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention Commission as set out in the following Articles of Title 675 of the
Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in this code
and shall include any later amendments to those rules.
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes.
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards.
         (b)   Indiana Building Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - Indiana Residential Code.
      (3)   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code.
      (5)   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
      (8)   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code.
      (9)   Article 24 - Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code.
      (10)   Article 25 - Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the Office of the Clerk for the legislative body for public
inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this Building Code. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance
granted by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been
approved by Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05)
§ 150.71 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2010, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANS11ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18. a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chairlifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18. a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chairlifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A 18.1 a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the Office of the Clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05)
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 150.90 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, or occupy or maintain any
building or structure other than fences, in the town or cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of the Building
Code.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.91 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees to the Building Commissioner
(including checks returned for insufficient funds) to the Building
Commissioner, the Building Commissioner may withhold the issuance of
subsequently requested permits until such time as that the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05)
§ 150.92 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact.
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures.
   (C)   There is failure to comply with the Building Code.
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.93 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop-work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance.
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place.
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner's agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this Building Code or any
state law pertaining to safety during construction.
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this Building Code or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation.
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this Building Code.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.94 CIVIL ACTION.
   The Building Commissioner may initiate a civil action pursuant to I.C. 36-1-
6-4 in the name of the town, in the Circuit or Superior Courts of Steuben
County or DeKalb County, bring a civil action to enjoin any person from
violating any provisions of this Building Code including an action to secure
compliance with any order or orders made by the Building Commissioner. Any
action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to
recover the penalties provided for in this Building Code. Suits are to be
initiated in the County where the property is located.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05)
§ 150.95 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this Building Code shall have
the right to petition for review of any order of the Building Commissioner.
Such a person may file a petition using either, or both, of the following
procedures:
   (A)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
      (1)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this Building Code may
appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
      (2)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the town
that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C. 22-
15, a fire safety, or a building rule.
      (3)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
      (4)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review all
other orders issued under this Building Code.
      (5)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any statute in
which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the order.
   (B)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court. If,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the town has established by ordinance to hear
appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person aggrieved by an order
may petition for review with this administrative body in accordance with that
ordinance. If no such administrative body exists, then the person may petition
a court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this Building Code may be subject to a
fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty
shall in no way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this
Building Code.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-6-05)
APPENDIX: DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR MOVING OF BUILDINGS
   TOWN OF HAMILTON, IN APPLICATION FOR MOVING OF BUILDING
   1.   Name, address and phone number of owner of record.
   2.   Describe the building to be moved, including its size.
   3.    State the reason for moving the building.
   4.   State the use, purpose and occupancy for which the building is to be
used after it is moved.
   5.   Give the present location of the building.
   6.   Give the location to which the building will be moved.
   7.   If the new location is to be in the Town, attach a plot plan showing
the proposed location of the building upon the property: (See attached)
   8.   List all of the streets on, over, or through which it is desired to
move said building and describe the route.
   9.   Does the zoning permit the building in the new location?
      (Yes) (No)
   10.   State the name, address and phone number of the contractor moving the
building.
   Date:
                                                                                                      
                                    Signature of Applicant
I/we acknowledge receipt of Ordinance No. 2000-03, regulating the moving of
buildings, and agree to be bound by the terms of that Ordinance if the Town of
Hamilton grants a moving permit.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 8-7-00)
   INVESTIGATION CHECK LIST
   1.   Conduct an on-site investigation and investigation of the described
route.
   2.   Verify zoning of the new location and whether the structure is
permitted by zoning in the new location.
   3.   State the required cash deposit to cover the costs described in
division (F) of the Ordinance.
   4.   Obtain Certificate of Liability Insurance as required by the town.
   5.   Obtain completion bond required by division (F) of the Ordinance.
   6.   Has approval been obtained from the following utilities:
      (a)   Town Water Department;
      (b)   Regional Sewer District;
      (c)   Electric Company;
      (d)   Gas Company;
      (e)   Telephone Company;
      (f)   Cable TV Company.
   7.   $50 permit fee paid?      (Yes)   (No)
   8.   $50 inspection fee paid?      (Yes)   (No)
   9.   Has the Chief of Police approved the route?   (Yes)   (No)
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 8-7-00)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives; Definitions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
General Provisions
   
151.10   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.11   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
151.12   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.13   Compliance
   
151.14   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.15   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
151.16   Interpretation
   
151.17   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.18   Increased cost of compliance (ICC)
Administration
   
151.30   Designation of Administrator
   
151.31   Permit procedures
   
151.32   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.40   General standards
   
151.41   Specific standards
   
151.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.43   Critical facility
   
151.44   Standards for identified floodways
   
151.45   Standards for identified fringe
   
151.46   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
151.47   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
151.60   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.61   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.62   Variance procedures
   
151.63   Conditions for variances
   
151.64   Variance notification
   
151.65   Historic structure
   
151.66   Special conditions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES; DEFINITIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 and I.C. 14-28-4 granted the
power to local government units to control land use within their jurisdictions.
Therefore, the Town Council of the Town of Hamilton does hereby adopt the
following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the Town of Hamilton are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A) To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas;
   (G)   To ensure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM or FHBM. The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   ZONE A: Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30: Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO: Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
shallow flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths
are between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (4)   ZONE AH: Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
shallow flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between
one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic
analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (5)   ZONE AR: Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (6)   ZONE A99: Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. Zone A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory structures should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory
structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the Regular
Program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.  
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including
but not limited to:
      (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
      (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
      (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
      (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (g)   Storage of materials; or
      (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure's
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the community's first floodplain
ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP (as related to variances of this chapter). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Town of
Hamilton Town Council requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
NOT exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,1997,
will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA's determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars;
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the wails by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls having a total net area of one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all such openings shall
be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the interior grade
immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned
by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel, and the
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. Market value can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION.  Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
mitigation is two-fold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
cost of disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community's first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter "A" is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See REGULATORY FLOOD)
   ONE-PERCENT (1%) ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter "A" is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See REGULATORY FLOOD)
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana  Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
151.11. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, ONE-PERCENT
(1%)ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and ONE HUNDRED YEAR (100-YEAR) FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event for
which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdictions of
the Town of Hamilton subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs
of the town are generally identified as such on the Steuben County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, dated December 17, 2013 and the DeKalb County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated September 29, 2006; as well
as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date. The SFHAs of those parts
of unincorporated Steuben County and De Kalb County that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town of Hamilton or that may be annexed
into the town are generally identified as such on the Steuben County, Indiana
and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated December 17, 2013 and the DeKalb County,
Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated September 29,
2006 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are
shown on a FHBM or FIRM as Zones A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not  occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantia! improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration
of an historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as an historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD) (other datum where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the severity
or type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.10 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the Town of Hamilton.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.11 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter's protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below. Whenever a party disagrees
with the best available data, the party submitting the detailed engineering
study needs to replace existing data with better data and submit it to the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for review and approval.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the Town of Hamilton shall be as
delineated on the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study
of Steuben County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas dated December 17, 2013 and
the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map dated December 17, 2013 and the
Flood Insurance Study of De Kalb County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas dated
September 29, 2006 and the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated September 29, 2006 as well as
any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the Town of Hamilton, delineated as an
"A Zone" on the Steuben County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance
Rate Map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated December
17, 2013 and the De Kalb County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance
Rate Map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated
September 29, 2006 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13; Am. Ord. passed 12-23-13)
§ 151.12 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.13 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.14 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.15 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA and the
floodplain regulations will not be applied. The property owner should be
advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.16 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body;
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.17 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the Town of Hamilton, the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.18 INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
   In order for buildings to qualify for a claim payment under ICC coverage as
a repetitive loss structure, the National Reform Act of 1994 requires that the
building be covered by a contract for flood insurance and incur flood-related
damages on two occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of the
event for which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the
flood damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of
the building at the time of each such flood event.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.30 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Council of the Town of Hamilton hereby appoints the Zoning
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is
herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.31 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage. Upon placement of the lowest floor, or
floodproofing, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of
the lowest floor or floodproofed elevation, as built. Said certification shall
be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. When floodproofing is utilized
for a particular structure said certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holders' risk. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest
floor and floodproofing elevation survey data submitted.) The permit holder
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.32 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby authorized
and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Administrator is
further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter, which are
consistent with its spirit and purpose. Duties and responsibilities of the
Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
   (C)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to §§
151.44 and
151.46(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
   (D)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been received
prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies of such
permits are to be maintained on file with the floodplain development permit.
   (E)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of such
notifications to FEMA.
   (F)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local permit
documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage determinations,
regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letters of
Map Revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and "as-built" elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter.
   (G)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Revision (LOMR) or Physical Map
Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
   (H)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   (I)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
151.31.
   (J)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
151.31.
   (K)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
   (L)   Stop work orders:
      (1)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state
the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (M)   Revocation of permits:
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the ordinance, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter.
   (N)   Inspect sites for compliance. For all new and/or substantially
improved buildings constructed in the SFHA, inspect before, during and after
construction. Authorized town officials shalf have the right to enter and
inspect properties located in the SFHA.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not further extended, or replaced.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by flood water, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood water.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory flood water.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
151.40, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet.
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure:
         (a)   Where the cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds
50% of the value of the existing structure (excluding the value of the land).
         (b)   With a previous addition or improvement constructed since the
community's first floodplain ordinance.
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage.
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
   (B)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor; including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below. Structures located in all "A Zones" may be floodproofed in
lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
151.32(J).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human Intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures. 
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (d)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (e)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (f)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         (g)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
         (h)   Where elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the
conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to
the structure's originally approved design, shall be presented as a condition
of issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method.
      (2)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the FPG.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than 3 horizontal to 1 vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement. This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site:
         (a)   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision that has not been substantially damaged by a flood.
      (3)   Manufactured homes with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls as required for elevated structures in division (D) above.
      (4)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame or
foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days; and
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A) All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted In the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.43 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.44 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
151.11, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of non-substantial additions/improvements to residences in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval (construction in a floodway permit) for the fill is required from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in the floodway. Once a permit for
construction in a floodway has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
151.40 through
151.47 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community's more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory flood more
than 0.14 of one foot.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.45 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
151.40 through
151.47 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.46 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment citing the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the
recommended flood protection grade has been received from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, a floodplain development permit may be
issued provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in §§
151.40 through
151.47 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and one-percent annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
151.40 through
151.47 have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not increase flood damages
or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.47 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
151.40 through
151.47.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 151.60 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.61 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the circuit or superior
courts as provided in Indiana Statutes.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.62 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site;
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.63 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship;
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
151.44 or
151.46(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
151.44 or
151.46(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
151.41, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (see §
151.64).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (see §
151.64).
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.64 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.65 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.66 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter, and the
purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the Zoning Code for the Town of Hamilton. All violations
shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,500.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Town of Hamilton Town Council shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the County from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-7-13)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Jurisdiction
   
152.04   Compliance with plat and approval procedures required
   
152.05   Minimum requirements
   
152.06   Definitions
   
152.07   Exemption from formal platting procedures
   
152.08   Administrative divisions
Subdivision Platting Procedure
   
152.20   Pre-application procedure
   
152.21   Procedure for approval of preliminary plat
   
152.22   Data for approval of preliminary plat
   
152.24   Data for final plat approval
   
152.25   Accompanying documents
Design Layout Standards
   
152.35   Streets
   
152.36   Blocks
   
152.37   Lots
   
152.38   Natural features
   
152.39   Soil limitations
   
152.40   Park facilities
Required Improvements
   
152.50   Minimum standards; completion of improvements required
   
152.51   Monuments and markers
   
152.52   Streets and alleys
   
152.53   Curbs and gutters
   
152.54   Sidewalks
   
152.55   Storm drainage
   
152.56   Water supply
   
152.57   Sewage disposal
   
152.58   Street name signs, traffic control signs
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.70   Enforcement officer
   
152.71   Inspection at subdivider's expense
   
152.72   Improvement location permits; building permits
   
152.73   Variances and modifications
   
152.74   Resubdivision
   
152.75   Amendments
   
152.76   Appeals
   
152.77   Subdivision master plan
   
Appendix: Final Plat Certificates
Statutory reference:
   Subdivision control, see I.C. 36-7-4-700 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision Regulations
of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana.”
('88 Code, § 10-9-1) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are as follows:
   (A)   Guidance of future growth and development in accordance with the
Comprehensive Planning process.
   (B)   Protection and conservation of the value of land, buildings, and other
improvements upon the land, and minimization of the conflicts among the uses of
land and buildings.
   (C)   Guidance of public and private policy and action to assure adequate
and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, drainage, and
other public requirements and facilities.
   (D)   Avoidance of scattered and uncontrolled subdivision of land that would
result in the unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds, for the supply of services that are a part of community infrastructure.
   (E)   Establishment of reasonable standards of design and minimum
requirements for the creation, installation and improvement of physical
facilities which are, or will be, maintained for the benefit of the general
public.
   (F)   Establishment of reasonable standards and procedures for subdivision
and resubdivision, in order to further the orderly layout and use of land, to
insure proper legal descriptions and documenting of subdivided land.
   (G)   Administration of these regulations by defining the powers and duties
of approval authorities and the manner and form making, filing and processing
of any plat.
('88 Code, § 10-9-2) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.03 JURISDICTION.
   These subdivision regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of land, as
defined herein, located within the boundaries of the town or its recorded
jurisdictional area.
('88 Code, § 10-9-3) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.04 COMPLIANCE WITH PLAT AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES REQUIRED.
   (A)   When any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out, the
subdivider thereof or his agent shall submit a preliminary and final plat to
the Plan Commission. No plat shall be filed with the Auditor or recorded by the
Recorder of Steuben County or DeKalb County until approval has been given in
writing on the plat by the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Until plats and plans for the subdivision are approved, properly
endorsed and recorded, no land shall be offered for sale, and no improvements
shall be permitted to the land.
('88 Code, § 10-9-4) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 152.05 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements.
   (B)   These regulations shall supplement all other regulations and where at
variance with other laws, ordinance, resolutions, rules or regulations of any
kind, the more restrictive requirements shall apply.
('88 Code, § 10-9-5) (Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad right-of-ways, waterways or municipal
boundaries.
   BUILDING SET BACK LINE - BUILDING LINE. The line, nearest the front and side
of a lot, which establishes the minimum yard between the principal building/
structure and the lot line. In measuring to establish the building set back
line, the measurement is to be taken from the furthest protruding point of the
building, such as eaves, steps, ramps, decks, porches and the like.
   DEDICATION. The setting apart of land, or interests in land, for the use by
the public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes and by the
recording of a plat.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of the use of a strip of land by the public,
a corporation, or persons, for specific uses and purposes, to be designated as
a “public” or “private” easement depending on the nature of type use.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
crosswalks, water mains and lines, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, culverts,
bridges, utilities, and other additions to the natural state of land which
increase its value, utility or habitability.
   LOT. A parcel or portion of land separated from other parcels or portions by
description, as in a subdivision or on record survey map or by metes and
bounds, for the purpose of sale, lease, or separate use.
   PERFORMANCE BOND. The amount of money, or other negotiable security, paid by
the sub- divider or his surety, to the Hamilton Clerk-Treasurer that guarantees
that the sub-divider will perform all actions required by the Plan Commission
regarding an approved plat. Such bonds shall provide that, if the sub-divider
defaults and fails to comply with the provisions of an approved plat, he/she
will pay damages up to the amount of the bond, or the surety itself will
complete such requirements.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land,
intended to be recorded.
      (1)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A preliminary map and support data indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision in sufficient detail to provide adequate
basis for review by the Commission and meeting requirements of §
152.22.
      (2)   FINAL PLAT. A map of all or part of a subdivision providing
substantial conformance to the preliminary plat of the subdivision prepared and
certified by a registered land surveyor in compliance with requirements of I.C.
36-7-3-1 et seq. and suitable for recording by the County Register of Deeds.
   PLAT, SKETCH. An informal sketch drawn before the preparation of a primary
plat, to save time and expense in reaching general agreements with the Plan
Commission as to the form of a proposed plat.
   STREET. Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, land, parkway, viaduct, alley,
or other way which is an existing state, county, or municipal roadway; or a
street, or any way shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or
approved by official action; or, a street or way on a plat duly filed and
recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds. A STREET includes the
land between the street lines whether improved or unimproved and may comprise
pavement, shoulders, gutters, sidewalks, parking areas, and lawns.
      (1)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. Any interstate, state, or county highway, or
any local traffic artery of considerable continuity carrying a large volume of
both private and commercial vehicles, (i.e. a “section line road”).
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street within a neighborhood used primarily to
carry traffic from minor streets to major thoroughfares, including principal
entrance streets to a residential development.
      (3)   LOCAL STREETS. A street of limited continuity used primarily for
access to abutting residential properties.
      (4)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street paralleling and adjacent to
a major thoroughfare which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
      (5)   TURN-AROUND. A short boulevard street permanently terminated by a
vehicular turn- about.
      (6)   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A short minor street having one end permanently
terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
      (7)   ALLEY. A minor service street used primarily to provide secondary
vehicular access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting upon a
street.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person responsibly engaged in developing or improving a
tract of land which complies with the definition of a subdivision as defined by
this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. A division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots or other divisions of land for the purpose, immediate or future, or
transfer of ownership, or development, including all changes in street or lot
lines. The term includes resubdivision and when appropriate to the context
shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivider.
('88 Code, § 10-9-6) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 98-8, passed 8-31-98; Am. Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-1-02)
§ 152.07 EXEMPTION FROM FORMAL PLATTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If a proposed subdivision is exempt under the “Subdivision Control
Ordinance of Steuben County,” then such subdivision is exempt for the approval
provisions of §§
152.70 through
152.74 of this chapter subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   All data required to be on a final plat approval under §
152.24 shall be set forth on the plat except that final protective covenants
need not be approved, unless the land has been rezoned or the subject of a
variance. If land has been rezoned or was the subject of a variance, the date
of the action must be given along with the recordation date and reference to
the Recorder's record. Provided, however, the detail is not required in the
case of land located in an area zoned agriculture and where the subdivision
will result in no parcel being less than ten acres in size, in an area zoned
industrial where no parcel is less than 15 acres in size, or in an area zoned
lake residential where the division will result in no more than two lots both
of which would be as large as the current minimum lot for an area and all
adjoining lot owners have consented to the subdivision.
      (2)   All dedications and certifications required under the “Subdivision
Control Ordinance of Steuben County” are to be submitted in recordable form
attached to, or on the face of, the plat along with an affidavit of the
engineer or surveyor preparing the plat that the facts do exist which entitles
the subdivision for exemption and the certifications required under §
152.25(D) and detailed in Appendix I through IV.
      (3)   The engineer or surveyor shall certify that the proposed
subdivision will not adversely alter, condense or accelerate drainage to or
across any property owned by adjoining property owners at the time of the
subdivision.
   (B)   Regardless of the provisions of the “Subdivision Control Ordinance of
Steuben County,” the plat and dedication of any street or public way made in
the course of any subdivision herein shall not be considered as accepted for
maintenance, repair, snow removal, mowing or similar purposes until the Plan
Commission and the Town Council shall have approved by resolution and ordinance
at a public session the platted street or way, and the subdivider shall have
posted surety as required by this chapter. Whenever a street or public way is
platted, but is not intended to become a public street or way or where it was
so intended, but such a resolution and ordinance have not been obtained, any
conveyance of any lot resulting from the subdivision must specifically state
that the street or way has not been accepted as a public street or way and is
not entitled to the services.
   (C)   No subdivision exempted by this section is to be effective until all
of the documents required hereby have been submitted to, reviewed by, and
approved by the Administrator, and recorded with the County Recorder in the
county in which the land is situated.
   (D)   The Administrator may submit a proposed exempt subdivision to the Plan
Commission for its advice whenever:
      (1)   The Administrator is in doubt as to whether any subdivision is or
is not exempt;
      (2)   The proposed exempt subdivision will create parcels of irregular
shape, or otherwise hamper future use or development;
      (3)   The subdivider appears to be engaging in sham transactions for the
purpose of avoiding the formal approval procedures of this chapter without
complying with the policies of this section; or
      (4)   The proposed exempted plat will result in, or is expected to result
in strip residential or strip commercial development.
   (E)   In the event the Administrator submits a proposed exempt subdivision
to the Plan Commission, he shall first give notice to the subdivider that a
submission is to be made and also to any adjoining property owners who have
filed written objections to the exempt subdivision. In the event there are no
objections to the exempt subdivision, the subdivider may waive notice of the
submission. In the event the Plan Commission, after submission, determines that
the subdivision is not an exempt subdivision, or that facts exist to support
divisions (D)(2), (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this section, then the subdivider must
either withdraw the proposed subdivision, modify the proposed exempt
subdivision to bring the same into conformity with the exempt subdivision
provisions and remove the existence of facts supporting a finding under
divisions (D)(2), (D)(3) or (D)(4) or proceed under the provisions regarding
formal plat approval.
   (F)   All lot size, easement widths, and other provisions of the Zoning Code
of the town and the “Subdivision Regulation of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana”
shall apply to all exempted subdivisions.
('88 Code, § 10-9-7) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 98-8, passed 8-31-98)
Cross-reference:
   Water line extension policy, see §
51.04
§ 152.08 ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and determination. 
      (1)   Administrative divisions, as defined below, are not subject to the
requirements of this chapter except for the determination by the town that all
requirements of this section for the administrative division have been met. The
Town Manager and/or the Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of
this section.
      (2)   The determination of whether or not a division of a lot, tract or
parcel of land is an administrative division shall be made jointly by the Town
Manager/Zoning Administrator and the President of the Hamilton Plan Commission
after consultation with the Town Attorney. If the Town Manager/Zoning
Administrator and the Plan Commission President determine that the division is
an administrative division, the Town Manager/Zoning Administrator shall proceed
under this section. If the Town Manager/Zoning Administrator and the Plan
Commission President are uncertain of a determination, the matter should then
be submitted to the full Plan Commission for its determination as to whether a
division is an administrative division.
   (B)   Administrative divisions. In order for the land division to be
considered an administrative division, the applicant shall submit information
to the town so that the town can determine whether the proposed division meets
the requirements of this section. In the event that the town determines that
the proposed division meets the requirements of an administrative division, the
town shall prepare a document called a Statement of Compliance and furnish a
copy to the subdivider. The subdivider shall then submit to the town the
instrument of conveyance to be used to convey the newly created parcel or
parcels, which instrument of conveyance must be approved and such approval
noted on the instrument before it is recorded. An instrument of conveyance
without the approval notation thereon shall be considered a subdivision and
shall thereafter be subject to the requirements of this chapter. Administrative
divisions must be one of the following:
      (1)   A division of land into two or more tracts, all of which must be at
least 10,000 square feet if the parcels are located within the corporate limits
of the Town of Hamilton or at least two acres if the parcel is located in the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of he town. No more than four total parcels may
be created by this means, including the root parcel and three new parcels.
      (2)   A division of land for the sale or exchange of tracts to correct
errors in an existing legal description. Division shall not create additional
building sites except for the accessory buildings.
      (3)   A division of land pursuant to an allocation of land in the
settlement of a decedent's estate or a court decree for distribution of
property.
      (4)   A division of land for the acquisition of street right-of-way or
easement.
      (5)   A division of land for the sale or exchange of tracts between
adjoining land owners. Divisions shall not create additional building sites
except for accessory buildings.
      (6)   A division of land into cemetery plots for the purpose of burial of
corpses.
      (7)   A division of land to create a parcel for the location of equipment
for a utility, such as, but not limited to, wellheads, pumps stations, and
electrical substations.
   (C)   Dedication of right-of-way. For a parcel created through an
administrative division, the land divider shall dedicate to the public real
property of a sufficient width to meet one-half of the required right-of-way
width for the specific public road as indicated on the Thoroughfare Plan of the
town, and of a length along that public road equal to the length of that parcel
along that roadway.
   (D)   Administrative division review process. Within seven working days of
the subdivider's complete submission of the required information, the town
shall review the submission and notify the land divider that his proposed land
division either qualifies as an administrative division and is thus exempt from
all other provisions of this chapter, or does not qualify as an administrative
division and is thus subject to the relevant subdivision processes described in
this chapter.
      (1)   The application and supporting material, as listed in division (B)
above, shall be filed with the town. The fee, as established by the Town
Council, shall be paid at the time of filing.
      (2)   An administrative division shall be reviewed by the town for
conformance with the requirements of this section and the Zoning Ordinance. If
the division does not conflict with standards contained in this section and the
Zoning Ordinance and does not cause non-compliance or increased nonconformity
with the Zoning Ordinance, then the town shall provide a Statement of
Compliance.
      (3)   Upon obtaining a Statement of Compliance from the town, the
subdivider may record the administrative subdivision with the County Recorder.
   (E)   No guarantee. In approving an administrative division, the town does
not represent or guarantee, in any form, that the subdivider applying for an
administrative division will be issued any other necessary permits as
requirement either by the Town of Hamilton or DeKalb or Steuben County, as the
case may be, the Hamilton Lake Conservancy District.
   (F)   The supporting material to be submitted with the application shall
include the same supporting material that is required for an improvement
location permit and additional reasonable requirements imposed by the Town
Manager/Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 5-5-14)
SUBDIVISION PLATTING PROCEDURE
§ 152.20 PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Prior to the preparation of a preliminary plat the subdivider shall
informally meet with the Plan Commission to investigate the procedures and
standards of the municipality with reference to the Subdivision Control Chapter
and provisions of the Comprehensive Plan. A plan sketch should be submitted at
this time.
   (B)   The subdivider should concern himself with the following factors:
      (1)   Regulations imposed by zoning and subdivision ordinances,
engineering specifications and other relevant ordinances or controls.
      (2)   Zoning of the proposed subdivision location.
      (3)   The adequacy of existing schools and public open spaces.
      (4)   The town, county, and state standards for sewage disposal, water
supply, and drainage.
('88 Code, § 10-11-1) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-1-02)
§ 152.21 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A) The subdivider shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat together
with improvement plans and other supplementary material as specified in the
following sections.
   (B)   Five copies of the preliminary plat and supplementary material
specified shall be submitted to the Secretary of the Plan Commission with
written application for approval.
   (C)   The Town Council may set fees to cover the cost of the public hearing
and checking the plat proposal. The fee shall be due at the time of filing for
approval of the preliminary plat, and the current fee is established at $100.
   (D)   A public hearing shall be held before the Plan Commission. At least
ten days prior to the day set for the hearing, the Plan Commission shall notify
the applicant in writing, notify the general population by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in Steuben County and DeKalb County, Indiana,
and notify any governmental unit having a probable interest in the proposed
plat, that a hearing will be held.
   (E)   (1)   After the public hearing and following review of the preliminary
plat and other material submitted for conformity thereof to these regulations
and negotiations with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the kind
and extent of improvements to be made by him, the Plan Commission shall, within
30 days of the public hearing, act thereon as submitted or modified, and if
approved, the Plan Commission shall express its approval. The conditions of the
approval, if any, or if disapproved, shall express its disapproval and its
reasons therefore.
      (2)   The action of the Plan Commission shall be noted on four copies of
the preliminary plat referenced and attached to any conditions determined. One
copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one copy forwarded with a report to
the Town Council and one copy retained by the Plan Commission. Within the
jurisdictional area, one additional copy shall be forwarded to the County
Surveyor.
('88 Code, § 10-11-2) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-1-02)
2015 S-15
§ 152.22 DATA FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   Boundary lines: bearings and distance.
      (2)   Easements: location, width and purpose.
      (3)   Streets on and adjacent to the tract: right-of-way width and type
of surfacing, established centerline elevations and gutters, culverts, etc.
      (4)   Utilities on and adjacent to the tract: location, size and invert
elevation of sanitary and storm sewers, location and size of water mains,
location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone lines and street
lights, if water mains and sewers are not on or adjacent to the tract, indicate
the direction, distance to and size of the nearest ones showing invert
elevation of sewers.
      (5)   Ground elevation on the tract based on the mean sea level datum as
established by U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey: for land that slopes less than
½%, show not less than one foot contours, show spot elevations at all breaks in
grade, along all drainage channels or swales, and at selected points not more
than 100 feet apart in all directions, and for land that slopes more than 2%
show not less than two foot contours.
      (6)   Subsurface conditions on the tract (if required by the Plan
Commission): location and results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil,
rock and ground water conditions, depth to ground water unless test pits are
dry at a depth of five feet, location and results of soil percolation tests if
individual sewage disposal systems are proposed. In all cases where septic
tanks are proposed, subsurface conditions (ground water table, percolation
rate) must be analyzed.
      (7)   Other conditions on the tract: water courses, marshes, rock
outcrop, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees one foot or more in diameter,
houses, barns, shacks, location of government drain and ditch easements,
preexisting private easements, flood hazard areas as designated by the Federal
Insurance Administration and other significant features.
      (8)   Other conditions on adjacent land: approximate direction and
gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls, and
other nearby nonresidential land uses or adverse influences, owner of adjacent
unplatted land, for adjacent platted land refer to subdivision plat by name and
recording date, and show approximate percent buildup and typical lot size.
      (9)   Zoning: on and adjacent to the tract.
       (10)   Proposed public improvements: highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near
the tract.
      (11)   Key plan: sufficient information to accurately locate the plat.
(Reference to existing streets, plats, etc., may be used. If there are none
within a reasonable distance of the proposed subdivision, a vicinity plan on a
small scale should accompany the preliminary plat.)
      (12)   Title and certificates: present tract designation according to
official records in offices of the County Recorder; title under which proposed
subdivision is to be recorded, with names and addresses of owners and notation
stating acreage.
   (B)   Proposed conditions.
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision.
      (2)   Its location by section, township and range and as forming a part
of some larger tract or parcel of land referred to in the indexes of the
records of the County Recorder and/or Auditor.
      (3)   The description and location of all survey monuments existing in
the subdivision shall be shown.
      (4)   The names and addresses of the persons to whom the notice of the
hearing to be held by the planning agency should be sent (the subdivider, the
designer of the subdivision, and the owners of the land immediately adjoining
the land to be platted).
      (5)   The names, locations, roadway widths, right-of-way widths, and
other dimensions of streets, alleys, easements, parks and other spaces.
      (6)   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches, and industry.
      (7)   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or
reserved for the use of all property owners with the purpose indicated.
      (8)   Location and size of utilities.
      (9)   Block numbers and layout, numbers, dimensions and area of lots.
      (10)   Building setback lines, showing dimensions.
      (11)   North point and scale and date of preparation.
      (12)   Draft of protective covenants, whereby the subdivider proposes to
regulate land use and otherwise protect the proposed development.
('88 Code, § 10-11-3) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.23 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved and if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion
of the approved preliminary plat which he proposes to record and develop at the
time; provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements of
these regulations.
   (B)   Prior to the time of submission of the final plat of subdivision,
final plans and specifications for public improvements shall be submitted in
triplicate to the Plan Commission and shall include at least the following:
      (1)   Detailed drawings of a grading plan, street improvements plan,
sanitary improvements plan, water system improvements plan, and storm water
drainage.
      (2)   Plans and profiles drawn at a scale not to exceed one inch equals
100 feet horizontally and one inch to ten feet vertically indicating additional
horizontal and vertical location of streets, sewers, appurtenances, and the
existing grade.
   (C)   Upon receipt of these final plans, the Plan Commission shall refer
same to the Town Engineer for his comments and corrections. The Town Engineer
shall review these plans for compliance with the requirements of town and shall
return them together with his recommendations to the Plan Commission. The Town
Engineer may, at his discretion, confer with the engineer for the developer
concerning correction to the final plans prior to his final approval. All final
plans shall be submitted on 24-inch by 18-inch mylar and shall bear the
signature of the Indiana Registered Professional Engineer and/or Registered
Land Surveyor under whose direction they were prepared.
   (D)   Three copies of the final plat and other necessary exhibits including
proof of title shall be prepared and submitted to the Plan Commission within 12
months after approval of the preliminary plat. The developer may seek an
extension of time from the Plan Commission. Failure to comply with these
requirements will make the preliminary plat null and void.
   (E)   Within 30 days after application for approval of the final plat, the
Plan Commission shall approve or disapprove it. If the Plan Commission
approves, it shall affix its seal upon the plat together with the certifying
signatures of its Chairman and Secretary. If it disapproves, it shall set forth
its reasons in its own records and provide the applicant with a copy.
   (F)   (1)   After approval of the final plat by the Plan Commission and the
fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations, one tracing of the final
plat of the subdivision, drawn in ink on permanent plastic base, shall be
submitted to the Town Council.
      (2)   Action must be taken by the Town Council within 45 days after the
final plat has been submitted to the Town Council for approval of proposed
dedications.
      (3)   Upon approval by the Town Council, the developer shall record the
plat with the County Recorder within four months. If not recorded within this
time, the approval shall be null and void. Immediately after recording, the
original or a duly certified copy of the recorded plat shall be filed with the
Hamilton Clerk-Treasurer.
('88 Code, § 10-11-4) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.24 DATA FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   Final plat shall be drawn in ink on mylar that shall be 18 inches wide by 24
inches long and shall be at a scale of 100 feet to one inch. The Plan
Commission may require a scale of 50 feet to one inch in appropriate cases.
Where necessary, the plat may be on several sheets showing the entire submitted
for approval progressively in contiguous sections satisfactory to the Plan
Commission. The final plat shall show the following:
   (A)   Name of subdivision.
   (B)   Location by township, section, town and range or by other legal
description.
   (C)   Scale one inch to 100 feet, unless otherwise indicated.
   (D)   Date, north point and basis of bearings.
   (E)   Boundary of plat, based on a closed traverse (implying all side and
interior angles being measured by proper and accepted field methods) with a
maximum error on boundary dimensions and closure of 1:5000. Closure
calculations must be included and the Indiana State Plan Coordinate System
shall be utilized.
   (F)   Exact location, width and name of all streets within and adjoining the
plat, and the exact location and widths, of all cross-walkways. Streets that
are obviously in alignment with others already existing and named shall bear
the names of the existing streets.
   (G)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines or
official monuments which shall be accurately described on the plat.
   (H)   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distances, angles, and bearings.
   (I)   Radii, central angles, point of curvature tangent bearings, and
lengths of all arcs of street lines.
   (J)   Location, dimensions and purposes for all easements, ditch, and drain
locations and the location of designated flood hazard areas.
   (K)   All block and lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet
and hundredths with bearings given for all lines.
   (L)   Location and description of permanent monuments or bench marks.
   (M) Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated or
reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and of any area
to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property owners.
   (N)   Building setback lines accurately shown by dimension.
   (O)   Protective covenants which meet with the approval of the Plan
Commission shall be lettered on the final plat or attached thereto.
   (P)   A summary on its face of all restrictions applicable to any part of
the subdivisions relating to building restrictions, use restriction building
lines or otherwise.
('88 Code, § 10-11-5) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.25 ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   A certificate of approval from the Town Council that all improvements
and installations to the subdivision required for its approval have been made
or installed in accordance with the local state and federal specifications.
      (1)   A performance bond which shall:
         (a)   Run to the Town Council; and
         (b)   Be in an amount determined by the Town Council to be sufficient
in amount to complete the improvement and installations in compliance with this
chapter.
      (2)   Any other form of surety can be substituted (letter of credit,
escrow) if approved by the Town Council. Any funds received from these bonds
shall be used by the Town Council only for the completion of the improvements
and installations for which they were provided, and the Council is authorized
to complete such improvements and installations on the failure of applicant to
do so.
   (B)   Prior to the acceptance by the town of improvements, a two-year
maintenance bond in an amount set by the Town Council shall be posted by the
applicant.
   (C)   After hearing and within a reasonable time after application for
approval of the plat, the Commission shall approve or disapprove it. If the
Commission approves, it shall affix the Commission's seal upon the plat
together with the certifying signature of its president and secretary. If it
disapproves, it shall set forth its reason in its own records and provide the
applicant with a copy.
   (D)   Final plat certification information requires the following forms,
copies of which are found in the appendix following this chapter:
      (1)   Certificate of approval;
      (2)   Surveyor's certificate;
      (3)   Certificate of dedication; and
      (4)   Certificate of acknowledgement.
('88 Code, § 10-11-6) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
DESIGN LAYOUT STANDARDS
§ 152.35 STREETS.
   (A)   Streets shall conform to all minimum requirements of the general
specifications and typical cross-section as set forth. When a tract to be
subdivided embraces any part of a proposed street, such part of the proposed
public bay shall be platted by the subdivider in the location and width
proposed.
   (B)   (1)   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the various elements
of the master plan and shall be considered in relation to the existing and
planned major thoroughfares and collector streets, and such part shall be
platted in the location and the width indicated on such plan.
      (2)   The street layout shall include minor streets so laid out that
their use by through traffic shall be discouraged.
      (3)   For a proposed major thoroughfare, the Commission may require
marginal access streets, reverse frontage, or such other treatment as may be
necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford
separation and reduction of traffic hazards.
      (4)   Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain a railroad,
expressway, or other limited access highway right-of-way, the Commission may
require the location of a street approximately parallel to and on each side of
a right-of-way at a distance suitable for the development of an appropriate use
of the intervening land such as for parks in residential district. The
distances shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distances
required for approach grades to future grade separation.
   (C)   Street right-of-way widths shall conform to at least the following
minimum requirements:
   Street Type   Right-of-Way Widths
   Local streets   60 feet
   Marginal access streets   50 feet
   Turn-around (loop) streets   110 feet diameter
   Cul-de-sac streets — turn around   100 feet diameter
   (D)   Maximum length for residential cul-de-sac streets shall generally be
600 feet. Maximum length for industrial and other cul-de-sac streets may exceed
600 feet by approval of the Commission.
   (E)   For adequate drainage, the minimum street grade shall not be less than
0.5%. The maximum street grade shall be 6%.
   (F)   Minimum radii of curvature on the center lines, where a deflection in
the alignment of a street occurs, a curve shall be introduced, provided for:
      (1)   Major streets of 100 feet.
      (2)   Other streets, a minimum radius of 100 feet, should be much greater
wherever possible.
   (G)   Tangents between reverse curves there shall not be less than a minimum
tangent for:
      (1)   Major streets of 100 feet.
      (2)   Other streets of 50 feet.
   (H)   (1)   At street intersections, property line corners and also street
pavement shall be grounded by an arc at least 20 feet in radius.
      (2)   No street shall intersect a major street at an angle of less than
70 degrees.
('88 Code, § 10-12-1) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.36 BLOCKS.
   Blocks within a subdivision shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   Sizes.
      (1)   Maximum length for blocks shall not exceed 660 feet in length,
except where in the opinion of the Commission, conditions may justify a greater
distance.
      (2)   Widths of blocks shall be determined by the condition of the layout
and shall be suited to the intended layout.
(B)   Public walkways.
      (1)   Location of public walkways or crosswalks may be required by the
Commission to obtain satisfactory pedestrian access to public or private
facilities such as, but not limited to, schools and parks.
      (2)   Widths of public walkways or crosswalks shall be at least five feet
and shall be in the nature of an easement for this purpose. Pavement widths
shall not be less than four feet.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Location of utility line easements shall be provided along the rear
or side lot lines as necessary for utility lines. Easements shall give access
for every lot, park, or public grounds. Such easements shall be a minimum of 14
feet, and preferably 20 feet. Half of the total comes from each lot line.
      (2)   Recommendations on the proposed layout of telephone and electric
company easements should be sought from all of the utility companies serving
the area. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to submit copies of
the approved preliminary plat to all appropriate public utility agencies.
      (3)   Whenever possible, the subdivider shall be encouraged to design for
the placement of utility lines underground, following the required standards
and specifications established by each utility company.
('88 Code, § 10-12-2) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.37 LOTS.
   Lots within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   Sizes and shapes.
      (1)   Sidelines of lots shall be at approximately right angles (90º) to
straight streets and approximately 90º on radial lines of curved streets. Some
variation from this rule is permissible, but only side lot lines of 60º angles
or more are permitted. Square or rectangular lots are preferred. For lots with
side lines of less than right angles (90º), the front lot line can not be less
than 70% in width than the width of the building setback line.
      (2)   Lot areas and width shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the zoning ordinance for the district in which the subdivision
is proposed, minimum lot widths shall be measured at the building set back,
also referred to as the front yard set back line.
      (3)   That the building setback lines shall conform to at least the
minimum requirements of the zoning ordinance. They will also include a five
foot buffer between the building line and the utility easement line.
      (4)   Corner lots should be platted in such a fashion as to allow
conformance with front yard setback lines on both streets or side lotted
streets.
      (5)   Lots intended for purposes other than residential use shall be
specifically designated for such purposes, and shall have adequate provision
for off-street parking, setbacks and other requirements in accordance with
Chapter 153.
      (6)   Through lots sharing frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets will be permitted only at the discretion of the Commission.
   (B)   Arrangement.
      (1)   Every lot shall front or abut on a street.
      (2)   Lots shall have a front to front relationship across all streets
where possible. This shall be accomplished to assure that houses do not face
rear or side yards across streets wherever possible.
      (3)   Where lots border upon bodies of water, the front yard may be
designated as the waterfront side of such lot provided that lot has sufficient
depth to provide adequate setback on the street to maintain a setback for all
structures equal to the setback on the street side as well as on the waterfront
side.
('88 Code, § 10-12-3) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2017-1, passed 2-6-17)
§ 152.38 NATURAL FEATURES.
   The natural features and character of lands must be preserved wherever
possible. Due regard must be shown for all natural features such as large
trees, natural groves, watercourses, and similar community assets that will add
attractiveness and value to the property, if preserved. The preservation of
drainage and natural stream channels must be considered by the subdivider and
the dedication and provision of adequate barriers, where appropriate, shall be
required.
('88 Code, § 10-12-4) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.39 SOIL LIMITATIONS.
   No land shall be subdivided for residential use if such land is considered
by the Commission to be unsuitable for such use by reason of improper drainage
or structural capability, topography or location or location or rock
formations.
('88 Code, § 10-12-5) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.40 PARK FACILITIES.
   The Plan Commission may require that a subdivider provide park facilities to
meet a portion of the recreational needs of persons living in the subdivision.
The Commission may require such facilities as they deem appropriate.
('88 Code, § 10-12-6) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.50 MINIMUM STANDARDS; COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   The improvements set forth under this subchapter are held to be minimum
acceptable standards. The subdivider shall be required to complete all
improvements to the satisfaction of the Town Council and shall file a bond with
the town guaranteeing such improvements.
('88 Code, § 10-13-1) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.51 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   The center of all monuments shall be marked on the top diameter and
set in a minimum 4-inch diameter concrete or equivalent. Monuments shall be set
so that the tip is slightly below the adjoining established grade and shall be
installed at the following points:
      (1)   At the intersection of street and alley right-of-way lines.
      (2)   At the beginning and ending of all street curves on both right-of-
way lines.
      (3)   At all boundary corners of the dedicated plat area and dedicated
public areas.
   (B)   The corners of all lots not marked by monuments required above shall
be marked by galvanized iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least three feet in
length and not less than 5/8 inch in diameter, the top of the pipe or bar to be
set level with the established grade adjoining it.
('88 Code, § 10-13-2) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.52 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Streets and alleys shall be graded to the full width of the right-of-
ways and brought to grades specified on plans, profiles, and cross sections
approved by the Commission in the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Streets shall be paved to the following minimum widths:
 
Street Type      Minimum Pavement Width
                With Curb and Gutter Without Curb and Gutter
Collector street    32 feet           22 feet
Local street        28 feet           20 feet
 
   (C)   Streets and alley construction shall adhere to the design criteria of
the following organizations:
      (1)   Asphalt Pavement Association of Indiana;
      (2)   Indiana Concrete Council;
      (3)   Portland Cement Association; and
      (4)   Steuben County specifications.
   (D)   When located in the jurisdictional area, all streets shall meet
standards set by the County Commissioners in the area in which it is located.
('88 Code, § 10-13-3) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.53 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   Concrete curbs and gutters shall be installed along all streets in the
subdivision. Curbs and gutters shall be of rolled or vertical face design and
the materials and methods of construction must conform to the minimum
specifications adopted by the Town Council. Concrete curbs and gutters may be
judged unnecessary by the Commission for adequate drainage of storm water or
for factors of safety, but only upon submission by the developer of information
and evidence sufficient to justify the exception.
('88 Code, § 10-13-4) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-1-02)
§ 152.54 SIDEWALKS.
   Concrete sidewalks, at least four feet wide and four inches thick, shall be
installed on both sides of each street. Concrete sidewalks may be judged
unnecessary by the Commission for pedestrian safety and convenience, but only
upon submission by the developer of information and evidence sufficient to
justify the exception.
('88 Code, § 10-13-5) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-1-02)
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 96
§ 152.55 STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   A storm water sewer system or a surface drainage system designed for
not less than a five-year storm frequency to serve the area being subdivided
shall be provided.
   (B)   When curbs and gutters are provided or when the Commission determines
the natural surface drainage to be inadequate, the subdivider shall construct a
storm water sewer system with inlets appropriately spaced in the subdivision.
   (C)   A natural surface drainage system shall be permitted when curbs and
gutters are not provided, and the natural drainage will, in the opinion of the
Commission, adequately drain the storm waters from the subdivision. The
drainage should be shallow swales sowed in grass rather than deep, open
ditches. Streets not having curbs and gutters shall provide the following:
      (1)   Side ditch swales constructed at one foot vertical to three feet
horizontal.
      (2)   A swale or culvert at all driveways sized according to amount of
storm water flow.
      (3)   Culverts under the roadway where necessary. Size of culvert to be
according to amount of storm water flow but not less than 12 inches.
      (4)   Relief of side ditches and swales along the roadway through the use
of off-street detention basins or existing drainage channels. Detention basins
may be required to avoid overloading channels, ditches, etc.
      (5)   When topsoil has been removed from the surface of a lot on a slope
where erosion will cause a displacement of loose materials, the subdivider
shall utilize approved methods to prevent the wash from damaging adjacent
property.
      (6)   In the design of a storm sewer system for each subdivision, the
present and future expected runoff from the larger drainage area shall be
considered. If sewers larger than those necessary to service the subdivision
alone are recommended, then the Commission may recommend that the public
utility join with the subdivider in the installation of the sewer system.
('88 Code, § 10-13-6) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
Cross-reference:
   Storm drainage and erosion control ordinance adopted by reference, see §
154.02
§ 152.56 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   If in the judgment of the Commission a public water main is reasonably
accessible or within ¼- mile of a proposed subdivision, a complete water
distribution system approved by the Indiana State Board of Health, including a
connection for each lot and fire hydrants meeting the requirements of the Town
Council and Fire Insurance Underwriters association shall be installed by the
subdivider.
   (B)   If a public water main is not reasonably accessible, each lot may be
provided with an individual water supply, provided such supply is installed in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the Indiana State Board of Health.
('88 Code, § 10-13-7) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
Cross-reference:
   Water and Sewers, see
Chapter 51
§ 152.57 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   If in the judgment of the Commission, a public sanitary sewer is
reasonably accessible or within ½-mile, a complete sanitary sewer system
approved by the Indiana State Board of Health, including a lateral connection
for each lot in the subdivision, shall be installed by a subdivider. The ½-mile
requirement may be waived for industrial subdivisions of land.
   (B)   If, in the judgment of the Commission, a public sanitary sewer main is
not reasonably accessible, sanitary wastes may be disposed of by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   The subdivision may be provided with a complete sanitary sewer
system, including a lateral connection for each lot and a package treatment
plant, all meeting the approval of the Indiana State Board of Health and the
Indiana Water Pollution Control Board.
      (2)   The subdivider may provide a private sewage disposal system on
individual lots consisting of a septic tank and soil absorption field or other
approved sewage disposal system, provided such disposal systems are installed
in accordance with the minimum standards of the Indiana State Board of Health
and those of the applicable County Health Department provided that the soil in
the subdivision will properly absorb sewage effluent as determined by soil
studies and by percolation tests performed in accordance with the procedure
prescribed by the Indiana State Board of Health or as determined by such other
comparable test approved by the Commission. Regardless of which test is used,
the following shall apply:
         (a)   An adequate number of tests, as determined by the Commission, to
clearly indicate the soil conditions throughout the subdivision shall be made
by the subdivider.
         (b)   The tests shall be performed by a licensed engineer, licensed
surveyor, or qualified sanitarian.
         (c)   The location of each test shall be recorded on a map of the
subdivision drawn to scale.
         (d)   The results of the tests shall be keyed to the map and certified
as being true, correct and performed according to the required, procedure by
the person performing the tests.
      (3)   If a sanitary sewer system is to be installed, it may be desirable
that sewer mains of a larger size than needed to serve the immediate
subdivision be installed. If this occurs, the Commission may recommend that the
public utility join with the subdivider in the installation of the sewer
system.
('88 Code, § 10-13-8) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
Cross-reference:
   Water line extension policy, see §
51.04
§ 152.58 STREET NAME SIGNS; TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS.
   The subdivider shall install standard street signs at the intersection of
all streets in the subdivision. The signs and method of display shall be
subject to approval of the Town Council. Traffic-control signs must also be
installed by the subdivider, the type and location of which will be determined
by the Town Council.
('88 Code, § 10-13-9) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.70 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the Plan Commission
acting in lieu of the Town Council except as specifically provided in this
chapter. The Enforcing Officer is designated and authorized to enforce the
provisions of this chapter under the direction of the Plan Commission.
('88 Code, § 10-10-1) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.71 INSPECTION AT SUBDIVIDER'S EXPENSE.
   All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions of the
chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction by the Enforcing
Officer or a duly designated deputy. All fees and costs connected with on-site
inspections shall be paid by the subdivider. The filing fee as outlined in §§
152.20 through
152.25 does not cover this expense.
('88 Code, § 10-10-2) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.72 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS; BUILDING PERMITS.
   No improvement location permit or building permit shall be issued on any lot
in a subdivision until the preliminary plat and the plans and specifications
have been approved by the town. In addition, the required improvements shall be
installed or surety posted required improvements before building permits can be
issued.
('88 Code, § 10-10-3) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 152.73 VARIATIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   When the subdivider can show that a provision of these regulations, if
strictly adhered to, would cause unnecessary hardship, and when in the opinion
of the Plan Commission, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar
to the site, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such
provisions, the Plan Commission may recommend a variance or modification to the
Town Council. The subdivider shall apply in writing for such variance or
modification of the action. Any variance or modification recommendation must be
sent to the Town Council for approval. Any variance or modification thus
authorized, shall be attached to and made a part of the final plat.
('88 Code, § 10-10-4) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.74 RESUBDIVISION.
   For any change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat, if such
change affects any street layout shown on such map, or area reserved thereon
for public use, or any lot line, or if it affects any map of plan legally
recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions,
such parcels shall be approved by the Plan Commission by the same procedure,
rules and regulations as for a subdivision.
('88 Code, § 10-10-5) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.75 AMENDMENTS.
   The Plan Commission, in the interests of public health, safety, and welfare,
may amend the provisions of this chapter subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall hold a public meeting on all such proposed
amendments.
   (B)   If the proposed amendment originates outside of the Plan Commission,
the Commission must give initial approval before the public meeting is held on
the proposal.
   (C)   Public notice of the date of the meeting shall be given at least ten
days before the public meeting is held.
   (D)   Following the public meeting the proposed amendment may be adopted by
approval of the Town Council and Plan Commission.
   (E)   A negative review of or failures of the Plan Commission and/or the
Town Council to act on the proposal within 60 days shall indicate denial of the
proposed amendment.
('88 Code, § 10-14-1) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 152.76 APPEALS.
   In any decision by the Hamilton Plan Commission, any person aggrieved may
petition the Circuit Court of Steuben County and DeKalb County, Indiana, for
writ of certiorari as provided by law.
('88 Code, § 10-15-1) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
Statutory reference:
   Appeal of approval or disapproval, see I.C. 36-7-4-708
§ 152.77 SUBDIVISION MASTER PLAN.
   A partially platted subdivision with a previously approved master plan shall
be exempt from the requirements of the regulations.
('88 Code, § 10-15-5) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
APPENDIX : FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATES
Section
   
1.   Certificate of approval
   
2.   Surveyor's certificate
   
3.   Certificate of dedication
   
4.   Certificate of acknowledgement
§ 1. CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   Under authority provided by I.C. 36-7-3-1 et seq.and ordinance adopted by
the Town Council, Hamilton, Indiana, this plat was given approval.
   Approved by the Hamilton Plan Commission at a meeting held on the
                          day of                            , 19    .
   President                                              
   Secretary                                              
('88 Code, § 10-11-6) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 2. SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE.
   I,                                       , hereby certify that I am a
registered Land Surveyor licensed in compliance with the laws of the state of
Indiana, that this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me, or under
my direction on               , that all the monuments shown there on actually
exist; that either location, size, type and material are accurately shown; and
that all details required to be shown by the “Subdivision Regulations of the
Town of Hamilton” are shown hereon.
Seal                                               
   Signature                                         
('88 Code, § 10-11-6) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 3. CERTIFICATE OF DEDICATION
   We, the undersigned,                                   , owners of the real
estate shown and described herein, do hereby certify that we have laid off,
platted and subdivided the real estate in accordance with the within plat. This
subdivision shall be known and designated as                             in
addition to                                         .
   All rights-of-way and easements shown are not heretofore dedicated, are
hereby dedicated to the public. Front and side yard building setback lines are
hereby established as shown on this plat, between which lines and the property
lines of the street, there shall be erected or maintained no building or
structure.
   [Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions,
could be inserted upon the subdivider's initiative or the recommendation of the
Commission; important provisions are those specifying the use to be made of the
property, and in the case of residential use, the minimum habitable floor
area.]
('88 Code, § 10-11-6) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 4. CERTIFICATE OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
   State of Indiana
   County of Steuben
   Before me, the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared and each separately and severally acknowledged the
execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary act and deed, for
the purposes therein expressed.
Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this           day of
                          , 19    .
   Notary Public                                               
('88 Code, § 10-11-6) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Jurisdiction
   
153.03   Purpose
   
153.04   Definitions
   
153.05   Minimum requirements
General Regulations
   
153.15   Signs
   
153.16   Off-street parking
   
153.17   Off-street loading
   
153.18   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
153.19   Home occupations
   
153.20   Stairs and stairways
   
153.21   Other general regulations
   
153.22   Driveways
   
153.23   Accessory structure/garage with bathroom
Zoning Districts; District Regulations
   
153.35   Establishment of districts
   
153.36   District boundaries
   
153.37   Agriculture (A) District
   
153.38   Single-Family Residential (R-1) District
   
153.39   Lake Residential (R-2) District
   
153.40   Multi-Family Residential (R-3) District
   
153.41   Mobile Home (R-4) District
   
153.42   General Business (B-1) District
   
153.43   Commercial Recreation (B-2) District
   
153.44   Light Industrial (I-1) District
   
153.45   Select Industrial (I-2) District
   
153.46   Park Model Home (R-5) District
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.55   Zoning Administrator
   
153.56   Town Plan Commission
   
153.57   Town Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.58   Improvement location permits
   
153.59   Fees
   
153.60   Amendments
   
153.61   Remedies
Planned Developments
   
153.75   Districts established
   
153.76   Development plan
   
153.77   Application
   
153.78   Contents and provisions
   
153.79   Pre-application conference
   
153.80   Plan submittal and approval process
   
153.81   Covenants
   
153.82   Private streets
   
153.83   Inspection of public improvements
   
153.84   Standards of improvements
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Zoning Ordinance of the
Town of Hamilton, Indiana and Recorded Jurisdictional Area.
(‘88 Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 88-5, passed 5-2-88;
Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 153.02 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all lands within the
corporate limits of Hamilton and all recorded jurisdictional area.
(‘88 Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 88-5, passed 5-2-88;
Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 153.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public health,
safety, morals, comforts, and general welfare of the people. Zoning is
essentially a means of insuring that land uses of the community are properly
situated in relation to one another; that density of development in each area
is held at a level which can be properly serviced by such governmental
facilities systems as the street, school, recreation, and utilities systems;
that the taxable value of buildings and land is conserved; to prohibit uses and
structures incompatible with the character of development or intended uses
within specified zoning districts; to provide for the elimination of non-
conforming uses of land and buildings which are adversely affecting the
character and value of desirable development.
(‘88 Code, § 10-1-3) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 88-5, passed 5-2-88;
Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 153.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE or APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory structures should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory
structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES WITH LIVING QUARTERS.
      (1)   A property owner or occupant wishing to construct a new garage or
accessory structure, or remodel any existing accessory structure or garage,
which shall include living quarters must submit an improvement location permit
and meet all of the requirements in connection therewith.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the accessory structure or garage
shall be referred to ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR GARAGE WITH LIVING QUARTERS.
      (3)   Living quarters are defined as bedrooms, bathrooms, living rooms,
and a kitchen.
      (4)   An ACCESSORY STRUCTURE WITH LIVING QUARTERS shall be permitted in
R-1, R-2, and R-3 Districts as a permitted use.
      (5)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES OR GARAGES WITH LIVING QUARTERS are not
permitted as the principal use on a lot.
      (6)   The ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR GARAGE WITH LIVING QUARTERS shall not be
rented and shall not be an income producing property.
      (7)   An ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR GARAGE WITH LIVING QUARTERS shall also
comply with all other developmental standards of this chapter.
      (8)   The living quarters shall not exceed 800 square feet of the
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE WITH LIVING QUARTERS.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar establishment that
regularly features live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities or films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions in which
a substantial portion of the total presentation is devoted to the showing of
material that is characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for farming, dairying, pasturage, agricultural,
animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses for treating and
storing the produce.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction, or any
change in the structural members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams, or girders.
   BUILDING. A structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof
supported by columns or walls, and intended for the shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind. A building shall include
mobile homes, manufactured housing, sheds, garages, greenhouses, pole barns and
used for the purposes of a building and similar structures. A building shall
not include such structures as signs, fences or smokestacks, but shall include
structures such as storage tanks, produce silos, coal bunkers, oil cracking
towers or similar structures.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit designed to insure buildings are constructed to
building standards as specifications per Building Code ordinance (see
Improvement Location Permit).
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot on
which it is located is conducted. Not more than one principal building shall be
permitted on any one lot. In any zoning district, an accessory building shall
not be erected before a lot’s principal building.
   CANOPY. An overhanging or suspended shelter, enclosure or roof-like
structure supported on pillars or a frame (projecting from a wall or free-
standing) used for the shelter, protection or storage of persons and/or
property of any kind. The posts or pillars or other structure supporting the
canopy shall be imbedded at least 36 inches below grade. Seasonal canopies,
which are defined as canopies permitted during the months of September through
and including the following May, and which are used for the shelter, protection
or storage of water craft, boat lifts, piers, and similar lake-related personal
property, but not motor vehicles, shall require an improvement location permit
which permit shall be issued with no permit fee. Seasonal canopies are exempt
from the requirement that posts or pillars be embedded at least 36 inches below
grade but must be erected in such a fashion as to meet or exceed the minimum
installation and erection standards recommended by the manufacturer.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of
land.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings and other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfaced roads; or
gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not involve
filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent buildings.
   DRIVEWAY. A private road which provides access to a lot, or to a use located
on such lot, from a public way.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms designed and equipped exclusively
for use as living quarters for only one family and its household employees,
which must include provisions for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. In
addition, such room or group of rooms must be placed on a permanent foundation.
DWELLING UNIT shall not include any room or group of rooms as described above
that are not placed on a permanent foundation. DWELLING UNIT also shall not
include trailers, travel trailers, campers, recreational vehicles or similar
units regardless whether such units are placed or not placed on a permanent
foundation.
   EXCAVATION. The digging and removal of material below the grade level of the
surface of the ground to construct a new below grade (below ground surface)
improvement including, but not limited to, a footer, basement, foundation,
crawlspace, patio, retaining wall or to expose any portion of a below grade
improvement for the purpose of accessing the condition of the same and to
determine whether the  same needs repaired, supported, improved, or replaced,
in whole or in part, whether in connection with new construction or a remodel
or rebuild.
   FARM. An area of uniform ownership of which the principal use is
agricultural.
   FARMSTEAD. A farm dwelling unit.
   FLOOD HAZARD ORDINANCE. A separate ordinance that restricts development in
flood prone areas, as classified by the Federal Insurance Administration. (See
Chapter 151)
   FLOOD PLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The flood plain includes both the floodway and the floodway fringe
districts.
   FLOOR AREA. The area of a building in square feet, as measured in a
horizontal plane at the ground floor level within its largest outside
dimensions, exclusive of open porches, breeze-ways, terraces, garages, exterior
stairways and all basements including walk-in basements.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The floor area of a building divided by the area of the
lots on which the building is located.
   GARAGE. An accessory building used primarily for the storage of motor
vehicles used by persons occupying a dwelling unit which is contained in the
principal building.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation conducted in a dwelling unit or an accessory
building to a dwelling unit, which is conducted by a resident of the home and
is clearly incidental to the principal use of the property as a residence.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit stating that the proposed erection,
construction, enlargement, or moving of a building or structure complies with
the provisions of the Hamilton Zoning Ordinance.
   JUNK BUILDING, JUNK SHOPS, JUNK YARDS. Any land, property, structure,
building, or combination of the same, on which junk is stored or processed.
Junk shall include rags, rubber tires, and bottles, etc.
   KENNEL. Any premises or portions thereof on which more than four dogs, cats,
or other household domestic animals over four months of age are kept or on
which more than two such animals are maintained, boarded, bred, or cared for,
in return for remuneration, or are kept for the purpose of sale.
   LOT. For the purposes of this chapter, a LOT is a parcel of land of
sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and
area, and to provide yards and other open spaces as are herein required. A LOT
shall have frontage on an improved public street or on an approved private
street.
   LOT AREA. The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street,
highway, alley, road, or other rights-of-way.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets. A lot
abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if
tangent projections of the front lot lines drawn perpendicular at the side lot
lines meet at an interior angle of less than 135° in front of the lot.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME includes MOBILE HOMES and MODULAR HOMES, but does not include
a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SITE. The area of land in a mobile home park for the
parking of one mobile home.
   MANUFACTURING. Heavy manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing
and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive
in character, require large sites, open storage and service areas, extensive
services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation; and  normally
generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare, air
pollution, and water pollution.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT.  Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are
usually controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet, and free of
objectionable or hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor, or dust;
operating and storing within enclosed structures; and generating little
industrial traffic and are not nuisances.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MOBILE HOME. A factory-fabricated building built on a chassis and so
constructed so as to permit it being towed upon public thoroughfares, with a
minimum living area of 480 square feet, excluding accessory structures, and
designed to be used for year-round living when connected to the required
utilities. Mobile homes include expandables and double wides, but not modulars
and HUD approved sectionals.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. See MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. See MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory-built home of two or more units built other than on
the home site. Modular homes will carry the Indiana Building Seal and be
constructed to the Indiana 360 Building Code. Modular homes must be placed on a
permanent foundation.
   NATURAL RESOURCES. The Indiana Natural Resources Commission.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building, structure or use of land existing at the time
of enactment of this chapter and which does not conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is situated.
   OCCUPIED. Includes the words intended, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied.
   PERIMETER WALL. A foundation or non-load bearing wall that follows the
exterior walls of a building and completely encloses the space between the
floor joists of the building and the ground.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A structural system transposing loads from a structure
to the earth at a depth below the established frost line, without exceeding the
safe bearing capacity or the support  soil. The foundation is so attached to
the land that it cannot be removed without material and substantial injury to
the dwelling unit and/or land.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of land in which a variety of residential,
commercial, and industrial uses are planned and developed as a whole according
to comprehensive and detailed plans with more flexible standards, such as lot
sizes and setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under
these regulations.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary use to which the premises are devoted and the
main purpose for which the premises exist.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure which is
acceptable to and approved by the Indiana  Natural Resources Commission. The
regulatory flood elevation at any location is as defined in Chapter 151. The
REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term “Base Flood.”
   RESTAURANT. An establishment existing primarily for the sale of food and
drink which is prepared, sold and consumed for the most part within the
principal building and where entertainment may be provided, but which does not
provide the performances as described in the definition of “Adult Cabaret.”
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SHORELINE. The line formed on the lands adjacent to the lake (or other
navigable body of water) as the water surface of the lake or other navigable
body of water exists at the time of application for a permit from the town. For
purposes of determining the length of the shoreline, the length shall be as
established on a current survey done by a surveyor licensed and registered in
the State of Indiana and properly certified to the owner of the real estate.
Notwithstanding the length of the shoreline as established by said survey, in
connection with any boatwell, boathouse, channel or any other manmade
alteration in the lands adjacent to the lake, the shoreline shall be deemed to
extend across the mouth of any such boatwell, boathouse, boathouse, channel or
any other manmade alteration so that only the distance across the mouth is
included in the length of the shoreline.
   SIGN. An identification, description, illustration or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or
land, and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, service,
person, institution, or business.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use or structure that may be permitted in a given
zoning district, but which requires approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals
because of its variable nature.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA or SFHA. Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the town that are subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of
the town are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of
the town prepared by the Federal Management Agency and dated August 19, 1986.
The SFHAs of the town are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map prepared for Steuben County by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and dated July 3, 1986. The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated DeKalb
County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town or that
may be annexed into the town are generally identified as such on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map prepared for DeKalb County by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated January 5, 1989. Or, the updates of any maps as the
same are prepared from time to time by the agency and the town is put on formal
notice of the same.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA. Any of the following: less than completely and
opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts
below a point immediately above the top of the areolae; or human male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Specified sexual activities mean and include
any of the following: the fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals,
pubic region, buttocks, anus or  female breasts; sexual acts, normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral copulation or
sodomy; masturbation, actual or simulated; or excretory functions as part of or
in connection with any of the activities set forth above in this definition.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on ground or attachment to something having location on the ground.
Structures include, but are not limited to, principal and accessory buildings,
radio, television and cellular phone towers, decks, fences, privacy screens,
walls, antennae, swimming pools, signs, gas or liquid storage facilities,
manufactured homes, prefabricated buildings, street directional or street name
signs and billboards. The term also includes recreational vehicles or portable
items similar to a structure located on a site for more than 180 days.
   TAVERN. An establishment existing primarily for the sale or dispensing of
liquor by the drink for on-site consumption by the general public, where minors
are not allowed on the premises, and where food may be available for on-site
consumption and entertainment provided on the premises, but which does not
provide the performances as described in the definition of “Adult Cabaret.”
   USE. The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated,
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   USED. Includes the words intended, arranged, or designed to be used or
occupied.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations of
this chapter where such modification will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the
result of the action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter
would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VETERINARY CLINIC. A structure used by a licensed veterinarian to provide
medical assistance to animals.
   YARD. An open space other than a court on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. In
calculating the size of yards, the measurement is to be taken from the furthest
protruding point of the building (i.e. eaves).
   YARD, FRONT. A yard across the full width of the lot extending from the
front lot line of the principal building to the front of the lot. The front of
the lot starts from the road right-of-way. The front yard of a lot abutting a
lake shall be that portion of the lot that abuts the lake except for lots which
abut Terry Lake.
(‘88 Code, § 10-1-4) (Ord. 88-5, passed 5-2-88; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 96-5, passed 12-2-96; Am. Ord. 98-8, passed 8-31-98; Am. Ord. 2000-12,
passed 11-6-00; Am. Ord. 2002-16, passed 1-6-03; Am. Ord. 2004-14, passed 8-2-
04; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 10-3-05; Am. Ord. 2015-3, passed 11-2-15; Am. Ord.
2016-4, passed 9-6-16; Am. Ord. 2020-3, passed 12-7-20; Am. Ord. 2022-4, passed
9-6-22)
§ 153.05 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In the interpretation and application of the provisions of this chapter, the
requirements shall be held to be the minimum of requirements for the promotion
of the public health, safety and general welfare. In case of any conflict
between this chapter, or any part thereof, and the whole or part of any
existing or future ordinance of the town, or the whole or part of any existing
or future private covenants or deeds, the most restrictive in all cases shall
apply.
(‘88 Code, § 10-8-1) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.15 SIGNS.
   (A)   In any zoning district, except as noted, the provisions of this
division (A) shall be applied to effect the safety of motorists and facilitate
traffic movement.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location where, by
reason of its position, wording, illumination, size, shape or color, it may
obstruct, impair, obscure or interfere with the view of, or be confused with,
any authorized traffic control sign, signal or device.
      (2)   No sign shall contain or make use of any phrase, symbol, shape,
form or character in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse
moving traffic.
      (3)   No exterior sign having flashing, intermittent or animated
illumination shall be permitted except:
         (a)   Electronic informational signs (electronic message boards); and
         (b)   In any zoning district where general street lighting is provided
and traffic movement on adjoining streets is regulated at 35 miles per hour or
less.
   (B)   In any district, the provisions of this division (B) shall apply.
      (1)   No part of any sign that is attached to a building shall be erected
to a height greater than the height of the building.
      (2)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within 50 feet of property
in a residential district unless the illumination of the sign is so designed
that it does not reflect or shine into or onto the property.
      (3)   No part of any freestanding sign shall be erected to a height
greater than that specified for accessory structures in the district in which
the sign is located.
      (4)   The minimum setback of a freestanding sign from any public right-
of-way or lot line shall be the minimum setback provided in the zoning district
in which the sign is located.
      (5)   The area of a sign shall be determined by the smallest circle,
triangle or rectangle that can be used to enclose the sign, exclusive of
supporting members that bear no message.
      (6)   All signs, temporary or permanent, shall be constructed or
maintained in a presentable manner for the lifetime of the sign.
      (7)   Any non-conforming sign that is or becomes deteriorated shall be
removed from the premises by the owner of the sign. A condition of
deterioration shall exist when the sign is determined by the Zoning
Administrator to be more than 30% destroyed by natural causes or otherwise. The
sign, if not removed, shall be abated as a nuisance.
      (8)   No permanent sign, whether an awning, freestanding, illuminated,
portable, projecting, roof or wall sign shall be erected within, or extend
over, a public right-of-way except for overhanging signs in the General
Business District (B-1). For a sign extending over a public roadway, the
minimum clearance from the bottom of the sign to the ground level shall be 14
feet.
   (C)   In any residential district the provisions of this division (C) shall
apply.
      (1)   One name plate shall be permitted for each dwelling unit in a
single family or multi-family structure. The name plate shall indicate nothing
other than the name and/or address of the occupant and/or a customary home
occupation. No other sign shall be allowed. This provision shall not be
construed to prohibit each dwelling from also displaying a house numbering
plate for identification.
      (2)   Multi-family residences and residential projects of all types may
display identification signs indicating nothing other than the name and/or
address of the premises and/or the name of the management. The signs shall not
exceed nine square feet in area.
      (3)   For uses other than those listed in divisions (C)(1) and (2)
eligible to display a sign, only one sign per street frontage shall be
permitted.
      (4)   In the General Business District (B-1), the provisions of this
division (C)(4) shall apply except as otherwise provided.
         (a)   Residential uses in the General Business District shall be
subject to the provisions of division (c) of this division (C)(4).
         (b)   Except in those blocks where 25% of the lots are already
occupied by business uses and where overhanging signs are already established,
no sign shall project over a lot line, and no sign shall project into a
required yard by more than two feet.
         (c)   Any sign that advertises a product or service no longer
available on the premises of a business that has permanently closed or has
moved from the premises shall be removed by the owner of the premises.
         (d)   Trailers or box trucks of any kind, whether operational or not
operational, shall not be used as stationary advertising signs.
         (e)   One sign with a net sign area of 250 square feet shall be
permitted in the sign area.
   (D)   In the industrial districts, each business or industrial use shall be
permitted identification signs as an incidental use of the lot.
   (E)   The signs permitted by this division (E) shall be allowed in any
zoning district.
      (1)   Each public recreation, community facility or clinic use shall be
permitted one bulletin board or identification sign not to exceed 12 square
feet, except that uses occupying extended frontages shall be permitted one such
sign per 200 feet of frontage.
      (2)   Each permitted or required parking area that has a capacity of more
than five cars shall be permitted one sign, not more than two square feet in
area, designating each entrance and exit from such parking area; and one sign,
not more than nine square feet in area, identifying or designating the
conditions of use of such parking area for each 25 spaces except that a minimum
of one such sign shall be permitted.
      (3)   One sign, not more than 20 square feet in area, pertaining to the
sale of agricultural products raised on the premises, shall be permitted.
      (4)   Signs established by, or by order of, any governmental agency shall
be permitted.
      (5)   One sign, not more than 32 square feet in area, for construction or
development, giving the name of the contractors, engineers or architects shall
be permitted, but only during the time that construction or development is
actively underway.
      (6)   Off-premises signs shall be defined and allowed by this
subdivision. An off-premises sign is defined as any sign which identifies,
describes, illustrates or directs the reader’s attention to a product, service,
activity, business or commercial enterprise not sold, provided or conducted on
the premises on which the sign is located. An off-premises sign shall be
permitted for the following time periods and with the following fees:
         (a)   For the first 14 days (the “initial period”) –$25.
         (b)   An additional 14 days consecutive to the initial period - no
additional fee.
         (c)   A third 14-day period consecutive to the second 14-day period -
$50.
         (d)   A fourth 14-day period consecutive to the third 14-day period -
no fee.
         (e)   No further extensions of time will be allowed within a 90-day
period beginning with the first day of the initial period.
         (f)   After the expiration of the 90-day period beginning with the
first day of the initial period, an off-premises sign permit may be renewed for
one more 14-day period at a fee of $100.
         (g)   Portable signs shall be permitted in any district provided the
signs have been issued a sign permit. A portable sign shall be permitted for an
initial period of 14 days and may be renewed one time only for an additional 14
days (for a total of 28 days). There shall be only one portable sign on any
lot.
   (F)   Temporary and portable signs shall be permitted as follows:
      (1)   In a residential subdivision, the developer of record shall be
allowed to erect one sign, not to exceed 128 square feet in area, advertising
the sale of lots within the subdivision. No single dimension of the sign shall
exceed 16 feet. There shall be one sign located at the entrance of the
subdivision, which sign shall be within the boundaries of the subdivision. The
setback from the front or side lot line shall be equal to one-half of the
required front building setback as specified in the zoning district in which
the subdivision is located. Signs shall be removed by the developer or his or
her agent upon completion of the sale of 90% of the lots in the subdivision.
      (2)   All political signs shall be erected and removed within the time
period allowed by the provisions of the Indiana Code.
         (a)   All campaign literature of any type, including, but not limited
to, signs, posters, pamphlets, brochures, any written material and any other
campaign items shall be prohibited from all property owned by the town,
occupied by the town, or leased by the town, or any of its departments.
         (b)   CAMPAIGN MATERIAL, including but not limited to, signs, posters,
pamphlets, brochures, any written material or campaign items, is also
prohibited from:
            1.   The rights-of-way of State Road 427 and State Road 1; and
            2.   The rights-of-way of all streets and roads, including alleys,
dedicated to the public, within the corporate limits of the town.
         (c)   Town officials are authorized to remove campaign literature in
violation of this section.
            1.   The town shall attempt to notify the party or organization
that placed campaign material in violation of this section so that the campaign
material may be retrieved.
            2.   In the event that campaign material is not retrieved after
notification to the organization or party, and in the case the town can not
determine who to notify, the campaign material shall be kept secure until after
the election then, if unclaimed, shall be destroyed as soon as practicable
after the election.
      (3)   Signs advertising or giving directions to an official or special
event are allowed to be erected no more than 24 hours before the event and
removed no later than 24 hours after the event is concluded.
      (4)   One “For Sale” or “For Rent” sign or a sign identifying the
principal builder or general contractor of a structure on a lot (such as “Built
by ABC Builders”), not more than 12 square feet for each dwelling unit, garage
or other quarters shall be allowed. However, in Zoning District R-2, two such
signs are allowed, provided only one is placed on the lake side and only one is
placed on the street side.
      (5)   One “Open House” sign is allowed for the completed structure that
is offered for sale, such Open House sale sign shall be located on the same lot
as the structure offered for sale.
      (6)   This provision deals with signs connected or related to
construction or remodeling of a dwelling unit, garage or other structure being
erected on a lot upon which such signs shall be subject to the following
regulations:
         (a)   This provision applies to “For Sale,” “For Rent,” “Built by ABC
Builders,” and the like signs and signs for subcontractors, material men and
suppliers of labor and material for the structure being constructed on the lot.
         (b)   All such signs shall be no more than 12 square feet in size.
Subcontractors, material men and suppliers of labor and material are limited to
one sign per lot.
         (c)   Signs for the general contractor, principal builder,
subcontractor, material men and suppliers of labor and material shall be
removed at such time as the Zoning Administration receives notification and
request for concurrence of the issuance of an occupancy permit from the
Building Departments of Steuben or DeKalb County. Such sign shall be removed by
the homeowner or builder/general contractor.
         (d)   All signs subject to the provisions of this division (F)(6)
shall be centrally located in a cluster on the lot.
   (G)   Each sign as permitted by this section shall require a sign permit. An
application for a sign permit shall be made upon a form provided by the Zoning
Administrator and shall contain or have attached thereto, at a minimum, the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The location of the lot or tract of property on which the sign is
proposed to be constructed;
      (3)   The proposed location of the sign upon the lot or tract;
      (4)   The type of material comprising the sign and the size of the
proposed sign; and
      (5)   Such other information as the Zoning Administrator shall require to
show compliance with this section and other town ordinances.
      (6)   For any event of public interest, such as a Fourth of July
celebration, county fair, church event or the like, one sign of not over 24
square feet in area and located on the site or on property adjacent to the site
of the event shall be permitted. The sign shall not be erected for more than a
few days before the event commences and shall be removed immediately after such
event concludes. Also, directional signs, not more than 3 square feet in area,
showing only a directional arrow and the name of the event shall be permitted.
The directional signs shall not be erected more than 14 days before the event
commences and shall be removed immediately upon the event concluding.
      (7)   Exceptions. Signs allowed pursuant to §
153.15(F) may be erected without a permit.
   (H)   The denial of a sign permit by the Zoning Administrator may be
appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals. Non-profit organizations and municipal
organizations will be issued permits at no charge and each application for
Improvement Location Permit for a sign shall be accompanied by a fee as
established in §
153.59(B)(7).
   (I)   The penalty provisions of §
153.99 shall apply to violations of this section. Also, a violation of this
section is declared to be a common nuisance and may be abated under existing
law.
(‘88 Code, § 10-3-1) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 91-4, passed 1-6-92;
Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94; Am. Ord. 2002-22, passed 6-6-03; Am. Ord. 2007-
04, passed 5-7-07; Am. Ord. 2011-7, passed 12-29-11; Am. Res. 2014-5, passed 6-
2-14; Am. Res. 2016-3, passed 6-6-16)
Cross-reference:
   Abatement of nuisances, see §
93.03
§ 153.16 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   All new, used or enlarged existing uses must conform to the off-street
parking requirements established below:
   (A)   Parking spaces may be located on a lot within 300 feet of the lot
containing the principal use.
   (B)   All off-street parking shall be hard surfaced and adequately drained.
   (C)   Each parking space shall be less than 180 square feet excluding the
space required for ingress and egress.
   (D)   Schedule of off-street parking:
      (1)   To reduce traffic problems and hazards by eliminating unnecessary
on-street parking, every use of land must include on-premises parking
sufficient for the needs normally generated by the use, as provided by this
section. Parking spaces or bays contiguous to the street, required by
subdivision or other ordinances, are in addition to, and not in place of, the
spaces so required.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PARKING SPACE. An area, not including any part of a street or an
alley, designed or used for the temporary parking of a motor vehicle.
         PARKING AREA. A group of parking spaces, or an open area not including
any part of a street or an alley, designed or used for the temporary parking of
motor vehicles.
      (3)   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided for the following newly
constructed land uses:
         (a)   Minimum requirements: Each automobile parking space shall not be
less than 180 square feet (nine feet by 20 feet) in area.
         (b)   Parking requirements for specific uses are as follows:
            1.   Any place of assembly without fixed seats: At least one
parking space for each six seats based on the maximum seating capacity of the
facility, including fixed and movable seats.
            2.   Auditorium, theater, gymnasium, stadium or any other place of
assembly, except churches: At least one parking space for each four seats based
on the maximum seating capacity of the facility, including fixed and movable
seats. (Example: A maximum seating capacity of 360 would require 90 spaces.)
            3.   Barber shops or beauty shops: At least three parking spaces
for each barber or beautician operating in a shop.
            4.   Bowling alley: At least three parking spaces for each bowling
lane. (Example: A bowling alley with 12 lanes would require 36 spaces.)
            5.   Collective parking facilities: Collective parking facilities
for two or more buildings or uses may be allowed. However, the total number of
off-street parking spaces required is the total of the parking spaces required
for each use. (Example: Two businesses share a parking lot. One business would
require five parking spaces if it had its own lot; the other business would
require three spaces if it had its own lot. The number of parking spaces for
the combined lot therefore cannot be less than eight.)
            6.   Eating or drinking establishment, or any similar use, where
customers are seated and served within a building: At least one parking space
for every three seats, plus one parking space per employee per shift. (Example:
An eating establishment with a dining / serving room floor area of 48 seats,
and seven employees on the first shift, would require 23 parking spaces.)
            7.   Eating and/or drinking establishment, or any similar use,
where customers are served outside of a building: At least one parking space
for each 50 square feet of gross floor area. There shall not be less than six
parking spaces for each such establishment. (Example: An eating establishment
with a gross floor area of 300 square feet would require 12 spaces).
            8.   Food market or any similar use. At least one parking space for
each 200 square feet of gross floor area.
            9.   Furniture, household appliance or mechanical trades display
store or any other similar use: At least one parking space for each 1,000
square feet of gross ground floor area plus one space for each 1,500 square
feet of the gross area of floor space other than the ground floor used for
sales, display or show purposes.
            10.   Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, homes for the aged: At
least one parking space per each four beds, plus one parking space for each
employee and doctor.
            11.   Hotel, motel or any similar use: At least one parking space
per sleeping room in addition to whatever spaces may be required for any
restaurant facilities that may be part of the lodging facility.
            12.   Launderette, laundromat, self-service laundry, washeteria, or
any similar use: At least one parking space for each two washing machines.
(Example: A laundromat with 40 washers would require 20 spaces.)
            13.   Manufactured housing park: At least two parking spaces on the
same parcel of land for each manufactured house, plus two spaces for every
three lots located elsewhere within the park tract. The configuration and
location of the lots shall be determined by the developer subject to the
approval of the Plan Commission.
            14.   Medical clinic or any other similar use: At least one parking
space per 100 square feet of waiting room area and one per doctor or dentist
and one per each full time employee. (Example: A medical clinic with a 700
square foot waiting room, two doctors and five full-time employees would
require 14 spaces.)
            15.   Mixed uses: In the event mixed uses are located in the same
building or structure, the total number of off-street parking spaces shall be
the sum of the requirements of the various uses computed according to the
standards specified in this section. Off-street parking facilities for one use
shall not be considered as providing the required parking facilities for any
other use.
            16.   Multiple family dwelling: At least two parking spaces per
dwelling. (Example: 20 dwelling units would require 40 spaces.)
            17.   Office building or professional office or any other similar
use: At least one parking space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area.
(Example: A 10,000 square foot office building would require 25 spaces.)
            18.   Processing, wholesaling, warehousing, manufacturing or any
other industrial use or commercial establishment not specifically set out in
this division (D): At least one parking space for each two employees plus
sufficient space to park all company-owned or leased motor vehicles, semi-
trailers and trailers. (Example: A factory with 150 employees would require, at
a minimum, 75 spaces.)
            19.   Retail store or service: At least one parking space for each
400 square feet of gross floor area. (Example: A store with a gross floor area
of 10,000 square feet would require 25 spaces.)
            20.   Self-service car wash: At least three parking spaces for each
washing stall.
            21.   Schools: Parking spaces for schools shall be provided as
follows:
               a.   Elementary - middle schools: At least one parking space per
employee and two spaces per classroom, plus designated areas for buses.
               b.   Secondary schools: At least one parking space per employee
and six spaces per classroom, plus designated areas for buses.
               c.   Universities, technical and vocational schools: At least
one parking space per employee, 12 spaces per classroom, and one space per each
200 square feet of building space.
   (E)   For uses not listed in the schedule of parking requirements, parking
spaces shall be proved on the same basis as required for most similar use
listed.
   (F)   Commercial and institutional establishments occupying existing
buildings in the Central Business District and businesses which are now or
hereafter established in former residential structures in properly zoned areas
are exempt from parking requirements outlined in divisions (A) through (E) of
this section.
(‘88 Code, § 10-3-2) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 2011-1, passed 3-7-11)
§ 153.17 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Every building which requires the receipt or distribution of material or
merchandise by vehicle shall provide off-street loading berths of size and
arrangement appropriate for the type of vehicles utilizing this space. Loading
or unloading shall not be permitted within public right-of-ways. This provision
will not be construed in such a manner as to adversely affect businesses in
existence at the time of its passage.
(‘88 Code, § 10-3-3) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 153.18 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Any lawful use of land or structure existing or under construction and
progressing diligently at the time of adoption of this chapter which does not
conform to the specifications of this chapter may be continued subject to the
following limitations:
   (A)   Nonconforming structures.
      (1)   Maintenance and repairs. A nonconforming structure may be repaired
and maintained, provided no structural change is made subject to provisions
otherwise imposed by this section.
      (2)   Additions and changes. A nonconforming structure shall not be
structurally altered or enlarged in any manner, unless that portion of the
structure altered or enlarged will conform to all the requirements of the
district in which it is located.
   (B)   Nonconforming uses. Nonconforming uses may be changed only to
conforming uses except under division (C) below, or as similarly provided for
in §
153.38(B),
153.39(B) or
153.40(B).
   (C)   Permitted changes. The Board of Zoning Appeals may grant a special
exception for an alteration, use change, or expansion of a nonconforming use or
structure, if in the opinion of the Board the change will make the use or
structure more compatible with the zoning district.
   (D)   Amortization.
      (1)   When a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of 24
months, the use shall not be re-established and any use thereafter of that
property shall be in conformance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   No building damaged by fire or other cause to the extent of 50% of
its cash value immediately prior to the damage shall be rebuilt or repaired
except in full conformance to the provisions of this section. However, if the
rebuilding cannot be made in full conformance, the rebuilding will be allowed
under division (C) herein, if it is determined that the rebuilding would be in
the best interest of the community.
(‘88 Code, § 10-3-4) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-4-19)
§ 153.19 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Businesses are permitted within residences in any zoning district subject to
the following requirements:
   (A)   No more than one person other than members of the family residing on
the premises shall be engaged in the occupation;
   (B)   The occupation is to be located within the residence or a pre-existing
accessory building, or within a newly constructed accessory building
constructed primarily as a garage;
   (C)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be clearly
incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its occupant,
and not more than 20% of the total floor area of the dwelling unit and
accessory structures shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation;
   (D)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of the home occupation other
than one sign, not exceeding four square feet in area, non-illuminated, and
mounted against the wall of the principal building;
   (E)   No traffic shall be generated by the home occupation in greater volume
than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any need for
parking generated by the conduct of the home occupation shall meet the off-
street parking requirements as specified in this section, and shall not be
located in a required front yard; and
   (F)   No equipment or process shall be used in the home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no equipment
or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference in any
radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations in line
voltage off the premises.
(‘88 Code, § 10-3-5) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 91-4, passed 1-6-92;
Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 153.20 STAIRS AND STAIRWAYS.
   (A)   Stairs and/or a stairway proposed as part of an improvement,
including, but not limited to, a deck, dwelling or other improvement, shall be
considered a part of that deck, dwelling or other improvement, and shall be
subject to all building lines and setbacks.
   (B)   Improvement location permits are required for all decks, whether new
or replacing an existing deck. The applicable improvement location permit fee
shall be charged for all deck permits, except in the case of decks less than 30
square feet in size (including steps and landings), in which case no fee shall
be charged.
(Ord. 95-7, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 2002-15, passed 11-4-02)
§ 153.21 OTHER GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Limit. Only one principal building or structure shall be permitted on
any lot.
   (B)   Residential corner lots. No fence, wall, hedge, or other structure or
plant that would obstruct vision will be permitted within the triangle formed
by the street pavement edge and a line extending between the points along the
pavement edge 25 feet from the corner.
   (C)   Unclassified uses. If the Zoning Administrator is unable to determine
whether a proposed use is permitted, he shall make an interpretation based on
the intent of the Comprehensive Plan. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear
appeals of interpretations made by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Vacated areas. Whenever a street, alley or other public way shall be
vacated, the street, alley, or way shall be classified in the same zoning
district as the adjoining property. Should the street, alley or way divide two
or more different zoning districts, the Plan Commission shall decide the zoning
of the area.
   (E)   Manufactured homes. All manufactured home units must meet any
applicable floor area requirements within one unit. It shall not be permissible
to join more than one manufactured home unit or to make site built additions to
a unit in order to meet minimum floor area requirements. Double-wide and multi-
sections, which are constructed in separate sections due to transportation
limitations and are designed and sold as one unit shall meet the requirements
of this clause.
   (F)   Roofing materials. Unless otherwise specified, all new or relocated
homes shall utilize only the following materials as an exterior roofing
material:
      (1)   Asbestos shingles;
      (2)   Fiberglass shingles;
      (3)   Shake shingles;
      (4)   Asphalt shingles;
      (5)   Tile materials;
      (6)   Approved metal roofing materials; and
      (7)   Approved rubber or rubberized roofing materials.
   (G)   Foundations. Unless otherwise specified under permitted uses, all new
or relocated homes shall be placed upon a permanent foundation and have a
permanent perimeter wall constructed of poured concrete, cement block or stone.
   (H)   Special exceptions for existing uses. When a use in existence at the
time of passage of this section is listed as a special exception in the zoning
district in which it is located, a special exception shall automatically be
granted for that use. The special exception shall be effective the date of
passage of this section.
   (I)   Substandard lot of record. A lot which is an official lot of record at
the time of adoption of this section is exempt from the minimum lot area and
floor area ratio requirements of this section. However, if the lot owner
intends to utilize it for building purposes and cannot meet the setback
requirements, then the owner must apply for a variance from the terms of this
section.
   (J)   General fence provisions. The Zoning Administrator shall approve all
fences. All fences except boundary line fences in agricultural districts shall
have a two-foot setback from the property line unless the property owners
mutually agree otherwise in writing and record the agreement with the Steuben
County Recorder. No fence is to be erected closer than two feet from any
sidewalk, public property or right-of-way. No fence shall be erected or
situated in such a manner as to obscure vision of drivers on public streets or
highways. Fences, new and replacement, require an improvement location permit
as an accessory use.
   (K)   Residential fence restrictions. In the R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-
4 districts, the following additional restrictions shall apply:
      (1)   The town classifies fences into two main categories and those
categories are solid fence and open fence. A solid fence is less than 50% open
as viewed from the outside of the fence. An open fence is categorized as having
greater than 50% open as viewed from the outside of the fence.
      (2)   Solid fences and open fences may be placed as follows:
         (a)   Solid fences may not exceed six feet in height. Open fences may
not exceed six feet in height.
         (b)   Solid fences and open fences may be placed in a rear yard and
the fences may also be placed in a side yard subject to the applicable setbacks
and also subject to the provisions of §
153.21(J).
      (3)   Security fences (chain link or wooden) not exceeding six feet in
height may be placed as follows:
         (a)   Rear yard subject to the applicable setback and also subject to
the provisions of §
153.21(J).
         (b)   Side yard subject to the applicable setback and also subject to
the provisions of §
153.21(J), but in no case shall the side yard fence be located nearer the front
yard than the front of the house.
         (c)   For the purposes of this section, the side of a house facing a
public street on a corner lot shall be considered the front of the house and
the side yard facing the street considered a front yard.
      (4)   All fences shall be maintained and kept in good repair.
      (5)   The height of a fence shall be measured from the top of the fence
(excluding post or end caps) when those post or end caps are six inches or less
in height but including the post or end caps when they exceed six inches in
height. The measurement shall be taken from the top of the fence to the surface
of the yard grade immediately beneath the fence.
      (6)   All fences shall be constructed without alteration to the grade of
the lot. The placing, locating or accumulating materials such as mulch, rocks,
gravel, and soil underneath a fence is deemed to be an alteration of the grade
of the lot and is prohibited. The use of pre-built sections of fence on lots
with a grade steep enough to result in the “stair stepping” of fences is
discouraged. Alterations of the grade to that portion of a lot where a fence is
proposed to be erected are not permitted unless a grading plan is submitted to
and approval by the Zoning Administrator.
      (7)   Fences in easements are discouraged. Fences in easements that are
exclusively for lake access are prohibited. Fences constructed in an easement
are subject to the conditions of the easement which may result in the fence
being removed in order for work to be done in the easement. All removals and
replacements or repairs will be done at the expense of the property owner.
   (L)   Special fences.
      (1)   Temporary snow fences shall be permitted from October 1 to April 1
considering acts of God without prior approval.
      (2)   Swimming pools shall be fenced upon completion or within seven days
after being filled with water whichever occurs first. Existing pools have six
months to comply. The town or its agents, commissions, or boards shall not be
held responsible for the adequacy of the fence or the noncompliance of any
landowner. The fence shall be a security-type fence not less than five feet in
height which completely encloses the pool area. This requirement applies to
both above ground and inground pools and permanently installed above ground
pools with a filtration system.
      (3)   Hedges and boundary line shrubs are not considered fences for the
purposes of divisions (J) and (K) except that no hedge shall be planted within
two feet of the property line or permitted to grow in such a manner as to
obscure vision of drivers on public streets or highways, or lake views in lake
residential areas, or to a height exceeding four feet, or beyond the owner’s
property line.
   (M)   Residential rezoning. Areas within or outside the corporate limits
shall not be rezoned R-1, R- 2, R-3 or R-4 if the area to be rezoned is within
1,000 feet of an industrial district.
   (N)   Buffer strips. The Plan Commission shall require a buffer strip of not
less than 20 feet around all sides of an industrial site.
   (O)   Industrial zoning.
      (1)   Industrial rezoning shall not occur around or near lakes, the
downtown area, adjacent to housing development or within 1,500 feet of the
Hamilton Community Schools.
      (2)   Industrial zoning shall not occur within 1,000 feet of R-1, R-2, R-
3 or R-4 districts.
   (P)   Livestock and poultry. Livestock and poultry, excluding domesticated
house pets, 4-H projects, F.F.A. projects and school-related projects shall not
be raised, boarded or pastured in subdivisions, residential zoning districts or
business districts unless the parcel of land is two acres or larger in size.
   (Q)   Detached garages and storage buildings. Detached garages or storage
buildings to be constructed in subdivisions and/or residential zoning districts
exceeding 15 feet in height and/or having ground floor area exceeding 1,200
square feet will require a development standard variance.
   (R)   Property located in two zoning districts. When a property is located
in two zoning districts, the most restrictive requirements shall apply.
   (S)   Sheds.
      (1)   A shed is an accessory structure that is not used or designed for
human occupancy.
      (2)   A shed of 200 square feet of less of floor area may be located on a
foundation or on skids.
      (3)   A shed of 201 square feet up through and including 720 square feet
of floor area must be located on a permanent foundation as required by the
Indiana Building Code and as administered by the Steuben County Building
Department or the DeKalb County Building Department, as the case may be, the
appropriate building department shall be contacted for the then existing
foundation requirements.
      (4)   A shed of 721 square feet or more of floor area must be located on
a foundation with 36- inch footers.
      (5)   Sheds of 201 square feet or more must also comply with the shed
regulations of Steuben County or DeKalb County, as the case may be.
      (6)   All sheds require an improvement location permit; however, sheds
less than 30 square feet of floor area shall be issued an improvement location
permit at no charge.
   (T)   Semi-trailer.  
      (1)   Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests on or is carried by another
vehicle.
      (2)   A semi-trailer is not a structure, accessory structure or building
as defined in Chapter 153.
      (3)   A semi-trailer used for temporary or permanent storage is
prohibited in all Residential Zoning Districts, whether or not the semi-trailer
is located on public or private property.
      (4)   Nothing contained in this division (T) shall prohibit the proper
use of a semi-trailer being drawn by a tractor for the hauling of persons or
property in its capacity as an over-the-road vehicle.
   (U)   (1)   All lake front access points including, but not limited to, lake
front recreational areas, beaches, parks, playgrounds, regardless of whether
such an area has been specifically denominated as a common area or access
point, whether located in a residential subdivision, apartment building
development, condominium, cooperative, neighborhood association, or associated
with an organization, club, retirement community, mobile home park, mobile home
subdivision, subdivisions (exempt or non- exempt) subject to the following
linear footage requirement:
      First residential unit            60 feet of shoreline
      Second residential unit         30 feet of shoreline
      Each additional residential unit   20 feet of shoreline
      (2)   Back lots which may access the lake through a lake front access
point as referred in division (U)(1) are limited to and defined as a parcel of
real estate contiguous to the lake front access point. A parcel of ground
separated from the lake front access point by a road right-of-way, which would
otherwise be touching and contiguous to the lake front access point, is
considered contiguous.
   (V)   Recreational vehicle. The use of recreational vehicles, motor homes
and similar vehicles (hereinafter collectively referred to as “recreational
vehicles”) for temporary living quarters on a lot, parcel, or tract of real
estate and any combination of lots, tracts or parcels of real estate upon which
there is situated a residence as the principal structure is prohibited in all
zoning districts except as otherwise provided herein. A recreational vehicle
may be used for temporary living quarters for no longer than 72 continuous
hours and then only once in a 30 day period. The first day of any 30 day period
is the day of a prior violation of this chapter, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator. It shall be presumed that a recreational vehicle is being used
for residential purpose if it remains parked for more than 72 continuous hours,
is connected to a power source or is running a generator, or is connected to a
water source. It shall not be a defense to a citation for the violation of this
division that the recreational vehicle was moved or driven during the 72 hour
period. Violations of this division shall be considered a violation of the
Hamilton Zoning Code and will also be considered a violation of the Hamilton
Nuisance Ordinance. Each day a violation occurs or is permitted to occur shall
be considered a separate violation. This division shall not apply to R-4 Mobile
Home District.
(‘88 Code, § 10-3-6) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 91-4, passed 1-6-92;
Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94; Am. Ord. 98-8, passed 8-31-98; Am. Ord. 2002-17,
passed 11-4-02; Am. Ord. 2002-18, passed 12-2-02; Am. Ord. 2003-03, passed 5-5-
03; Am. Ord. 2004-04, passed 3-1-04; Am. Ord. 2004-19, passed 10-4-04; Am. Ord.
2004-24, passed 12-6-04; Am. Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-19-06; Am. Ord. 2006-11,
passed 9-11-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-26-12; Am. Ord. 2013-3, passed 3-4-
13; Am. Ord. 2021-3, passed 4-5-21)
§ 153.22 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   A driveway is defined as a private road which provides access from a
tract of land to the roads and rights-of-ways maintained by the town used by
motor vehicles.
   (B)   Before any landowner constructs a driveway for ingress and egress to
roads and rights-of-way maintained by the Town of Hamilton, the landowner shall
apply for a driveway permit.
   (C)   There shall be no application fee charged for a driveways used solely
for ingress and egress for agricultural purposes.
   (D)   Fees in connection with driveways shall be charged as found in §
153.59(B)(5) and (6).
   (E)   It is a Class F infraction for any landowner to construct a driveway
without obtaining a permit for the same from the Town of Hamilton.
(Ord. 95-8, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 2011-7, passed 12-29-11)
§ 153.23 ACCESSORY STRUCTURE/GARAGE WITH BATHROOM.
   (A)   Any property owner or occupant wishing to construct a new garage or
accessory structure (or remodel or add on to an existing accessory structure or
garage) which shall include a sink or a toilet must submit an improvement
location permit and meet all of the requirements in connection therewith.
   (B)   For purposes of this section the accessory structure or garage shall
be referred to as accessory structure/garage with bathroom.
   (C)   A bathroom shall consist of a sink and toilet only and shall not
include any bathing facilities.
   (D)   An accessory structure/garage with bathroom shall be permitted in R-1,
R-2 and R-3 Districts as a permitted use.
   (E)   The accessory structure/garage with bathroom is not permitted as the
principal use on a lot.
   (F)   The accessory structure/garage with bathroom shall not be permitted if
it is determined it shall be a dwelling unit.
   (G)   The accessory structure/garage with bathroom shall not be rented and
shall not be an income producing property.
   (H)   An accessory structure/garage with bathroom shall also comply with all
other developmental standards of this chapter.
   (I)   This section shall be enforceable by the town through the Plan
Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, or Zoning Administrator and all the
remedies in §
153.61, as hereafter amended, are available to the town.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 9-5-17) Penalty, see §
153.99
ZONING DISTRICTS; DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the town and its recorded
jurisdictional area are divided into the following zoning districts:
      (A)    Agricultural District
      (R-1)   Single Family Residential District
      (R-2)   Lake Residential District
      (R-3)   Multi-Family Residential District
      (R-4)   Mobile Home District
      (B-1)   General Business District
      (B-2)   Commercial Recreation District
      (I-1)   Light Industrial District
   (B)   These districts are shown on the zoning maps of the town and the
jurisdictional areas which are incorporated by reference herein.
(‘88 Code, § 10-4-1) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 153.36 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of each zoning district are identified on the zoning map.
Most boundary lines follow corporate limit lines, lot lines, property lines, or
extensions of those lines. Where uncertainty exists as to the location of a
district boundary, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where no corporate lot, property lines or their extensions are
apparent, the boundary shall be located from the scale of the zoning maps.
   (B)   If the boundary location is still uncertain, the Zoning Administrator
shall interpret the intent of the zoning map as to the location of the boundary
in question.
   (C)   Should any lands be reclaimed from lakes indicated on the zoning map
or should lands portrayed on the map as a part of a lake be in fact dry land,
the lands shall automatically be zoned R-2.
(‘88 Code, § 10-4-2) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 153.37 AGRICULTURE (A) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses and commercial grain storage.
      (2)   Buildings accessory to agricultural use, including single family
farmsteads, provided, however no building for the housing nor feeding of
livestock, poultry or horses shall be constructed within 100 feet of a R or B
District (this restriction shall not apply if a Residential or Commercial
district is established within 100 feet of existing operations.
      (3)   Home occupations.
      (4)   Single family residences.
      (5)   Churches, public parks, schools, libraries, cemeteries and other
public buildings, utilities and services.
      (6)   Mining, quarrying and commercial forestry.
      (7)   Kennels.
      (8)   Veterinary clinics.
   (B)   Special exception.
      (1)   Sale of agricultural products produced on the premises.
      (2)   Scrap yard or junk yard, provided the use is shielded from view of
surrounding roads by a solid fence of at least six feet in height.
      (3)   Planned unit development, provided that all standards set by the
Plan Commission are met.
      (4)   A use permitted under §
153.45, “Select Industrial.”
      (5)   Wireless communication facilities, but only if the requirements of
§
153.44(B)(4) are met.
   (C)   Yard and building requirements.
      (1)   Setbacks. All primary and accessory buildings and structures shall
be located a minimum of 20 feet from the adjoining property lines.
      (2)   Minimum floor area. All dwellings shall have a minimum floor area
of 1000 square feet.
   (D)   Special provisions. Dwellings in this district shall be exempt from
the provisions of §
153.21(F) and (G).
(‘88 Code, § 10-4-3) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-00)
§ 153.38 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-1) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Home occupations.
      (3)   Churches, public parks, schools, libraries, cemeteries and other
public buildings, utilities and services.
      (4)   Buildings and uses accessory to the above permitted uses.
   (B)   Special exceptions.
      (1)   Two-family dwellings and three-family dwellings, subject to the
yard and building requirements listed for the R-3 District.
      (2)   Planned unit development, provided that all standards set by the
Plan Commission are met.
      (3)   The alteration, use, change or expansion of a nonconforming use or
structure when the change will make the use or structure more compatible with
the zoning district. The change may include the upgrade and replacement of a
mobile home.
   (C)   Yard and building requirements. In calculating the size of yards and/
or measuring to establish setback lines, the measurement is to be taken from
the furthest protruding point of the building, such as eaves, steps, ramps,
decks, porches and the like.
      (1)   (a)   Front Yard      25 feet minimum
         (b)   Side Yard   5 feet minimum
         (c)   Rear Yard      20-foot minimum
      (2)   Corner lots shall provide front yard setbacks on both street sides,
unless the buildable area would be less than 30 feet, in which case the yard
requirements end at the 30-foot buildable area line. Minimum floor area:
Residential - No dwelling may be established, erected or changed so that its
ground floor area, in square feet, is less than 950 square feet for one-story
dwellings and 850 square feet for more than one-story dwellings.
      (3)   Minimum lot area is 10,000 square feet if connected to a
conservancy sewer system; otherwise, the minimum lot area shall comply with the
requirements of DeKalb County or Steuben County wherever the lot or parcel
shall be located. Minimum lot width is 80 feet and the minimum lot width shall
be measured at the building setback line, also referred to as the frontyard
setback line. Maximum floor area ratio is 30%. Accessory buildings of 160
square feet or less in size, not used as a garage and not on a permanent
foundation shall observe a minimum setback of five feet. Not more than two
accessory buildings shall be permitted. The accessory buildings, one or two,
shall comply with the generally applicable setback. Accessory buildings larger
than 160 square feet in size shall observe the same setbacks as would apply to
the principal building. All accessory buildings shall only be located on the
side or rear yard.
         (a)   Minimum lot widths shall be measured at the building setback
line, also referred to as the front yard setback line.
         (b)   Minimum lot width            80 feet
         (c)   Maximum floor area ratio      40%
      (4)   Dwellings are not to exceed 35 feet in height measured from the
highest ground at foundation to the highest point of the structure. Accessory
buildings, other than a garage attached to the dwelling, are not to exceed 25
feet in height and shall have an exterior appearance similar to and in harmony
with the dwelling which exterior appearance shall be disclosed as part of the
application for the improvement location permit and shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Town Manager or his or her designee.
      (5)   Accessory buildings of 160 square feet or less in size, not used as
a garage and not on a permanent foundation shall observe a minimum setback of
five feet. Not more than two accessory buildings shall be permitted. The
accessory buildings, one or two, shall comply with the generally applicable
setback. Accessory buildings larger than 160 square feet in size shall observe
the same setbacks as would apply to the principal building.
(‘88 Code, § 10-4-4) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 95-7, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 98-8, passed 8-31-98; Am. Ord. 2002-
04, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2004- 06, passed 4-5-04; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 9-
3-13)
§ 153.39 LAKE RESIDENTIAL (R-2) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any use permitted in an R-1 District.
      (2)   Private lake-oriented recreational buildings and structures (boat
houses, docks, etc.)
   (B)   Special exceptions.
      (1)   Planned unit development, provided that, all standards set by the
Plan Commission are met.
      (2)   A mobile home meeting the following requirements for mobile home
district:
         (a)   Minimum floor area. Provided the proposed use meets all other
applicable requirements for the district including but not limited to
foundation requirements, the use shall be in an area where the adjacent
improved properties are presently occupied by mobile homes or the neighborhood
is predominantly mobile homes. No mobile home shall be located on the property
which was manufactured more than five years prior to the date upon which its
location upon the property is sought.
      (3)   The alteration, use change or expansion of a nonconforming use or
structure when the change will make the use or structure more compatible with
the zoning district. A change may include the upgrade and replacement of a
mobile home.
   (C)   Yard and building requirements.
      (1)   In calculating the size of yards and/or measuring to establish
setback lines, the measurement is to be taken from the furthest protruding
point of the building, such as eaves, steps, ramps, porches and the like.
         (a)   Front yard         25 feet minimum
         (b)   Side yard      5 feet minimum
         (c)   Rear yard         20 feet minimum
         (d)   For all lots in Crystal Bay and Crystal Cove the front yard
setbacks shall be 25 feet, the rear yard setbacks shall be 25 feet and the side
yard setbacks shall be five feet, as provided in the plats.
      (2)   Accessory buildings of 160 square feet or less in size, not used as
a garage, and not on a permanent foundation shall observe a minimum setback of
five feet. Not more than two accessory buildings shall be permitted. The
accessory buildings, one or two, shall comply with the generally applicable
setback. Accessory buildings larger than 160 square feet in size shall observe
the same setbacks as would apply to the principal building. All accessory
buildings shall only be located on the side or rear yard.
      (3)   Minimum lot area is 10,000 square feet if connected to a
conservancy sewer system; otherwise, the minimum lot area shall comply with the
requirements of DeKalb County or Steuben County, wherever the lot or parcel
shall be located.
      (4)   Minimum floor area: Residential - No dwelling may be established,
erected or changed so that its ground floor area, in square feet, is less than
950 square feet for one-story dwellings and 850 square feet for more than one-
story dwellings.
      (5)   Minimum lot widths shall be measured at the building setback line,
also referred to as the front yard setback line and the minimum lot width shall
be 60 feet.
      (6)   Maximum floor area ratio is 40%.
      (7)   Dwellings are not to exceed 35 feet in height measured from the
highest ground at foundation to the highest point of the structure. Accessory
buildings, other than a garage attached to the dwelling, are not to exceed 25
feet in height and shall have an exterior appearance similar to and in harmony
with the dwelling which exterior appearance shall be disclosed as part of the
application for the improvement location permit and shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Town Manager or his or her designee.
      (8)   Corner lots shall provide front yard setbacks on both street sides,
unless the buildable area would be less than 30 feet, in which case the yard
requirements end at the 30 foot buildable area line. Minimum floor area: 950
square feet.
(‘88 Code, § 10-4-5) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 95-7, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 98-8, passed 8-31-98; Am. Ord. 2002-
04, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2003-12, passed 10-6-03; Am. Ord. 2004-06, passed
4-5-04; Am. Ord. 2004-12, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 2012-1, passed 3-5-12; Am.
Ord. 2013-8, passed 9-3-13)
§ 153.40 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-3) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Two- and multi-family dwellings.
      (2)   Any uses permitted in a R-1 District.
   (B)   Special exceptions.
      (1)   Planned unit development, provided that all standards set by the
Plan Commission are met.
      (2)   The alteration, use change or expansion of a non-conforming use or
structure when the change will make the use or structure more compatible with
the zoning district. A change may include the upgrade and replacement of a
mobile home.
   (C)   Yard and building requirements.
      (1)   In calculating the size of yards and/or measuring to establish
setback lines, the measurement is to be taken from the furthest protruding
point of the building, such as eaves, steps, ramps, decks, porches and the
like.
         (a)   Front yard   25 feet minimum
         (b)   Side yard   5 feet minimum
         (c)   Rear yard      20 feet minimum
      (2)   Corner lots shall provide front yard setbacks on both street sides
unless the buildable area would be less than 30 feet, in which case the yard
requirements end at the 30 foot buildable area line.
      (3)   Accessory buildings of 160 square feet or less in size, not used as
a garage, and not on a permanent foundation shall observe a minimum setback of
five feet. Not more than two accessory buildings shall be permitted. The
accessory buildings, one or two, shall comply with the generally applicable
setback. Accessory buildings larger than 160 square feet in size shall observe
the same setbacks as would apply to the principal building. All accessory
buildings shall only be located on the side or rear yard.
      (4)   The minimum lot area for a two-family dwelling shall be 12,000
square feet; the minimum lot area for a three-family dwelling shall be 18,000
square feet; the minimum lot area for a multi-family dwelling (four-family
dwelling and above) shall be 24,000 square feet plus 6,000 square feet for each
additional family unit beyond four family. The preceding minimum applies to
lots connected to a conservancy district sewer system, otherwise, the minimum
lot area shall comply with the requirements of DeKalb County or Steuben County
wherever the lot or parcel shall be located.
      (5)   The minimum floor area shall be 800 square feet per family unit. By
way of illustration, the minimum floor area for a two-family area shall be
1,600 square feet, for a three-family unit shall be 2,400 square feet, for a
four-family unit shall be 3,200 square feet and so on.
      (6)   Minimum lot widths shall be measured at the building setback line,
also referred to as the front yard setback line. Minimum lot width: 80 feet.
      (7)   Maximum floor area ratio: 40%.
(‘88 Code, § 10-4-6) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 91-4, passed 1-6-92;
Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94; Am. Ord. 95-7, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 2002-04,
passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2004-06, passed 4-5-04; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 9-3-13)
§ 153.41 MOBILE HOME (R-4) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Mobile home park or subdivision, provided that the following
requirements are met.
         (a)   The park or subdivision, shall have permanent accommodations for
a minimum of five mobile homes.
         (b)   Each site must be provided with sewage and water and a concrete
mounting platform.
         (c)   Each site shall abut a driveway that meets all structural street
requirements of the subdivision regulations.
         (d)   No mobile home site shall have direct access to a public street.
   (B)   Special exceptions. Planned unit development, provided that all
standards set by the Plan Commission are met.
   (C)   Yard and building requirements for new mobile home parks.
      (1)   In calculating the size of yards and/or measuring to establish
setback lines, the measurement is to be taken from the furthest protruding
point of the building, such as eaves, steps, ramps, decks, porches and the
like.
         (a)   Front yard         10 feet
         (b)   Side yard         10 feet
         (c)   Rear yard         10 feet
      (2)   Accessory buildings of 160 square feet or less in size, not used as
a garage, and not on a permanent foundation shall observe a minimum setback of
five feet. Not more than two accessory buildings shall be permitted. The
accessory buildings, one or two, shall comply with the generally applicable
setback. Accessory buildings larger than 160 square feet in size shall observe
the same setbacks as would apply to the principal building. All accessory
buildings shall only be located on the side or rear yard.
      (3)   The minimum lot area shall be 5,000 square feet if connected to a
conservancy district sewer system; otherwise, the minimum lot area shall comply
with the requirements of DeKalb County or Steuben County, wherever the lot or
parcel shall be located.
      (4)   Minimum floor area: 500 square feet
      (5)   Minimum lot widths shall be measured at the building setback line,
also referred to as the front yard setback line. Minimum lot width: 50 feet
      (6)   Maximum floor area ratio: 40%.
   (D)   Special provisions. Dwellings in this district shall be exempt from
the provisions of §§
153.21(F) and (G).
   (E)   Seasonal campgrounds. The non-conforming seasonal campgrounds will be
permitted to operate beginning with April 1 and ending October 31 of each year.
      (1)   The town water supply will be shut off on November 1 and will not
be turned on until the following March 31.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum setback of five feet on all sides of the
mobile homes, manufactured homes, travel trailers, RVs and any other vehicles
that are located in a campground.
      (3)   The five-foot perimeter setback shall be measured from the farthest
protruding point of each structure which farthest protruding point shall be
measured with the slide out, extension of living space or the like, if any,
fully extended to its maximum length. If any mobile homes, manufactured homes,
travel trailers, RVs and any other vehicles contain slide outs, extensions of
living space, or the like, the owner or occupant of said mobile homes,
manufactured homes, travel trailers, RVs and any other vehicles shall fully
extend the slide outs, extensions of living space, or the like, for the town to
measure to determine compliance with this setback provision.
      (4)   The current number of spaces in each campground shall be determined
and properly documented by the town which shall establish and be the maximum
number of spaces permitted in each campgrouned.
(‘88 Code, § 10-4-7) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 91-4, passed 1-6-92;
Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94; Am. Ord. 95-7, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 2002-04,
passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 9-3-13; Am. Ord. 2019-1, passed 3-4-19)
§ 153.42 GENERAL BUSINESS (B-1) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted provided that all
storage and work is conducted inside of a principal or accessory building, no
outside storage is permitted.
      (1)   Retail stores;
      (2)   Restaurants and taverns as defined in §
153.04 of this chapter;
      (3)   Business and professional offices;
      (4)   Theaters;
      (5)   Churches, public parks, schools, libraries, cemeteries and other
public buildings, utilities and services.
      (6)   Dwelling units in the second story, rear portion of, or basement of
a principal building designed for use as a permitted use. Dwelling units may
not be located in the front ground floor portion of the building.
   (B)   Special exceptions.
      (1)   Service and repair establishments, including automotive service
stations and body shops.
      (2)   Any commercial use that requires product storage or work outside of
the principal or an accessory building.
      (3)   Any business conducting production and retail sale of goods on the
same premises.
      (4)   New single-family dwellings meeting all requirements of R-
1 District.
      (5)   Planned unit development, provided that all standards are met.
      (6)   Kennels and veterinary clinics. Kennels are defined as a place
primarily for keeping four or more animals, including, but not limited to,
dogs, cats, and other small animals that are ordinarily kept as pets.
      (7)   Mini-storage rental facilities for retail users.
      (8)   Storage facilities used and operated in conjunction with a marina.
   (C)   Yard and building requirements. In calculating the size of yards and/
or measuring to establish setback lines, the measurement is to be taken from
the furthest protruding point of the building, such as eaves, steps, ramps,
decks, porches and the like. No requirements unless the lot adjoins a
residential district, in which case the yard, side and/or rear adjoining the
residential district, shall meet the yard requirements of that district.
(‘88 Code, § 10-4-8) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 91-4, passed 1-6-92;
Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94; Am. Ord. 96-5, passed 12-2-96; Am. Ord. 2002-04,
passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 9-3-13)
§ 153.43 COMMERCIAL RECREATION (B-2) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Hotels and motels;
      (2)   Restaurants as defined in §
153.04;
      (3)   Commercial recreational uses (i.e. marina/boat rentals,
campgrounds, automobile dealers, golf cart dealers, etc.);
      (4)   Buildings and uses accessory to the above permitted uses; and
      (5)   Golf courses including pro shops.
   (B)   Special exceptions.
      (1)   Multi-family residences meeting all requirements of R-3 District;
      (2)   Retail stores;
      (3)   Planned unit development, provided that all standards set by the
Plan Commission are met; and
      (4)   Mobile home parks.
   (C)   Yard and building requirements.
      (1)   In calculating the size of yards and/or measuring to establish
setback lines, the measurement is to be taken from the furthest protruding
point of the building, such as eaves, steps, ramps, decks, porches and the
like. All residences shall conform to the requirement outlines for the R-
2 District.
      (2)   All commercial uses shall provide a minimum front, side and rear
yard setback of 20 feet.
(‘88 Code, § 10-4-9) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 96-5, passed 12-2-96; Am. Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2004-
06, passed 4-5-04; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 9-3-13)
§ 153.44 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL (I-1) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Light manufacturing;
      (2)   Warehousing and storage, enclosed storage of goods, materials and
equipment including trucks;
      (3)   Wholesaling of products on the premises;
      (4)   Adult cabarets provided that the use is also a minimum of 300 feet
from any A, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, B-1, or B-2 zoning district. The distance
between an adult cabaret and any A, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, B-1, or B-2 zoning
district shall be measured in a straight line, without regarding to intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure
used as the premises of the adult cabaret to the nearest boundary or lot line
of the A, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, B-1, or B-2 zoning district.
      (5)   Buildings, structures and uses accessory to the above.
   (B)   Special exceptions.
      (1)   Bulk fuel storage;
      (2)   Public parks but only to the extent to permit one walking and
biking trail prohibiting motorized vehicles and subject to other conditions and
restrictions as may be imposed by the Board of Zoning Appeals and one park not
to exceed 10.02 acres in size.
      (3)   Wireless communication facilities, but only if the following
requirements are met:
         (a)   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY shall mean any towers, poles,
antennas or other structures intended for use in connection with transmission
or receipt of radio or television signals, or any other spectrum-based
transmissions/receptions, excepting private, residential, non-commercial
structures not exceeding 60 feet in height.
         (b)   Before any new facility is approved, applicant shall be required
to show that no colocation opportunities are already available and that
applicant has conducted a complete inventory of existing structures, and that
the new facility is necessary in order to offer service.
         (c)   Towers, including all attachments, shall not exceed 199 feet in
height.
         (d)   The setback for a tower exceeding 60 feet in height from ground
level shall be the greater of 100% of the tower height.
         (e)   Applicant may be required to install a fence, at least eight
feet tall, surrounding each
facility. Advertising signs may be prohibited on the fences. There shall be a
sign on the fence with 24-hour emergency number.
         (f)   Applicant may be required to paint the facility so as to blend
in with the background.
         (g)   Dish antennas over six feet in diameter are prohibited.
         (h)   The planting of trees and/or shrubs may be required around the
entire facility in order to provide screening for a wireless communication
facility if such facility is adjacent to any real estate zoned R1, R2, or R3.
         (i)   Lighting not required by the FAA may be prohibited.
         (j)   Regular inspections to assure continued compliance with FCC
emission standards shall be required at applicant’s expense.
         (k)   At the applicant’s expense, the town may hire consultants for
any combination of the following reasons: to conduct an independent analysis on
the applicant’s proposal; to do a study of whether the applicant’s proposal
would meet all relevant requirements; to determine whether the antenna facility
as proposed would be necessary to provide wireless coverage and inspect
facilities to assure continued compliance with all relevant regulations.
         (l)   Applicants shall be required to provide copies of all records
relating to compliance with the Telecommunications Act, as well as other
federal laws, such as the National Environmental Policy Act. Applicants shall
be required to disclose all relevant federal documents and any communications
with the FCC or FAA. This full disclosure requirement shall be extended
throughout the lifetime of the facility.
         (m)   If the facility goes unused for a period of one year, then the
facility must be removed. The existence of a facility which has not been used
for a period of one year constitutes a nuisance. The owner or other responsible
party shall post a bond to cover the cost of removal as well as the cost of
landscape remediation. The removal of the facility includes removing at least
four feet of any subsurface foundation measured from the surface of the ground
at its lowest point in connection with the foundation. The excavation shall be
properly backfilled in lifts with proper material approved by the town.
         (n)   Each facility shall be fully automated. Vehicle access and on-
site parking, for all but maintenance vehicles, may be prohibited.
         (o)   Only one development plan shall be submitted per application,
which shall be amended only by approval of the Board once the hearings
commence; application shall have attached thereto a construction plan with
specifications of all material, construction drawings of the tower, all
anchors, cables and related structures, which plans and specifications shall
include a complete description of the proposed transmission tower, and the
location, color, style, and power of any warning lights affixed thereto.
   (C)   Yard and building requirements.
      (1)   In calculating the size of yards and/or measuring to establish
setback lines, the measurement is to be taken from the furthest protruding
point of the building, such as eaves, steps, ramps, decks, porches and the
like. When adjoining property is within an agricultural, commercial or
industrial district:
         (a)   Front yard         50 feet
         (b)   Side yard         50 feet
         (c)   Rear yard         50 feet
      (2)   Whenever the parcel adjoins any residential district:
         (a)   Front yard             100 feet
         (b)   Any yard which adjoins an R district            100 feet
      (3)   A parking area may not be located within 100 feet of an R district.
      (4)   A loading area may not be located within 200 feet of an R district
or in the front of any building. A loading area is not permitted in a location
or in such a configuration that enables or encourages vehicles to use public
thoroughfares for backing, parking or otherwise maneuvering to access the
loading area. Vehicles may temporarily park on a public thoroughfare while
waiting its turn to access the loading area.
      (5)   Upon development, industrial sites shall construct a buffer zone
around all sides of the site which zone may consist of one or more of the
following: earth mounds, tree plantings, hedges or decorative fences. In the
case of future rezoning, the types of buffer are to be designated by the Plan
Commission at the time of rezoning.
      (6)   Minimum lot size is five acres.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Any process or storage of significant amounts of toxic waste of
dangerous substances.
      (2)   Outside storage of any type.
      (3)   Any process which involves the generation of odor which escapes the
facility.
(‘88 Code, § 10-4-10) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 96-5, passed 12-2-
96; Am. Ord. 97-5, passed 7-7-97; Am. Ord. 98-8, passed 8-31-98; Am. Ord. 2000-
05, passed 8-28-00; Am. Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 9-
3-13)
§ 153.45 SELECT INDUSTRIAL (I-2) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Corporate administrative and institutional offices.
      (2)   Research, design and development laboratories and departments not
including any large scale manufacturing, or manufacture of products other than
prototypes and not involving the use of significant amounts of toxic wastes,
nor requiring the use of railroad or semi-tractor freight in the ordinary
course of their business, and using water and sewer primarily for personal
sanitation of employees.
      (3)   Commercial or industrial facilities engaged in the business of
designing, manufacturing, and sale of items such as computer software,
communication equipment, and other high technological pursuits not involving
any significant handling of toxic wastes, nor requiring the use of railroad or
semi-tractor freight in the ordinary course of their business, and using water
and sewer primarily for personal sanitation of employees.
      (4)   Professional offices.
      (5)   Data processing facilities, communication and computer networking
centers.
   (B)   Special exceptions.
      (1)   Uses ancillary to any permitted use, or a commercial use intended
primarily to serve a developed cluster of select industrial sites.
      (2)   Loading docks located in rear or appropriately camouflaged at any
facility constructed for a permitted use.
   (C)   Yard and building requirements.
      (1)   In calculating the size of yards and/or measuring to establish
setback lines, the measurement is to be taken from the furthest protruding
point of the building, such as eaves, steps, ramps, decks, porches and the
like. When adjoining property is within an agricultural, commercial or
industrial district:
         (a)   Front yard         50 feet
         (b)   Side yard         50 feet
         (c)   Rear Yard         50 feet
      (2)   In calculating the size of yards and/or measuring to establish
setback lines, the measurement is to be taken from the furthest protruding
point of the building, such as eaves, steps, ramps, decks, porches and the
like. Whenever the parcel adjoins any residential district:
         (a)   Front yard          100 feet
         (b)   Any yard which adjoins an R district   100 feet
      (3)   A parking area may not be located within 100 feet of an R district.
      (4)   A loading area or loading dock may not be located within 200 feet
of an R district, or in the front of any building. A loading area is not
permitted in a location or in such a configuration that enables or encourages
vehicles to use public thoroughfares for backing, parking or otherwise
maneuvering to access the loading area. Vehicles may temporarily park on a
public thoroughfare while waiting its turn to access the loading area.
      (5)   Upon development, industrial sites shall construct a buffer zone
around all sides of the site which zone may consist of one or more of the
following: earth mounds, tree plantings, hedges or decorative fences. In the
case of future rezoning, the types of buffer are to be designated by the Plan
Commission at the time of rezoning.
      (6)   Minimum lot size is three acres.
      (7)   Building exteriors visible from public highways or adjoining
residential areas must have brick, designer block, or a veneer compatible with
veneer appearances on residential dwellings. Loading docks, except by special
exception, are prohibited.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Any process which involves noise generation escaping the enclosed
facility, in excess of what would be normally associated with a secretarial
office.
      (2)   Any process or storage in significant amounts of toxic wastes or
dangerous substances.
      (3)   Outside storage of any type.
      (4)   Unlandscaped grounds.
      (5)   Any process which involves the generation of odor which escapes the
enclosed facility.
(‘88 Code, § 10-4-11) (Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94; Am. Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-1-
02; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 9-3-13)
§ 153.46 PARK MODEL HOME (R-5) DISTRICT.
   There shall be created the Park Model Home (R-5) District.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Park model home development, provided that the
following requirements are met:
      (1)   The development shall have permanent accommodations for a minimum
of five park model homes, four park model homes or less are not permitted.
      (2)   Each home site shall be provided with a concrete mounting platform/
slab and shall be connected to the Hamilton Lake Conservancy District sanitary
sewer system and the Town of Hamilton water system.
      (3)   Each home site shall include an off-street parking area providing
parking for a minimum of two full-sized vehicles, which parking area shall be
built to street development standards found otherwise in this chapter.
      (4)   No park model home shall have direct access to a public street, all
streets in a park model home development shall be private streets and
maintained by the developer and/or a homeowner's association.
      (5)   A buffer strip of not less than five feet shall be provided around
all sides of the community or subdivision. The buffer shall include decorative
fences, trees or decorative plantings as required by the Plan Commission.
      (6)   A storm water drainage plan must be submitted for Plan Commission
approval.
   (B)   Special exceptions. None permitted.
   (C)   Yard and building requirements.
      (1)   In calculating the size of yards and/or measuring to establish
setback lines, the measurement is to be taken from the furthest protruding
point of the building, such as eaves, steps, ramps, decks, porches or the like.
 
2019 S-19
   Zoning   94A
         (a)   Front yard:      10 feet.
         (b)   Side yard:      5 feet.
         (c)   Rear yard:      5 feet.
      (2)   The minimum lot area shall be 3,500 square feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot width: 50 feet. Minimum lot widths shall be measured at
the building setback line, also referred to as the front yard setback line.
      (4)   Maximum floor area for a park model home shall be 400 square feet.
      (5)   Overall exterior height shall not exceed 15 feet, 6 inches, when in
setup mode.
      (6)   A cabana may be constructed as an attachment to the park model home
but shall not exceed 240 square feet. A building permit shall be required for
cabana construction.
      (7)   One accessory building shall be allowed with a maximum size of 160
square feet and shall observe the same setbacks as would apply to the principal
building.
      (8)   Street construction shall meet minimum paving design and material
requirements as set forth in town regulations. Two-way streets shall be a
minimum of 18 feet wide and shall have a minimum turn radius of 60 feet for
emergency vehicle passage. One-way streets shall be a minimum of ten feet wide
with the same minimum turn radius.
   (D)   Subdivision platting procedure and development plan procedure. If the
developer of the mobile park home development proposes a subdivision of land as
otherwise defined in this chapter, the developer shall comply with the
subdivision regulations of the town, currently found at §§ 152.01 et seq. of
this Code. If the developer proposes that the land for development is to be
owned under single ownership, the developer must then comply with the
development plan provisions, currently found at § 153.75 of this chapter.
   (E)   The provisions of this section apply not only to park model homes but
also to tiny homes. Tiny homes are permitted provided that they comply with the
requirements of the R-5 Zoning District.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 12-4-17)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.55 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning Administrator
who shall be appointed by the Town Council.
(‘88 Code, § 10-2-1) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 153.56 TOWN PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is established a Town Plan Commission under the authority
provided in I.C. 36-7-4-201 et seq.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall consist of seven members, composed of three
persons in the municipal government, to be appointed by the Town Council, and
four citizen members to be appointed by the Town Council President, no more
than two of whom shall be members of the same political party.
   (C)   To be qualified for membership on the Town Plan Commission, each
citizen member:
      (1)   Must have knowledge and experience in matters pertaining to the
development in the municipality;
      (2)   May not hold any other office in the municipal government; and
      (3)   Must be a resident of the municipality.
   (D)   Additional representation should be provided for any unincorporated
jurisdictional area in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-214 et seq.
   (E)   (1)   Terms of office for members appointed from the Town Council
shall be coextensive with the member’s term of office on the Commission, unless
the Council appoints, at its first regular meeting in any year, another to
serve as representative.
      (2)   Citizen members shall have initial terms of office as follows:
         (a)   Two for a term of three years; and
         (b)   Two for a term of four years.
         (c)   Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of four years.
Each initial member’s term expires on the first day of January in the third or
fourth year, respectively, after the year of the member’s appointment.
      (3)   Vacancies among citizen members shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment for the unexpired term of the vacating member.
   (F)   The duties of the Town Plan Commission are all those that are
enumerated and provided in I.C. 36-7-4-401 et seq.
(‘88 Code, § 10-2-5) (Ord. 81-2, passed 2-2-84; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 153.57 TOWN BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-902, a Town Board of Zoning Appeals is created
and empowered with all authorities, responsibilities and duties as provided by
statute for advisory zoning; the membership of the Board to be five members as
set forth in the statute, and all actions pertaining to the zoning and
subdivision control ordinances as they affect land located within the corporate
boundaries of the town previously vested in the Steuben County Board of Zoning
Appeals are now exclusively vested in the Board.
   (B)   All authority, responsibilities, duties and actions required
previously to be held and taken by the Steuben County Plan Commission as they
affect the zoning and subdivision control ordinances of the town are
transferred and vested exclusively in the Town Plan Commission.
   (C)   All authority, responsibilities, duties and actions required
previously to be held and taken by the legislative bodies of Steuben County
with regards to the ordinances are transferred and exclusively vested in the
legislative body of the town, and all permits are to be issued by the director
as designated from time to time as by law provided.
   (D)   All actions of the aforesaid County Commissions, Boards, and Agents
insofar as they are in compliance with the law are ratified and confirmed.
(‘88 Code, § 10-2-6) (Ord. 81-7, passed 12-15-81; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 153.58 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to commence the excavation, construction, installation
or alteration of any building, including accessory buildings and outdoor
advertising structures, until the Administrator has issued an improvement
location permit to the person responsible for the improvement. Improvement
location permits are therefore required for the following:
      (1)   Construction of residential dwelling units;
      (2)   Alteration, modification, or additions to residential dwelling
units;
      (3)   Mini-barns or sheds regardless of size and regardless of fixture to
the ground;
      (4)   Other detached residential accessory buildings with foundations or
overhead structures;
      (5)   Detached and attached garages and carports;
      (6)   Swimming pools; inground and above ground;
      (7)   Decks and porches;
      (8)   Accessory ramps and stairs;
      (9)   Construction of commercial, industrial, multi-family, institutional
and all other buildings and structures;
      (10)   Alterations, modifications, or additions to commercial,
industrial, multi-family, institutional and all other buildings and structures;
      (11)   Structures other than buildings including satellites greater than
24 inches in diameter, towers, antennas and signs;
      (12)   Adding or subtracting dwelling units in multi-family or commercial
structures;
      (13)   Driveways that involve a new or expanded curb cut;
      (14)   A curb cut;
      (15)   Parking lot construction or expansion;
      (16)   Construction of or alterations to ponds or lakes;
      (17)   Telecommunication facilities;
      (18)   Mineral extraction;
      (19)   Any exterior construction that adds to or alters the height of the
existing structure;
      (20)   Any change of use or expansion of use of property;
      (21)   Any other structural changes as deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator;
      (22)   Outdoor masonry barbecue pits; and
      (23)   Landscaping enclosures that are more than two feet in height as
measured from grade and are constructed of bricks, blocks, railroad ties, and
other similar materials.
   (B)   The application for an improvement location permit shall be
accompanied by:
      (1)   A description of the proposed development and legal description of
the property site.
      (2)   A dimensional site plan drawn to scale showing existing and
proposed structure locations, north point, easements, water supply, sewage
system and road name.
      (3)   A plan, in accordance with the Storm Drainage and Erosion Control
Ordinance 96-3, which will contain surface water during construction.
      (4)   A plan, in accordance with the Storm Drainage and Erosion Control
Ordinance 96-3, which will control erosion during construction.
      (5)   A flood plain elevation certificate, if required by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   Applications for an improvement location permit not conforming with
the requirements set forth in division (B) above of this section shall not be
considered and will be returned to the applicant.
   (D)   (1)   Any person shall apply for an improvement location permit at the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The applicant shall submit to the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office a legal description and a scaled plot plan illustrating the location of
existing uses and proposed improvements. The applicant shall also state the
intended use of the building. If the application is in conformance with the
Hamilton Zoning Ordinances and other applicable ordinances, the Zoning
Administrator shall issue an improvement location permit. If the permit is
denied, the Zoning Administrator shall state in writing the reasons for the
denial. The Zoning Administrator shall grant or deny the permit within ten days
from the date the application was submitted.
      (2)   An application for an improvement location permit shall not be
approved until it has been ascertained by the Zoning Administrator that the
applicant is in compliance with the filing requirements for erosion control on
construction sites as provided by 327 I.A.C.15-5, as amended from time to time,
commonly called “Rule 5.”
   (E)   An improvement location permit shall become void one year after the
permit issuance unless significant progress has been made. It may be extended
upon request if circumstances warrant it.
(‘88 Code, § 10-2-2) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 91-4, passed 1-6-92;
Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94; Am. Ord. 98-8, passed 8-31-98; Am. Ord. 2003-13,
passed 10-6-03; Am. Ord. 2004-23, passed 12-6-04; Am. Ord. 2015-3, passed 11-2-
15)
§ 153.59 FEES.
   (A)   Fees pertaining to petitions for zoning amendments, permits, variances
and appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be set by the Town Council.
The fees shall be collected by the Zoning Administrator or the Clerk-Treasurer
and shall assist in defraying the cost of zoning administration.
   (B)   (1)   Each application for an improvement location permit for a
principal structure shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $0.05 per
square foot of the enclosed portion of a principal structure, with a minimum
fee of $50.
      (2)   Each application for an improvement location permit for an
accessory building or accessory structure shall be accompanied by a fee in the
amount of $0.03 per square foot of the enclosed portion of the accessory
building or structure, with a minimum fee of $50.
      (3)   Each application for an improvement location permit for an
improvement, modification, or alteration to an existing principal building,
accessory building or accessory structure shall be accompanied by a fee in the
amount of $0.03 per square foot of the enclosed portion of the improvement,
modification or alteration to the existing principal building, accessory
building or accessory structure, with a minimum fee of $50.
      (4)   Each application for an improvement location permit for a multi-
family dwelling, in addition to the fees required by divisions (B)(1) or (B)
(2), shall be accompanied by a fee of $50 for each family dwelling in the
multi-family dwelling (for example, $100 for a two-family dwelling, $150 for a
three-family dwelling, and the like).
      (5)   Each application for an improvement location permit for a driveway
in connection with a residential structure shall be accompanied by a fee of
$50.
      (6)   Each application for an improvement location permit for a driveway
in connection with a non-residential structure shall be accompanied by a fee of
$100.
      (7)   Each application for an improvement location permit for a sign
shall be accompanied by a fee of $50 plus all costs for relocating any
municipal or public utilities.
   (C)   (1)   An additional fee of $750 shall accompany every application for
an improvement location permit submitted to the Zoning Administrator after
construction of the improvement has begun.
      (2)   An additional fee of $100 shall accompany every application for a
sign after erection of the sign has begun.
   (D)   An application fee of $300 shall accompany each request for a special
exception, variance, appeal, petition for easement closure or administrative
division. In addition, the applicant shall pay the cost of advertising for any
required public hearing and recording fees to record the final action of the
Board of Zoning Appeals or Plan Commission or approval of an administrative
division.
   (E)   A subdivision preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a fee in the
amount of $500 plus $50 for each lot in the proposed subdivision to assist in
defraying the costs of reviewing and acting upon the proposed plat. For an
exempt subdivision, the fee shall be $300 plus $50 for each lot in the proposed
subdivision. In addition, the applicant shall reimburse the town in connection
with the plat approval process.
   (F)   A development plan submitted pursuant to §§
153.75 through
153.84 shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $200 plus $20 for each
dwelling unit in the proposed planned development to assist in defraying the
costs of reviewing and acting upon the proposal. The additional fee of $20 is
for each dwelling unit, not for each additional structure; for example, a
duplex is to be counted as two dwelling units. In addition, the applicant shall
reimburse the town for engineer's fees and attorney's fees incurred by the town
in connection with the development plan process.
   (G)   Each application to the Town Council or Plan Commission for an
amendment to the text of the Zoning Ordinance and/or an amendment to the Zoning
Map (change in zoning) shall be accompanied by a fee of $500 plus $20 per acre,
or any portion thereof, for the acreage involved in the request for change in
the Zoning Map.
(‘88 Code, § 10-2-3) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. passed 5-4-87; Am.
Ord. 95-7, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-1- 02; Am. Ord. 2004-06,
passed 4-5-04; Am. Ord. 2004-22, passed 11-1-04; Am. Ord. 2011-7, passed 12-29-
11; Am. Ord. 2018-3, passed 7-2-18; Am. Ord. 04-2023, passed 7-7-23)
§ 153.60 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Amending procedure. The Town Council may amend, supplements or change
the regulations and districts pursuant to this chapter, or a petition duly
signed may be presented to the Zoning
Administrator requesting an amendment, supplement or change of the regulations
of this chapter by the Plan Commission or by a private petitioner. (‘88 Code, §
10-7-1)
   (B)   Petition. The Town Council, the Plan Commission or owners of at least
50% of the area involved in a petition may apply for an amendment to the zoning
chapter and/or zoning map. All petitions for amendment by a private party shall
be accompanied by a fee to be established by the Town Council. (‘88 Code, § 10-
7-2)
   (C)   Public hearing.
      (1)   A public hearing shall be held by the Plan Commission before the
adoption of any proposed amendment supplement or change. At least ten days
prior to the date set for the hearing, the Commission shall publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city or county a notice of the time and
place of the hearing.
      (2)   Notice shall contain an exact legal description of the location for
which the amendment is sought and a statement of the proposed zoning change or
subdivision proposal.
      (3)   Notify property owners, groups and organizations as it deems
desirable, including but not limited to the petitioner and all owners of the
property affected and property immediately adjoining.
(‘88 Code, § 10-7-3)
   (D)   Amending zoning ordinance. Any proposed ordinance amending the zoning
ordinance, not originating from the Plan Commission, shall be referred to the
Plan Commission for consideration before any final action is taken by the Town
Council. In the event the report of the Plan Commission is adverse to a
proposed ordinance referred to them, the ordinance shall not be passed except
by a two-thirds affirmative vote of the Town Council. (‘88 Code, § 10-7-4)
   (E)   Lack of action on unfavorable report. Failure of the Town Council to
pass the proposed ordinance by the affirmative vote within 90 days after its
rejection by the Plan Commission shall constitute a rejection of the proposed
ordinance, and the petition shall not be reconsidered by the Plan Commission or
Town Council until the expiration of one year after the date of its original
rejection by the Plan Commission. (‘88 Code, § 10-7-5)
   (F)   Lack of action on favorable report. A zoning ordinance amendment that
has been recommended favorably by the Plan Commission, and certified to the
Town Council, must receive action by the Town Council within 120 days after
certification, or it shall become effective as if passed by the Council. (‘88
Code, § 10-7-6)
(Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
§ 153.61 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Suit for injunction. The Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals,
the Zoning Administrator, or any designated enforcement official, or any person
or persons, firm or corporation jointly or severely aggrieved, may institute a
suit for injunction in the Circuit Court of Steuben County, Indiana to restrain
an individual or a governmental unit from violating the provisions of the
ordinance. The Plan Commission or the Board of Zoning Appeals may also
institute suit for mandatory injunction directing an individual, a corporation,
or a governmental unit to remove a structure erected in violation of any
provision of this chapter or the requirements thereof is declared to be a
common nuisance and as such may be abated under existing law.
   (B)   Remedies. In proceeding to enforce an ordinance, a violation must be
proven by a preponderance of the factual evidence and the administrative body
may not impose a penalty other than a fine, not to exceed $2,500 in aggregate,
for an ordinance violation.
      (1)   The Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals or the Zoning
Administrator may, by securing a mandatory injunction in the Circuit Court of
the County, require the removal of a structure erected in violation of this
chapter.
      (2)   A use that violates any provision of this chapter is declared to be
a common nuisance and as such may be abated under existing law.
      (3)   When the Zoning Administrator determines that reasonable grounds to
believe that a violation of any provision of this chapter or of any rule or
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, he shall give notice of such violation to
the person or persons responsible. Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a list of violations found;
         (c)   Allow reasonable time for correction of the violations found;
and
         (d)   Be served upon the owner or his/her agent, or the occupant as
the case may require. Such notice shall be deemed properly served if a copy is
served upon him/her personally or if a copy is
sent by registered mail to his/her last known address, or if service is
effected by a method authorized under the laws of the state.
      (4)   Should violations not be remedied within the time allowed, the
Zoning Administrator may use a stop work order to halt further progress until
the violations are remedied.
      (5)   If construction or placement of any structure or building, mobile
home, etc., which requires a permit has begun without a permit, a stop work
order shall be placed on the construction and not be removed or covered until a
proper permit is issued.
      (6)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1014(f), if the Plan Commission or
any designated enforcement official is successful in an action brought to
enforce this chapter, the respondent shall bear the cost of the action.
      (7)   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Zoning Administrator
or his duly authorized representative may enter at reasonable times any
property in the town and its jurisdictional areas, to perform any duty imposed
upon him or any function necessary, for the enforcement of this chapter.
(‘88 Code, § 10-2-4) (Ord. 82-4, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94;
Am. Ord. 98-8, passed 8-31-98)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
§ 153.75 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   Established for all Zoning Districts. As prescribed by I.C. 36-7-4-1401.5,
the Hamilton Town Council hereby designates that a development plan shall be
required for all proposed developments, larger than one acre in size, that do
not involve the subdivision of land, in all zoning districts established in §
153.35, and which are illustrated on the Town of Hamilton, Indiana Zoning Map.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 10-4-04; Am. Ord. 2007-01, passed 2-5-07)
§ 153.76 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The land proposed for development must be owned under single
ownership, or be owned either:
      (1)   Jointly by the owners of all property included in the development
(including the holder of any written option; or
      (2)   By any governmental agency.
   (B)   A planned development may contain residential, commercial, industrial,
professional, or special uses as an integral part of the development.
   (C)   The proposed development must be designed to produce an environment of
stable and desirable character capable of supporting the proposed use of the
property. It must include provisions for drainage, parking, utilities and
ingress-egress adequate for the occupancy proposed or otherwise in compliance
with this subchapter.
   (D)   Division of land. Any development plan proposal that includes the
subdivision of land into platted lots will be considered a “non-residential
subdivision” by the Town of Hamilton and will be submitted under, and reviewed
according to, the requirements of the Town of Hamilton, Indiana Subdivision
Ordinance (
Chapter 152).
   (E)   A development plan proposal that may contain a proposed later division
of the land into separate units under one ownership or into one or more
separately owned and operated units, and that will be described by metes and
bounds measurement, shall be clearly designated on the plan by both text and
drawing.
   (F)   If approved with a development plan, such a proposed division maybe
made without further approval by the Commission. Later divisions of land within
an approved plan may otherwise be made only upon reapplication to the
Commission for approval of a revised development plan and resubmission to the
Commission.
   (G)   No improvement location permit or certificate of occupancy may be
issued unless all requirements, conditions, and specifications shown on the
development plan, as approved by the Commission, and supporting documents have
been met.
   (H)   Upon the abandonment of a planned development, or upon the expiration
of a one-year period after authorization during which a development has not
been initiated, then the authorization expires. The Zoning Administrator shall
then send a notice to the applicant that the approval has expired, unless the
Commission has granted an extension of time, which extension shall be
considered only upon written application of the developer.
   (I)   Political and jurisdiction boundaries.  To eliminate potential
jurisdictional disputes, and to ease effective coordination and planning of
development, the Commission shall be guided by the following policy.
      (1)   Whenever access to the development is required across land within
another local government jurisdiction, the Commission shall request assurance
from the attorney for said jurisdiction that such access is legally
established, and from the designated engineer for said jurisdiction that the
access road is adequately improved, or that a performance bond has been duly
executed and is sufficient in an amount to assure construction of the access
road.
      (2)   Parcel lines within a development shall be laid out to not cross
boundary lines between adjacent units of local government, each of which has a
separate, autonomous governing body.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 10-4-04)
§ 153.77 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The documents to be submitted are intended to provide the
Commission with sufficient information and data to assure compliance with all
applicable codes and specifications, and to ensure that the proposed
development meets the design and improvements standards contained in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Requirements. The documents to be submitted with an application are
listed below. In specific cases, and for documented reasons, the Commission may
waive, by rule in a public hearing, the submission of a particular document.
The reasons for the waiver shall be shown in the Commission minutes. The
Commission’s ability to waive specific application documents under this section
does not extend to waiving other requirements of this subchapter, nor can the
Commission grant variances from the requirements of the Hamilton Zoning
Regulations. Use and development variances for items proposed in a development
plant are granted by the Hamilton Board of Zoning Appeals under §
153.05.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 10-4-04)
§ 153.78 CONTENTS AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Location map. The applicant shall provide a location map illustrating
the following information:
      (1)   Development name and location;
      (2)   Thoroughfares related to the development;
      (3)   Existing elementary and high schools, parks, playgrounds and other
community facilities within the area of the proposed development that may serve
the development; and
      (4)   Title, scale, northpoint and date.
   (B)   Development plan - required contents.
      (1)   The applicant shall provide a development plan illustrating the
following items:
         (a)   Major streets and highways serving the plan area;
         (b)   School and recreation sites serving the plat area;
         (c)   Shopping centers serving the plan area;
         (d)   Water, sanitary sewer and drainage facilities serving the plan
area;
         (e)   Community facilities serving the plan area; and
         (f)   Other developments within the vicinity of the plan.
      (2)   These items shall be illustrated on a development plan prepared by
a registered land surveyor or engineer illustrating the following:
         (a)   The proposed name of the development;
         (b)   The names and addresses of the owner(s) and registered land
surveyor and engineer;
         (c)   Commission’s certificate regarding deed of dedication;
         (d)   1.   All streets and rights-of-way, on and adjoining the site of
the proposed development, showing the names, roadway widths, approximate
gradients, types and widths of pavement, curbs, sidewalks, crosswalks, tree
planting and other pertinent data;
            2.   New streets proposed as part of a development plan shall not
duplicate the names of existing streets with Hamilton, unless an existing
street will be extended. All proposed street names are subject to Commission
approval;
         (e)   Easements, including locations, widths and purposes;
         (f)   A statement concerning the location, depth and approximate size
or capacity of all utilities to be installed within the proposed development;
         (g)   The layout of lots, showing the dimensions, number designation
and square footage for each lot;
         (h)   Any parcels of land the developer proposes to dedicate or
reserve for schools, parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or
community purposes;
         (i)   Contours at vertical intervals of two feet, if the slope of the
site is less than 10%, and at vertical intervals of five feet if the general
slope is 10% or greater;
         (j)   A Drainage Plan, including narrative and illustrations,
indicating how the plan will be drained, how stormwater runoff will be
detained, how detained runoff will be out flowed, and where runoff will be
outflowed;
         (k)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings and angles,
which are referenced to known landlines or benchmarks;
         (l)   Building setback lines;
         (m)   Legend and notes;
         (n)   Other features or conditions;
         (o)   Scale, northpoint and data;
         (p)   1.   Construction plans illustrating the location of all
sanitary sewers, storm sewers and water mains within the development plan;
their elevations, inverts, and all relevant notes; street cross-sections,
gradients and paving notes; sanitary tap locations, manhole details, bedding
details, inlet details, backfill requirements, and any other information
required by the Commission. The developer shall also provide any permits or
approvals required from other state, county or local government agencies; or
private utility companies for driveway cuts, drainage into a county regulated
drain, use of an existing easement, etc.;
            2.   A development plan shall be drawn to a scale of 50 feet to one
inch, or 100 feet to one inch. However, if the resulting drawing would be over
36 inches in shortest dimension, a different scale recommended by the
Commission may be used;
            3.   The Commission may require additional information on a
development plan if it deems necessary.
   (C)   Certifications. The applicant shall certify on the development plan
that access to the land proposed for development will be provided over either
existing public streets, or over streets to be constructed by the applicant.
The applicant shall also certify that the proposed development will not be
constructed if the Plan Commission finds that the land proposed for development
is unsuitable for such use because of flooding, improper drainage,
objectionable earth and rock formations, topography, or any other feature
harmful to the health and safety of the community as a whole.
   (D)   Covenants. A description of the protective covenants or private
restrictions to be incorporated in the development plan (if applicable).
   (E)   Development name. The proposed name of the development shall not
duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other
development, subdivision or manufactured housing park within the town. The
Commission shall reserve final authority to designate the name of the
development at the time of approval.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 10-4-04)
§ 153.79 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   To expedite plan and application review, ensure that a proposed plan
complies with the provisions of this subchapter, and to reduce design and
development costs, a preapplication conference shall be held between Town of
Hamilton officials and the developer and his/her representatives. The
Commission will not hold a public hearing regarding a development plan until
such a conference occurs.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 10-4-04)
§ 153.80 PLAN SUBMITTAL AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   The developer shall submit five copies of all required plans, maps and
data to the Plan Commission office at least 42 days prior to a regularly-
scheduled Commission meeting date. The Commission staff, and other relevant
town officials shall review the plan and provide written comment to the
developer, noting any required changes or modifications as follows:
      (1)   A plan shall be routed and reviewed by the following town
departments and/or officials:
         (a)   Superintendent of Water Utilities;
         (b)   Superintendent of Streets;
         (c)   Town (consulting) Engineer;
         (d)   Town Marshal;
         (e)   Fire Chief;
         (f)   Zoning Administrator;
         (g)   Superintendent of Hamilton Lake Conservancy District;
         (h)   AEP; and
         (i)   Any other town official or interested party determined by the
Commission.
      (2)   The above officials shall, after reviewing a plan, note their
comments and sign off on a plan review provided by the Commission.
   (B)   (1)   Upon completion of the plan routing process, and the pre-
application conference required by this subchapter, the Commission staff shall
set a hearing date after completing a written review of the plan. A hearing
notice shall be published according to I.C. 5-3-1. The publication cost shall
be borne by the applicant.
      (2)   The applicant staff shall also identify affected property owners in
the area of the proposed plan. The applicant shall send hearing notices to all
identified property owners by certified mail and bear the postage cost.
      (3)   The Commission staff shall notify any governmental unit having a
probable interest in the proposed plan application of the hearing date.
   (C)   (1)   The Commission shall then hold a public hearing to review the
plan. The Commission shall review and consider all comments on the plan
provided during the routing process by town officials.
      (2)   The developer, and/or his/her designated representative, shall be
present at the hearing to present the plan, and to answer any questions the
Commission or staff may have regarding the plan that arise from the routing
process or during the hearing.
      (3)   The Commission shall hear all oral and written comments regarding
the plan that may be offered from adjoining property owners, and other
interested parties, according to the rules established in the Commission’s
Rules of Procedures.
      (4)   The Commission may advise the applicant of any desired changes in
the plan before it grants plan approval. The Commission may also place
conditions upon a plan. Such conditions must be satisfied before a plan is
submitted to the Commission for review and approval.
   (D)   (1)   The Commission shall, by rule, refer the infrastructure
construction plans for a plan to the Town Council for review. The Town Council
may issue any conditions regarding possible liability of the developer for any
damages caused to existing public infrastructure during construction.
      (2)   An applicant whose submitted plan has been disapproved by the
Commission, as provided in this ordinance, may not submit another plan for the
same property for a period of one year after the date of signed findings for
said disapproval.
   (E)   Following approval of the plan by the Plan Commission, and the
construction plans by the Town Council, the developer may begin installation of
the infrastructure improvements.
   (F)   I.C. 36-7-4-1405, the Commission shall review a development plan to
determine if the development plan:
      (1)   Is consistent with the comprehensive plan; and
      (2)   Satisfies the development requirements specified in the zoning
ordinance.
   (G)   The Plan Commission may do the following:
      (1)   Impose conditions on the approval of a development plan if the
conditions are reasonably necessary to satisfy the development requirements
specified in the zoning ordinance for approval of the development plan;
      (2)   Provide that approval of a development plan is conditioned on the
furnishing to the plan commission of a bond or written assurance that:
         (a)   Guarantees the timely completion of a proposed public
improvement in the proposed development; and
         (b)   Is satisfactory to the Plan Commission.
      (3)   Permit or require the owner of real property to make a written
commitment under section I.C. 36-7-4-1015.
   (H)   Approval by the Commission is good for a one-year period immediately
following approval, unless all parts of the development have been planned and
recorded or unless the Commission has granted an extension of time.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 10-4-04)
§ 153.81 COVENANTS.
   When required by the Commission, covenants must include at least the
following provisions satisfactory to the Commission:
   (A)   Adequate provision for an organization with direct responsibility to,
and control by, the property owners involved to provide for the operation and
maintenance of any common facilities jointly shared by those owners.
   (B)   A financial guarantee:
      (1)   That satisfactory maintenance will be provided for any common
facilities in accordance with standards prescribed by the property owners’
organization and set forth in the covenants; and
      (2)   That the facilities will be operated and maintained at no expense
to the town or any other governmental unit.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 10-4-04)
§ 153.82 PRIVATE STREETS.
   (A)   Private street rights-of-way and pavements in a planned development
shall be constructed in conformance with minimum street specifications
prescribed by Chapter 152 except as otherwise recommended by the Commission to
the Town Council (as a part of the development plan and construction plans) and
approved by the Town Council. Exceptions must take account of the street
circulation system shown in the development plan.
   (B)   At or near the entrance of each private street on a dedicated public
street, the applicant or the private organization shall maintain a signpost
carrying a sign, having an area of at least 15 inches by 21 inches, on which is
printed and clearly legible in at least two-inch letters the name of the
private street and the words “PRIVATE STREET” and, in at least one-inch
letters, the words, “NOT DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE OR MAINTAINED BY THE PUBLIC.”
The material on the sign shall be arranged substantially as follows:
(NAME OF STREET)
PRIVATE STREET
NOT DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE
OR MAINTAINED BY THE PUBLIC
   (C)   Private streets shall be maintained by the owners of contiguous or
adjacent property, or by the private organization, so that fire, police,
health, or sanitation vehicles and public utility vehicles have adequate access
to contiguous or adjacent properties. Adequate access includes an adequate
turning area.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 10-4-04)
§ 153.83 INSPECTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Inspections of the installation of infrastructure within, or serving,
a development plan shall be documented by completing the “Testing /
Documentation Requirements for New Infrastructure” form provided by the
Hamilton Planning Department. Inspections and testing shall be conducted
according to the requirements of this form. A town-authorized inspector shall
be present when infrastructure is tested. The Town Council will not accept
infrastructure proposed for dedication to the town, until said form is properly
completed.
   (B)   The town shall designate the Town Engineer, or his or her
representative, to inspect the installation and testing of infrastructure
within a development plan. The developer, or his authorized contractor, shall
notify the town when installation of said infrastructure is complete and
testing is to commence. The developer shall pay for the cost of inspections
according to a payment fee schedule approved by the Hamilton Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 10-4-04)
§ 153.84 STANDARDS OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   As provided by I.C. 36-7-4-1403(d), the requirements of §§
152.35 through
152.40 are incorporated and referenced herein as being the standards by which
development plans shall be reviewed by the Commission.
   (B)   Non-residential developments.
      (1)   A nonresidential plan shall be subject to all the plan content and
approval processes prescribed by this subchapter.
      (2)   Standards.  The applicant shall display that the proposed street-
block-lot-parcel pattern of the nonresidential subdivision is specifically
adapted to its anticipated uses, and considers other uses in the vicinity. The
following principles and standards shall be observed:
         (a)   Each nonresidential area or parcel shall be shown and marked on
the plan as to its intended purpose. Proposals for incremental lot-by-lot
development shall also be noted.
         (b)   Proposed parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions to the
types of anticipated development.
         (c)   The Commission may impose special requirements on street, curb,
driveway and sidewalk design and construction.
         (d)   Street rights-of-way and pavement construction shall handle the
type and volume of anticipated traffic.
         (e)   The Commission may impose special requirements on the
installation of public utilities, including water mains, sanitary sewer mains
and storm water drainage, the reprocessing of sewage and the storage and
disposal of toxic materials. The Commission shall, by rule, refer the
infrastructure construction plans for a non-residential development plan to the
Town Council for review. The Council may issue any conditions regarding
possible liability of the developer for any damages caused to existing public
infrastructure during construction.
         (f)   The Commission may impose special requirements to protect
adjacent residential areas from any potential nuisance caused by a
nonresidential subdivision, including the provision of extra depth on parcels
backing onto existing or potential residential areas, and for permanent
landscape buffers when necessary.
         (h)   Non-residential development plans shall include a drainage plan.
Such plan shall be approved in advance by the Dekalb County Drainage Board or
Steuben county Drainage Board, as the case may be, if a regulated drain is
affected by the proposed development.
   (C)   Residential Development Plan. A residential development plan shall be
subject to all the plan content requirements and approval processes prescribed
by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 10-4-04)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   All persons, firms, or corporations violating any provisions of
Chapters 152 or
153 shall be deemed guilty of a violation of said chapter, and shall be fined
in accordance herewith and upon conviction shall be fined in accordance with
this chapter. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (A)   No improvement location permit - up to 50% of the receipted
construction costs incurred at the time the violation is discovered or up to
50% of the appraised value of the improvements.
   (B)   No certificate of compliance - $75 per day while violation continues
or until a permit is issued.
   (C)   No sign permit - $75 per day while violation continues or until
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)    A violation of §
153.23 is punishable by a fine of $50 per violation. Each day a violation
continues shall be considered a separate violation.
   (E)   All other violations of
Chapter 153 - $75 per day from the date of written notification by the Zoning
Administrator until violation ceases.
   (F)   For violations of
Chapter 152 - $500 per day.
(Ord. 98-8, passed 8-31-98; Am. Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2017-4,
passed 9-5-17)
CHAPTER 154: PLANNING
Section
   
154.01   Comprehensive plan adopted by reference
   
154.02   Storm drainage and erosion control ordinance adopted by reference
§ 154.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Plan adopted by the town in Ordinance 94-2, 4-4-94, is
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code, the same as if set
forth in full. Copies of the Comprehensive Plan are available for public
inspection in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 94-2, passed 4-4-94)
Cross-reference:
   Town Plan Commission, see §
153.56
§ 154.02 STORM DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Storm Drainage and Erosion Control Ordinance is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full.
Copies of the Storm Drainage and Erosion Control Ordinance are available for
public inspection in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 11-4-96)
Cross-reference:
   Flood Hazard Prevention, see
Chapter 151
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Chapter
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
IV.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
89-10    10-16-89    Annexation of territory zoned lake residential and served
                     by town utility systems.
92-2     3-2-92      Amending the language of Ordinance 89-10.
94-3     7-22-94     Annexation of territory near Circle Park Road contiguous
                     to the town.
2002-03  8-5-02      Annexation of territory near Hamilton Lake Highlands
                     contiguous to the town.
                     Annexation of territory near Catalpa Lane and Walnut
2003-04  8-4-03      Street (County Road 300 East) in Hamilton Lake Highlands
                     contiguous to the town.
2003-05  7-7-03      Annexation of territory near the Public Boat Ramp Parcel
                     and Circle Park Road contiguous to the town.
2004-25  1-3-05      Annexation of territory contiguous to the town known as
                     the Hamilton Lake Properties LLC.
05-2023  9-5-23      Annexation of territory contiguous to the town known as
                     the Municipal Water Utility Parcel.
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Extending the expiration date of the cable television
97-7     10-6-97     system franchise agreement with Triax Midwest Associates,
                     L.P., to March 31, 1998.
                     Extending the expiration date of the cable television
98-2     4-21-98     system franchise agreement with Triax Midwest Associates,
                     L.P., to May 4, 1998.
98-5     7-1-98      Granting cable television system franchise agreement to
                     Triax Midwest Associates, L.P., for a term of five years.
                    
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
95-9     12-26-95    Incorporating amendment for land to be zoned an R-
                     3 District for multi-family purposes.
                     Giving the zoning classification R-1 to a tract of land
99-5     10-4-99     described as a part of the east half of Section 33,
                     Township 36 North, Range 14 East, Otsego Township, Steuben
                     County, Indiana.
2000-10  10-2-00     Rezoning a part of the north one-half of Section 3,
                     Township 35 North, Range 14 East, from I-1 to R-1.
                     Rezoning a part of the northeast quarter of the southeast
2001-02  1-29-01     quarter of Section 33, Township 36 North, Range 14 East,
                     from B-1 General Business to R-3 Multi-Family Residential.
                     Rezoning a part of the east half of the southeast quarter
2001-04  6-4-01      of Section 33, Township 36 North, Range 14 East, from B-
                     1 General Business to R-3 Multi-Family Residential.
                     Giving the zoning classification A to (1) Lots 9 and 10 in
                     Squier Addition; (2) a tract of land described as part of
2003-01  3-3-03      the North half of Section 3, Township 35 North, Range 14
                     East, Franklin Township, DeKalb County, Indiana; and, (3)
                     a triangular tract of ground owned by Kevin and Kathleen
                     Martin east of and adjacent to (1) and (2) above.
                     Rezoning a part of the west half of Section 27, Township
2004-15  8-2-04      36 North, Range 14 East (Otsego Civil Township) as R-
                     3 Multi-Family Residential.
2006-08  7-3-06      Zoning the Gary and Jan Myers property as B-2 Commercial
                     Recreational.
                     Zoning a parcel of land located in the northeast one-
2006-12  8-7-06      quarter of Section 4 and the northwest one-quarter of
                     Section 3, Township 35 North, Range 14 East as B-1 General
                     Business.
2006-19  12-28-06    Giving the zoning classification R-3 to a tract of land
                     described as lot numbered 198 in Crystal Cove.
2007-03  4-2-07      Zoning lots numbered 4, 5 and 6 in Block 3 of the original
                     plat of the town as B-1 General Business.
                     Zoning a parcel of land located at 805 S. Wayne Street,
2010-03  6-7-10      owned by J.E. Bireley and R.L. Koeppe, as R-3 Multi-Family
                     Residential.
                     Zoning lots numbered 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 12 in Block 12 of
2010-05  8-2-10      the original plat of the town, owned by G.K.B.
                     Enterprises, L.L.C., as B-1 General Business.
2013-5   2-4-13      Amending Ordinance 2004-15 to remove restriction on the
                     sale of the condominium units to citizens age 55 or older.
                     Rezoning a certain 2.0 acre tract of land located at 7100
08-2023  11-6-23     S. State Road 1, owned by Justin and Hester Stouder, from
                     B-2 to A.
                    
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating a platted 15-foot alley between Waters Street and
2003-14  9-2-03      Dock Street located in the Valley Park of Oakwood Place
                     (also known as the Oakwood Park subdivision)
                     Vacating a ten foot alley located immediately east and
2015-1   5-4-15      adjacent to the east line of Lot Number One in Forest Park
                     Beach First Addition
2016-3   8-1-16      Vacating a portion of Lane 221BA located in the Penn Park
                     Addition to the town
2016-5   9-6-16      Vacating a ten foot easement on the plat of Foundation
                     Park First Addition to the town
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1988 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section           Code Section
1-1-1-5                10.04
1-1-1-7                10.12
1-1-1-8                10.06
1-1-4-5                10.05
1-1-5-1                10.11
1-1-6-1                10.08
1-1-7-1                93.19
4-21.5-3-7             150.95
5-3-1                  94.02,
                       153.80
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.     30.06
6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.   34.03
6-1.1-12.1-1           34.03
6-1.1-12.1-3           34.03
6-1.1-12.1-45          34.03
6-1.1-17               34.18
6-5-5-8                31.40
8-14-1-1(4)            34.13
8-14-1-1(7)            34.13
8-14-1-5               34.13
8-14-2-4 et seq.       34.15
itle 9                 70.01
9-1-2-1 et seq.        74.02
9-18.1-14-11           70.07
9-21-1-2               Ch. 70
9-21-1-3               Ch. 70
9-21-9                 70.06
9-21-16-5              71.01,
                       71.02
9-22-1-1 et seq.       Ch. 74
9-22-1-15 - 9-22-1-18  74.18
9-22-1-30              74.15
14-8-2-5.7             70.07
14-8-2-185             70.07
14-16-1 et seq.        70.07
14-16-1-20(c)          70.07
14-28-1                151.44
14-28-1-26             151.44
14-28-4                151.01
14-33-1 et seq.        32.05
14-33-1-1              32.05
14-33-2-7              32.05
22-9-1-4 et seq.       92.02
22-9-9.5-8             92.03
22-9.5-1 et seq.       Ch. 92,
                       92.01
22-9.5-1-2             92.02
22-9.5-2-10            92.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.       92.08
22-9.5-5               92.02
22-9.5-5-1             92.03
22-9.5-5-8             92.03
22-9.5-6               92.02,
                       92.09
22-11-4-8(a)           96.01
22-11-14-10.5          Ch. 96
22-12                  150.95
22-12-1-4              150.03
22-12-1-5              150.03
22-12-1-6              150.03
22-12-1-7              150.03
22-12-1-14             150.03
22-12-1-16             150.03
22-12-1-17             150.03
22-12-1-18             150.03
22-12-1-22(b)(12)      150.71
22-12-1-24             150.03
22-12-1-26             150.03
22-12-7                150.05
22-13                  150.95
22-13-2-3(b)           150.70
22-13-2-6              150.04
22-13-2-7              150.95
22-13-2-7(b)           150.70
22-13-2-9              150.04
22-13-2-11             150.05
22-14                  150.95
22-15                  150.95
22-15-3                150.46
22-15-4                150.04
32-25-2-9              150.03
                       132.01,
34-1-52-1              132.02,
                       132.06,
                       132.08
34-1-52-2(b)           132.02
35-47-2-3              34.14
36-1-3-2               34.02
36-1-3-8(a)(5)         110.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)        10.99,
                       70.99
                       33.03,
36-1-5-4               150.70,
                       150.71
36-1-6-4               150.94
36-1-6-9               71.12,
                       150.95
36-1-7-1 et seq.       32.03
36-1-8-5.1             34.18
36-1-20.2              33.03
36-1-21                33.03
36-4-6-13 et seq.      30.08
36-4-6-14              30.10
36-4-6-17              30.10
36-5-1-9.4             30.04
36-5-1-10.1            30.02
                       10.15,
36-5-2-2               30.01,
                       30.03
36-5-2-4.1             30.02
36-5-2-7               30.03
36-5-2-8               31.11
36-5-2-9               30.05
36-5-2-9.2             30.04
36-5-2-9.4             33.03
36-5-2-10              30.10
36-5-2-10.2            30.10
                       30.01,
36-5-3-2               31.12,
                       31.25
36-5-4-11              110.04
36-5-4-12              34.01
36-5-6-2               31.11
36-5-6-3               31.10
36-5-6-4               31.10
36-5-6-5               31.11
36-5-6-6               31.11
36-5-6-6(b)(8)         110.04
36-5-6-7               31.13
36-5-7-2               31.25
36-5-7-3               31.25
36-5-7-4               31.26
36-5-7-6               31.27
36-7-3-1 et seq.       152.06,
                       Ch. 152, Appendix. A, § 1
36-7-4                 151.01
36-7-4-201 et seq.     153.56
36-7-4-214 et seq.     153.56
36-7-4-401 et seq.     153.56
36-7-4-700 et seq.     Ch. 152
36-7-4-708             152.76
36-7-4-902             153.57
36-7-4-1014(f)         153.61
36-7-4-1015            153.80
36-7-4-1401.5          153.75
36-7-4-1405            153.80
36-7-9-1 et seq.       150.32,
                       150.33
36-7-9-2               150.27
36-7-9-7               150.30
36-7-9-25              132.01
36-7-12-1 et seq.      32.01
36-7-12-1 - 36-7-12-38 32.01
36-7-14 et seq.        32.06
36-7-14-6.1            32.06
36-8-2-2               32.04,
                       Ch. 93
36-8-2-4               Ch. 93
36-8-2-8               Ch. 93
36-8-2-9               Ch. 112
36-8-3-10              110.03
36-8-3-20              32.04
36-8-12-1 et seq.      32.03
36-8-14                34.10
36-8-17                150.56
36-9-2-14              51.01
36-9-2-15              51.01
36-9-2-16              51.01
36-9-2-17              51.01
36-9-15.5-1 et seq.    34.10
36-9-16-1 - 36-9-16-6  34.11
36-9-16-2              34.10
36-9-16-3              34.10
36-9-16-5              34.10
36-9-17                34.10
36-9-26                34.10
36-9-27-100            34.10
36-10-2-2              Ch. 91
36-10-3-1 et seq.      Ch. 91
36-10-3-21             34.10
36-10-4-36             34.10
36-10-5-2              32.08
                       
 
REFERENCES TO 1988 CODE
1988 Code Section 1999 Code Section
1988 Code Section 1999 Code Section
1-1-10            11.01
2-1-1             31.10
2-1-2             31.11
2-1-3             31.12
2-1-4             31.13
2-2-1             31.25
2-2-2             31.26
2-2-3             31.27
2-2-4             31.28,
                  32.04
2-3-1             32.03
2-3-2             32.03
2-4-1             32.01
2-4-3             32.02
2-6-2             34.11
2-6-3             34.12
2-6-5             34.13
2-6-7             34.14
2-6-9             34.15
2-7-1             34.02
3-1-1             30.01
3-1-2             30.02
3-1-3             30.03
3-1-4             30.04
3-1-5             30.05
3-1-6             30.06
3-1-7             30.07
3-1-8             30.08
3-1-9             30.09
3-1-10            30.10
3-1-11            30.01
3-1-12            30.11,
                  Ch. 30, Appendix
4-1-1             110.01
4-1-2             110.02
4-1-3             110.02
4-1-4             110.03
4-1-5             110.04
4-2-1             111.01
4-2-2             112.01
4-3-1             30.12
4-4-1             34.03
5-1-1             91.01
6-1-2             32.04
8-1-1             70.01
8-1-2             71.02
8-1-3             Ch. 73, Sch. II
8-1-4             Ch. 72, Sch. I
8-1-6             Ch. 73, Sch. I
8-1-7             71.01,
                  Ch. 73, Sch. I
8-1-8             71.03
8-1-9             71.04
8-1-10            Ch. 73, Sch. II
8-1-11            71.05
8-1-13            71.06
8-1-15            Ch. 72, Sch. II
8-1-16            Ch. 73, Sch. II
8-1-17            Ch. 72, Sch. III
8-2-1             70.02
8-2-6             70.03
8-2-7             70.04
9-1-1             51.01
9-2-1             51.15
10-1-1            153.01
10-1-2            153.02
10-1-3            153.03
10-1-4            153.04
10-2-1            153.55
10-2-2            153.58
10-2-3            153.59
10-2-4            153.61
10-2-5            153.56
10-2-6            153.57
10-3-1            153.15
10-3-2            153.16
10-3-3            153.17
10-3-4            153.18
10-3-5            153.19
10-3-6            153.21
10-4-1            153.35
10-4-2            153.36
10-4-3            153.37
10-4-4            153.38
10-4-5            153.39
10-4-6            153.40
10-4-7            153.41
10-4-8            153.42
10-4-9            153.43
10-4-10           153.44
10-4-11           153.45
10-7-1            153.60
10-7-2            153.60
10-7-3            153.60
10-7-4            153.60
10-7-5            153.60
10-7-6            153.60
10-8-1            153.05
10-9-1            152.01
10-9-2            152.02
10-9-3            152.03
10-9-4            152.04
10-9-5            152.05
10-9-6            152.06
10-9-7            152.07
10-10-1           152.70
10-10-2           152.71
10-10-3           152.72
10-10-4           152.73
10-10-5           152.74
10-11-1           152.20
10-11-2           152.21
10-11-3           152.22
10-11-4           152.23
10-11-5           152.24
10-11-6           152.25,
                  Ch. 152, Appendix
10-12-1           152.35
10-12-2           152.36
10-12-3           152.37
10-12-4           152.38
10-12-5           152.39
10-12-6           152.40
10-13-1           152.50
10-13-2           152.51
10-13-3           152.52
10-13-4           152.53
10-13-5           152.54
10-13-6           152.55
10-13-7           152.56
10-13-8           152.57
10-13-9           152.58
10-14-1           152.75
10-15-1           152.76
10-15-5           152.77
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
82-2     5-3-82      32.02
2009-03  5-6-09      34.17
2014-5   6-2-14      153.15
2016-3   6-6-16      153.15
2017-2   4-30-17     94.45
2017-3   7-3-17      94.45
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
5        - -         111.01
—      4-12-15     30.08
—      4-13-15     11.01
—      4-17-15     30.07
14       7-13-18     70.02,
                     70.03
                     71.01,
                     71.03 -
64-1     6-12-64     71.05,
                     Ch. 73, Schs. I,
                     II
102      7-26-65     34.11
67-1     5-1-67      71.06;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. II
75-1     2-10-75     32.03
78-3     9-11-78     51.15
80-1     4-7-80      32.01
80-5     7-7-80      32.04
80-2     10-6-80     31.28
80-3     10-6-80     71.02,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. II
81-5     - -81       Ch. 73, Sch. I
81-7     12-15-81    153.57
                     153.01 -
                     153.03,
                     153.05,
                     153.16 -
                     153.19,
82-4     4-26-82     153.21,
                     153.35 -
                     153.44,
                     153.55,
                     153.58 -
                     153.61
                     152.01 -
                     152.04,
                     152.06,
                     152.07,
                     152.20 -
                     152.25,
82-5     4-26-82     152.35 -
                     152.40,
                     152.50 -
                     152.58,
                     152.70 -
                     152.77,
                     Ch. 152, Appendix
82-5     8-2-82      34.12
81-2     2-2-84      153.56
—      5-4-87      153.59
88-2     2-1-88      Ch. 72, Sch. III
88-3     2-1-88      Ch. 73, Sch. II
88-5     5-2-88      153.01 -
                     153.04
88-7     11-6-88     150.99
89-3     5-1-89      70.03,
                     70.05
89-4     7-3-89      51.02
89-5     7-3-89      Ch. 73, Sch. I
89-9     8-7-89      71.07
89-10    10-16-89    T.S.O. I
90-5     7-2-90      30.01
90-6     7-2-90      30.02
90-9     12-3-90     51.07,
                     51.99
91-1     4-1-91      33.01
                     91.01 -
91-3-1   12-2-91     91.05,
                     91.99
                     153.19,
                     153.21,
91-4     1-6-92      153.40 -
                     153.42,
                     153.58
91-5     1-6-92      51.15
92-2     3-2-92      T.S.O. I
92-3     6-1-92      Ch. 72, Sch. IV;
                     Ch. 73, Sch. II
92-4     6-1-92      33.01
93-2     3-1-93      30.02
93-1     4-5-93      51.04
                     91.99,
93-4     8-30-93     92.02 -
                     92.11
93-6     11-1-93     34.01
93-5     12-20-93    33.01
                     152.01 -
                     152.07,
                     152.20 -
                     152.25,
                     152.35 -
                     152.40,
                     152.50 -
                     152.58,
                     152.70 -
                     152.77,
                     Ch. 152, Appendix,
94-2     4-4-94      153.01 -
                     153.05,
                     153.16 -
                     153.19,
                     153.21,
                     153.35 -
                     153.43,
                     153.45,
                     153.55 -
                     153.58,
                     153.60,
                     153.61,
                     154.01
94-3     7-22-94     T.S.O. I
94-4     - -94       30.01
95-2     5-8-95      31.01
95-5     7-3-95      33.02
95-6     12-26-95    31.29
                     153.20,
95-7     12-26-95    153.38 -
                     153.41,
                     153.59
95-8     12-26-95    153.22
95-9     12-26-95    T.S.O. III
96-1     5-6-96      Ch. 72, Sch. I
96-3     11-4-96     154.02
96-4     11-4-96     50.01 -
                     50.06
                     153.04,
96-5     12-2-96     153.42 -
                     153.44
97-1     3-3-97      51.03
97-5     7-7-97      153.44
97-6     10-6-97     34.10
97-7     10-6-97     T.S.O. II
98-3     4-20-98     51.15
98-2     4-21-98     T.S.O. II
98-5     7-1-98      T.S.O. II
98-6     8-3-98      130.01
                     152.06,
                     152.07,
                     153.04,
                     153.21,
98-8     8-31-98     153.38,
                     153.39,
                     153.44,
                     153.58,
                     153.61,
                     153.99
98-11    12-7-98     94.01 -
                     94.04
98-12    1-18-99     50.06
99-5     10-4-99     T.S.O. III
2000-01  2-7-00      Adopting Ordinance
                     50.07,
2000-02  8-7-00      51.17,
                     Ch 51, Appendix
2000-03  8-7-00      150.17,
                     Ch. 150, Appendix
2000-05  8-28-00     153.44
2000-06  8-28-00     153.37
2000-07  8-7-00      71.08 -
                     71.12
                     74.01 -
                     74.06,
2000-08  8-7-00      74.10 -
                     74.18,
                     74.99,
                     Ch. 74, Appendix
2000-09  8-7-00      50.06
2000-10  10-2-00     T.S.O. III
                     131.01 -
2000-11  11-6-00     131.05,
                     131.99
2000-12  11-6-00     153.04
2001-01  1-2-01      Adopting Ordinance
2001-02  1-29-01     T.S.O. III
2001-04  6-4-01      T.S.O. III
2002-01  4-15-02     91.06,
                     91.99
2002-02  2-4-02      Adopting Ordinance
2002-03  8-5-02      T.S.O. I
                     152.06,
                     152.20,
                     152.21,
                     152.37,
2002-04  7-1-02      152.53,
                     152.54,
                     153.38 -
                     153.45,
                     153.59,
                     153.99
                     150.25 -
2002-05  7-1-02      150.34,
                     Appendix
2002-07  8-5-02      93.01 -
                     93.04
2002-08  8-5-02      71.10
2002-11  10-7-02     30.02
2002-12  10-7-02     51.15
2002-13  10-21-02    51.03 -
                     51.05
2002-14  10-21-02    50.07,
                     51.17
2002-15  11-4-02     153.20
2002-16  1-6-03      153.04
2002-17  11-4-02     153.21
2002-18  12-2-02     153.21
                     94.25 -
2002-19  1-6-03      94.32,
                     94.99
2002-22  1-6-03      153.15
2003-01  3-3-03      T.S.O. III
2003-02  4-7-03      Ch. 72, Sch. I
2003-03  5-5-03      93.01,
                     153.21
2003-04  8-4-03      T.S.O. I
2003-05  7-7-03      T.S.O. I
2003-07  6-2-03      32.05
2003-08  6-2-03      93.03,
                     93.04
                     132.01 -
2003-10  9-2-03      132.09,
                     132.99
                     90.01-
                     90.07,
2003-11  11-3-03     90.09 -
                     90.12,
                     90.99
2003-12  10-6-03     153.39
2003-14  9-2-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-15  9-15-03     33.01
2003-17  11-3-03     Ch. 73, Sch. III
2003-18  11-3-03     Ch. 73, Sch. II
2003-19  12-1-03     71.12
2003-20  12-22-03    31.40
2004-02  5-3-04      71.071
2004-03  3-1-04      71.072
2004-04  3-1-04      153.21
2004-05  3-1-04      51.04
                     153.38 -
2004-06  4-5-04      153.40,
                     153.43,
                     153.59
2004-07  4-5-04      Adopting Ordinance
2004-08  5-3-04      51.06
2004-08A 5-3-04      51.06
2004-09  6-7-04      51.15
2004-11  7-6-04      95.01,
                     95.99
2004-12  8-2-04      153.39
2004-14  8-2-04      153.04
2004-15  8-2-04      T.S.O. III
2004-16  8-2-04      Ch. 72, Sch. I
2004-17  8-2-04      Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2004-19  10-4-04     153.21
2004-20  10-4-04     153.75 -
                     153.84
2004-21  12-27-04    34.04
2004-22  11-1-04     153.59
2004-23  12-6-04     153.58
2004-24  12-6-04     153.21
2004-25  1-3-05      T.S.O. I
2005-01  2-7-05      Adopting Ordinance
2005-02  7-11-05     32.06
                     150.01 -
                     150.05,
                     150.45 -
                     150.48,
                     150.55,
2005-03  6-6-05      150.56,
                     150.70,
                     150.71,
                     150.90 -
                     150.95,
                     150.99
2005-04  10-3-05     153.04
2005-07  12-5-05     50.06
2005-08  12-5-05     51.15
2006-01  2-6-06      51.15
2006-06  6-19-06     71.01
2006-07  6-19-06     153.21
2006-08  7-3-06      T.S.O. III
2006-09  7-3-06      51.06
2006-11  9-11-06     153.21
2006-12  8-7-06      T.S.O. III
2006-15  11-6-06     34.16
2006-17  12-28-06    50.06
2006-19  12-28-06    T.S.O. III
2007-01  2-5-07      153.75
2007-02  3-5-07      30.06
2007-03  4-2-07      T.S.O. III
2007-04  5-7-07      153.15
2007-05  5-7-07      30.08
2007-06  5-7-07      Adopting Ordinance
                     96.01 -
2007-08  11-5-07     96.03,
                     96.99
2008-01  1-7-08      30.06
2008-02  2-4-08      34.05
2009-02  12-30-09    33.01
2009-3   7-26-12     153.12
2010-01  4-19-10     32.07
2010-02  4-19-10     32.06
2010-03  6-7-10      T.S.O. III
2010-04  6-7-10      93.04
2010-05  8-2-10      T.S.O. III
2010-10  12-6-10     51.15
2010-11  12-6-10     50.06
2010-12  12-6-10     30.08
2011-1   3-7-11      153.16
2011-2   6-6-11      Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2011-3   9-22-11     93.04
                     153.15,
2011-7   12-29-11    153.22,
                     153.59
2012-1   3-5-12      153.39
2012-2   7-13-12     33.03
2012-4   9-4-12      Ch. 72, Sch. I and
                     Sch. III
                     93.15 -
2012-5   9-4-12      93.22,
                     93.99
2012-8   12-21-12    30.02
2013-1   3-4-13      71.08 -
                     71.12
2013-2   4-1-13      34.03
2013-3   3-4-13      153.21
                     50.04,
                     50.06,
                     50.07,
2013-4   4-1-13      51.08,
                     51.15,
                     51.16,
                     51.99
2013-5   2-4-13      T.S.O. III
2013-6   6-3-13      111.01
2013-7   9-3-13      Ch. 72, Sch. III
2013-8   9-3-13      153.38 -
                     153.45
                     151.01 -
                     151.05,
                     151.10 -
                     151.18,
                     151.30 -
2013-10  10-7-13     151.32,
                     151.40 -
                     151.47,
                     151.60 -
                     151.66,
                     151.99
2013-11  12-2-13     Ch. 72, Sch. I
– –  12-23-13    151.11
2013-12  2-3-14      32.08
2014-1   4-7-14      34.06
2014-2   5-5-14      152.08
2014-4   10-6-14     50.06
2014-6   11-3-14     71.072
2014-7   11-3-14     90.13
2015-1   5-4-15      T.S.O. IV
2015-2   9-8-15      51.15
2015-3   11-2-15     153.04,
                     153.58
2015-5   11-2-15     50.07
2015-6   11-2-15     51.15
2016-1   6-6-16      51.09
2016-2   10-3-16     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2016-3   8-1-16      T.S.O. IV
2016-4   9-6-16      153.04
2016-5   9-6-16      T.S.O. IV
2016-8   9-26-16     90.13
2017-1   2-6-17      152.37
2017-4   9-5-17      153.23,
                     153.99
2018-1   12-4-17     153.46
                     70.06,
2018-2   3-5-18      70.07,
                     70.99
2018-3   7-2-18      153.59
2018-4   9-4-18      71.07
2018-6   10-1-18     31.29
2018-7   12-3-18     50.06
2019-1   3-4-19      153.41
2019-2   3-4-19      153.18
2019-3   3-4-19      34.13
2020-3   12-7-20     153.04
2021-1   5-3-21      51.15
2021-2   5-3-21      50.07
2021-3   4-5-21      153.21
2022-3   10-10-22    130.02
2022-4   9-6-22      153.04
03-2023  7-7-23      34.18
04-2023  7-7-23      153.59
05-2023  9-5-23      T.S.O. I
                     91.01 -
07-2023  9-5-23   91.06,
                     91.99
08-2023  11-6-23     T.S.O. III
                    
 
