HANOVER, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-15, passed 11-6-2024
State legislation current through 2024 A.L.S. #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
 
ORDINANCE 2020-6
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF HANOVER, JEFFERSON
COUNTY, INDIANA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF HANOVER DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Hanover
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the Town of Hanover to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance book form; and
WHEREAS, the Hanover Town Council of the Town of Hanover has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of
Hanover of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in
book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
May 6, 2020.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF HANOVER,
INDIANA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Hanover as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Hanover."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   TOWN OF HANOVER, INDIANA
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
      Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
               10.   General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
               30.   Town Council
               31.   Town Organization
               32.   Police
               33.   Town Policies
               34.   Finances
               35.   Ordinance Violation Bureau
               36.   Personnel Policy and Procedures
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
               50.   Trash and Recyclables
               51.   Water
               52.   Sewer
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
               70.   Recreational Vehicles
               71.   Traffic Schedules
               72.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
               90.   Animals
               91.   Nuisances
               92.   Public Places
               93.   Fair Housing
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
               110.   Business Permits
               111.   Sexually Oriented Businesses
               112.   Cable Television
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
               130.   General Offenses
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
               150.   Building Codes
               151.   Subdivisions
               152.   Sewer Construction
               153.   Stormwater Master Plan
               154.   Flood Hazard Areas
               155.   Zoning
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
               I.   Agreements
               II.   Franchises
               III.   Property Transfers
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Indiana Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and preordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
o money, authorizing the purchase of sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Hanover Town Council and the Hanover Clerk-Treasurer is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulation therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the Town of Hanover, and shall take effect at the earliest
dated provided by law.
DULY PASSED AND ADOPTED this 6th of May, 2020 by the Town Council of the Town
of Hanover, Jefferson County, Indiana, having been passed by a vote of 5 in
favor and 0 opposed.
YES   NO
_X__   ____                              /s/ Debbie Kroger
                                    Debbie Kroger, President
_X__   ____                              /s/ Kenneth Garrett
                                    Kenneth Garrett, Councilmember
_X__   ____                              /s/ Treva Shelton
                                    Treva Shelton, Councilmember
_X__   ____                              /s/ Kathi Scroggins
                                    Kathi Scroggins, Councilmember
_X__   ____                              /s/ Denise Buxton
                                    Denise Buxton, Councilmember
Attest:
/s/ Keith Mefford
Keith Mefford, Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town
Code”, for which designation “Code of Ordinances”, “Codified Ordinances”, or
“Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Jefferson County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Hanover, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) of
this section does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATION
      
32.   POLICE
      
33.   TOWN POLICIES
      
34.   FINANCES
      
35.   ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU
      
36.   PERSONNEL POLICY AND PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Council districts
   
30.02   Council meetings
   
30.03   Rules of procedure
   
30.04   Number of members
   
30.05   Council member terms
   
30.06   [Reserved]
   
30.07   Disclosure requirement
   
30.08   Council to act as Park Authority
§ 30.01 COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall be divided into three Council member districts
designated and defined as follows.
         (a)   First district. Beginning at a point formed by the north
corporate limits and the centerline of State Road 56 and 62; thence generally
south with the centerline of said State Road 56 and 62 to its intersection with
Madison Avenue; thence generally south with the centerline of Madison Avenue to
its intersection with Main Street; thence generally east with the centerline of
Main Street to its intersection with Madison Avenue; thence generally south
with the centerline of Madison Avenue to the point where Madison Avenue
intersects First Street; thence continuing south to the south corporate limits
of said town; thence generally east, north, east, north, east, north, west,
north and west with the corporate limits of said town to the point of
beginning.
         (b)   Second district. Commencing at the northwest corner of the First
District and continuing generally south with the west line of said district to
the south line of the corporate limits; thence with the corporate limits west,
south, and west to the center of Main Cross Street; thence north with the
centerline of Main Cross Street to its intersection with Third Street; thence
west with the centerline of Third Street to its intersection with West Street;
thence north with the centerline of West Street to its intersection with Crowe
Street; thence west with the centerline of Crowe Street across State Road 56
and 62 to Greenbrier Road; thence generally west, northwest with the centerline
of Greenbrier Road to its intersection with the corporate limits, said point
being just west of October Street; thence north, then east with the corporate
limits to the place of beginning.
         (c)   Third district. Beginning at the intersection of the centerline
of Greenbrier Road with the north corporate limits, said point being just
northwesterly of Janie Lane; thence generally south with the west line of the
second district to the south corporate limits; thence with the corporate limits
west, north, west, north, east, north, east to the place of beginning.
      (2)   The updated district boundaries are set out in Map B, which is
attached to Ordinance 2022-18, and incorporated herein by reference as if set
out in full.
   (B)   (1)   The voters of all districts shall elect a resident from each
district to be the Town Council member representing that district.
      (2)   The voters of all districts together shall elect two additional at
large Town Council members who may be a resident of any district of the town.
The two candidates receiving the most votes in a general election for the
office of Town Council member at large shall be elected to this position.
(Ord. 1992-21, passed 12-29-1992; Ord. 2012-21, passed 12-27-2012; Ord. 2022-
18, passed 12-6-2022; Ord. 2024-7, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 30.02 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Town Council meetings shall be conducted according to the following
procedures.
   (A)   Date and time of regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Town
Council shall be held at 6:00 p.m. on the first and third Tuesdays of each
month at the town Municipal Building located at 200 Spruce Lane, Hanover, IN
47243. The date, time and location may be changed by the Town Council, so long
as the notification complies with the state’s Open Door Law.
   (B)   Meetings. Throughout the year, the Council will hold and conduct
regular meetings, executive meetings, administrative meetings, and special
meetings, as needed. All meetings will be conducted according to the state’s
Open Door Law, being I.C. 5-14-1.5 et seq.
   (C)   Quorum. A majority of Council members.
   (D)   Parliamentary procedure. All elected Council members including the
presiding officer shall participate in debate and discussion on matters before
the Council and shall vote on all matters before the Council. Robert’s Rules of
Order will be used as guidelines in conducting meetings.
   (E)   Usual order of business. The usual order of business for Town Council
meetings shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Review minutes of previous meeting;
      (3)   Audience call;
         (a)   Speakers time may be limited at the discretion of the President;
         (b)   Speakers will be asked not to repeat the position of previous
speakers; and
         (c)   Speakers will state their name and address when they commence
their remarks to the Council;
      (4)   Report from committees, officers, and department heads;
      (5)   Old business;
      (6)   New business;
      (7)   Accounts payable vouchers;
      (8)   Announcements; and
      (9)   Adjournment.
   (F)   Agenda. An agenda will be prepared by the Clerk-Treasurer under the
direction of the presiding officer prior to each meeting. Any person who wishes
to be placed on the agenda shall give notice to the Clerk-Treasurer by Thursday
(prior to the Tuesday meeting) and shall indicate the subject to be presented.
Deviations to the public agenda may be necessary on occasions as determined by
the presiding officer.
   (G)   Suspending the rules. These rules of procedure can only be changed by
motion duly made, seconded and passed by a two-thirds majority of the Council.
   (H)   Minutes. Draft of minutes will be available within five working days
after meetings.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 1-3-2000; Ord. 2023-12, passed 5- -2023)
§ 30.03 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Town Council of the Town of Hanover shall conduct all business in
compliance with I.C. 36-5-2-7 through 36-5-2-13. All matters of procedure not
covered by the proceeding sections shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order
(current edition).
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 1-2-2019; Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-7-2020; Ord. 2021-1,
passed 1-5-2021; Ord. 2022- 1, passed 1-4-2022; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-3-2023;
Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-2-2024)
§ 30.04 NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Number of Council members.
      (1)   The number of Council members shall be five and be composed of the
following: existing Council seats from district one, district two, and district
three.
      (2)   Each Council Member must be a resident of the district he or she
represents and is voted on by the town as a whole. The three district
boundaries shall be as presently prescribed by ordinance of the town or as
hereinafter amended. New Council seats include: at large one - the whole of
town; and at large two - the whole of town.
   (B)   Selection of Council members.
      (1)   The Council seats of district one, district two, and district three
shall be filled by the individuals receiving the winning vote total from the
November 4, 2003 ballot for each existing Council seat. Additionally, it is
understood that due to §
30.05, a section adopting staggered terms for Council members, that:
         (a)   The two individuals receiving the highest vote totals in the
balloting for at large one and at large two of the Town Council shall be
elected to serve an initial three-year term on the Town Council beginning at
noon on January 1, 2004;
         (b)   The individuals receiving winning vote totals in the balloting
for districts one, two, and three of the Town Council shall be elected to serve
a four-year term on the Town Council beginning at noon on January 1, 2004.
Districts one, two, and three shall be as presently or hereinafter comprised
under ordinances of the town; and
         (c)   All successors to the Council members elected on November 4,
2003 shall be elected to serve terms of four years.
      (2)   The new Council seats, at large one and at large two, shall be
filled by the members of the Council at a regular or special meeting. The Town
Council may fill the vacancies before this section takes effect.
         (a)   The individuals appointed to the Council seats of at large one
and at large two shall serve a one-year term, beginning January 1, 2003 and
until their successors are elected and sworn in.
         (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall give notice of the meeting to fill the
vacancies, which shall be held in the time frame dictated by I.C. 3-13-9-4.
         (c)   The notice must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   State the purpose of the meeting;
            3.   State the date, time, and place of the meeting; and
            4.   Be sent by first class mail to each Council member at least
ten days before the meeting.
(Ord. 2002-17, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 30.05 COUNCIL MEMBER TERMS.
   (A)   In the municipal elections to be held on November 4, 2003:
      (1)   The two individuals receiving the highest vote totals in the
balloting for members at large of the Town Council shall be elected to serve an
initial three-year term on the Town Council beginning at noon on January 1,
2004; and
      (2)   The individuals receiving the winning vote totals in the balloting
for districts one, two, and three of the Town Council shall each be elected to
serve a four-year term on the Town Council beginning at noon on January 1,
2004.
   (B)   All successors to the Council members elected on November 4, 2003
shall be elected and serve terms of four years.
(Ord. 2002-18, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 30.06 [RESERVED].
§ 30.07 DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. A Town Council member or the Clerk-Treasurer.
      RELATIVE. 
         (a)   Any of the following:
            1.   Spouse;
            2.   Parent or step parent;
            3.   A child or step child;
            4.   Brother, sister, step brother, or step sister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (b)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual. The terms “brother” and “sister” shall include a brother or
sister by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Application to certain contracts. The town may enter into a contract
or renew a contract for the procurement of goods and services or a contract for
public works with an individual who is a relative of an elected official or a
business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a relative of an elected
official only if disclosure requirements under this section are satisfied.
Contracts in existence at the time the term of office of the elected official
begins are not affected until those contracts are renewed.
   (C)   Disclosure of contracts with relatives.
      (1)   An elected official whose relative enters into a contract with the
town shall file a full disclosure of that contract.
      (2)   Disclosure statement must be in writing, describe the contract or
purchase to be made by the town, describe the relationship that the elected
official has to the individual or business entity that contracts or purchases,
and be affirmed under penalty of perjury.
      (3)   Disclosure statements must be submitted to the Town Council and be
accepted by the Town Council in a public meeting prior to final action on the
contract or purchase.
      (4)   Disclosure statements must be filed not later than 15 days after
final action on the contract or purchase with the State Board of Accounts, and
the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Actions by Town Council or appropriate agency. The Town Council or an
appropriate agency of the town designated by the Town Council shall make a
certified statement that the contract amount or purchase price was the lowest
amount or price bid or offered or make a certified statement of the reasons why
the vendor or contractor was selected.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the town. Each elected official
of the town subject to this resolution shall annually certify in writing,
subject to the penalties for perjury, that the official has not violated this
section. An elected official shall submit the certification to the Town Council
not later than December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 2012-02B, passed 6-5-2012)
§ 30.08 COUNCIL TO ACT AS PARK AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Town Council, as the municipal legislative body, is hereby
constituted and designated the town’s Park Authority, pursuant to I.C. 36-10-5-
2, thereby assuming all rights, authority, responsibilities, obligations, and
powers vested in that authority below.
   (B)   The Park Authority is successor in interest to the Department of Parks
and Recreation, and the Board of Parks and Recreation, and any property
previously in the possession, control, or ownership of the Department of Parks
and Recreation shall be vested in the town’s Park Authority, including all non-
reverting funds which shall retain their character as non-reverting funds
pursuant to I.C. 36-10-5-2.
   (C)   The town’s Park Authority shall assume all rights, responsibilities,
and obligations of the Department of Parks and Recreation previously incurred.
   (D)   The town’s Park Authority shall have all powers and authority as
prescribed and permitted by state law.
(Ord. 2001-5, passed 8-21-2001; Ord. 2005-1, passed 2-21-2005)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATION
Section
   
31.01   Elections
   
31.02   Public Video Service Board
   
31.03   Animal Shelter Advisory Board
   
31.04   Department of Economic Development
   
31.05   Clerk-Treasurer, Deputy Clerk and Utility Clerk
   
31.06   Town Plan Commission
   
31.07   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
31.08   Cable Advisory Board
§ 31.01 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   It would be in the best interest of the town to provide for town
elections to occur during an election year so that town elections will occur
during even-numbered general election years when elections for federal, state,
and other local offices occur.
   (B)   It will save the town money in election expenses to hold its elections
during an even-numbered general election year since, pursuant to I.C. 3-5-3-11,
when a town election coincides with a general election the County Election
Board may not assess the town for the cost of the town’s election.
   (C)   Town Council members and the Clerk-Treasurer elected to office in the
November election in 2019, or holding over in office following the 2019
municipal election under Article 15, Section 3 of the Constitution of the State
of Indiana, shall serve a term of three years.
   (D)   After 2019, the Town Council members and the Clerk-Treasurer shall
next stand for election in 2022.
   (E)   The Town Council members and Clerk-Treasurer elected in 2022 shall
serve a four-year term and each subsequent Town Council member and Clerk-
Treasurer elected thereafter shall serve a four-year term as provided by law.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a signed copy of this section to the
County Circuit Court Clerk and shall request the Clerk to include a copy of
this section in the records of the County Election Board. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall also ask the County Circuit Court Clerk to return a file-marked copy
showing it has been filed with the Circuit Court Clerk and the Clerk-Treasurer
shall place the file-marked copy with the permanent records of the town.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 31.02 PUBLIC VIDEO SERVICE BOARD.
   This Public Video Service Board was dissolved by the government units.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 2-16-2009; Ord. 2023-12, passed 5- -2023)
§ 31.03 ANIMAL SHELTER ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The purpose of this interlocal agreement shall be to provide for the
establishment of a Madison-Jefferson County Animal Shelter Advisory Board to
advise both the County of Jefferson and the City of Madison and the Town of
Hanover on matters relating thereto and this agreement shall be for an
indefinite term, unless sooner terminated as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   A separate legal entity shall be established called the Madison-
Jefferson County Animal Shelter Advisory Board with seven members appointed as
follows:
      (1)   Two members shall be appointed by the Jefferson County Board of
Commissioners; one of which must be a member of the Board of Directors of the
Madison-Jefferson County Humane Society. That member shall abstain from voting
with respect to any decision the Animal Shelter Advisory Board might make
concerning or involving the Madison-Jefferson County Humane Society;
      (2)   One member shall be appointed by the Mayor of Madison;
      (3)   One member shall be appointed by the Jefferson County Council;
      (4)   One member shall be appointed by the Madison City Council;
      (5)   One member shall be appointed by the County Health Officer of
Jefferson County, preferably a veterinarian; and
      (6)   One member shall be appointed by the Hanover Town Council.
   (C)   (1)   At the first meeting, the Board members shall determine by lot
the terms of the respective members, with one member serving until December 31,
2007, two members serving until December 31, 2008, two members serving until
December 31, 2009, and two members serving until December 31, 2010. Thereafter,
each member will be appointed for four years or until the agreement expires or
is terminated, whichever comes first.
      (2)   Any terminations, vacancies, or replacements that need to be
appointed or reappointed prior or at the expiration of a term as set forth in
divisions (B) and (C) above shall be made by the entity or persons appointing
said advisory Board member pursuant to divisions (B)(1) to (B)(6) above.
   (D)   The Board so established shall have the power to select the operator
of the animal shelter and establish the rules and regulations of the animal
shelter, which rules and regulations shall be pursuant to and consistent with
the policies and ordinances established by the County of Jefferson, the City of
Madison, and the Town of Hanover. The Madison-Jefferson County Animal Shelter
Advisory Board shall be advisory to the City of Madison, the County of
Jefferson, and the Town of Hanover. The operator of the animal shelter shall
submit to the Advisory Board an annual report and present this report to the
City Council and the Board of Commissioners of the County of Jefferson, and the
Town Council of the Town of Hanover.
   (E)   This agreement may be terminated by the town, the city, or the county
by either giving notice to the other parties three months prior to the proposed
termination date thereof. Upon termination, all personal property of the
Advisory Board shall revert to Jefferson County for use in conjunction with the
animal shelter.
   (F)   The Jefferson County Auditor shall act as the fiscal officer for the
Board, with the duty to receive, disburse, and account for all monies of the
joint undertaking.
   (G)   The City of Madison, Jefferson County, and the Town of Hanover shall
contribute annually for the operation and maintenance of the animal shelter
facility. The total of the annual appropriations from said entity is to be
contributed toward the annual budget of the shelter.
   (H)   Jefferson County, with the recommendation of the Animal Shelter
Advisory Board, shall have the right to enter into a contract for services with
a third-party for the day-to-day operation of the animal shelter.
   (I)   Any animal control officers appointed by either the County of
Jefferson or the City of Madison shall be supervised by the appointing
jurisdiction.
   (J)   The Board may acquire hold and dispose of personal property used in
the joint undertaking utilizing procedures for public purchase applicable to
the Jefferson County Board of Commissioners. The Board is not authorized to
acquire or hold real property.
(Ord. passed 2-20-2007)
§ 31.04 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Department of Economic Development of
the town, to be controlled by a commission known as the town’s Economic
Development Commission (the “Commission”).
   (B)   The Commission shall be constituted and organized and shall have such
purposes, powers, and duties as are provided in the Act (as presently enacted
and in effect and as it may hereafter be amended).
   (C)   The three members of the Commission shall be appointed by the
President of the Town Council. One of the members shall be selected by the
President of the Town Council, one of the members shall be nominated by the
County Council, and one of the members shall be nominated by the Town Council.
After the adoption of the ordinance codified herein, the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town shall promptly notify the County Council of its right to nominate a member
of the Commission.
(Ord. 1989-9, passed 12-20-1989)
§ 31.05 CLERK-TREASURER, DEPUTY CLERK AND UTILITY CLERK.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments as required by law.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may perform all duties prescribed by law, which
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town monies, and pay them out upon order
of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts of all town monies;
      (3)   File monthly reports with the Town Council showing all receipts and
disbursements of the town treasury for the preceding month;
      (4)   Maintain records which are open for inspection by the Town Council;
      (5)   Collect fines resulting from ordinance violations;
      (6)   Issue all licenses; and
      (7)   Attend all Town Council meetings and maintain a recording of its
proceedings.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and Town Fiscal Officer
pursuant to I.C. 36-5-6-2.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint a Deputy Clerk and Utility Clerk as
needed.
§ 31.06 TOWN PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment of Commission. There is established a Town Plan
Commission under the authority provided in Chapter 174 of the Acts of 1947 of
the Indiana General Assembly, being I.C. 36-7-1 et seq.
   (B)   Membership.  
      (1)   The membership be as provided by said statute, and shall be
composed of three persons in the town government, to be appointed by the Town
Council, and four citizen members to be appointed by the President of the Town
Council, not more than two of whom shall be members of the same political
party.
      (2)   Initial terms of citizen members shall be:
         (a)   Two for a term of three years;
         (b)   Two for a term of four years; and
         (c)   Citizen members shall hold no other office in the town
government and shall be residents of the town.
§ 31.07 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-5-2(b)(1), there is hereby created
a municipal Department of Parks and Recreation;
   (B)   The Hanover Parks Board is hereby organized and structured with the
membership of a park authority under I.C. 36-10-5-2(b)(1). Accordingly, the
members of the municipal legislative body of Hanover shall hereafter serve as
ex officio members of the Hanover Parks Board.
   (C)   The Hanover Parks Board shall have all authority and responsibility
over the operating and maintenance of the Hanover Parks Department, including
but not limited to, all property, facilities, personnel, and rules and
regulations of the Hanover Parks Department, as may be permitted by Indiana
law:
   (D)   The Hanover Parks Board shall have the power to perform all acts
necessary to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such
programs as are generally understood to be park and recreation functions; in
addition, the Board shall have all the powers listed in I.C. 36-10-3 et seq.
   (E)   The Hanover Parks Board may, from time to time, establish advisory
committees interested in the town, public parks, playgrounds, recreational
facilities, programs and properties, having authority and responsibility as
directed by the Hanover Parks Board.
   (F)   The Town Council may appoint a Superintendent of Parks and Recreation
to perform such duties as may be determined necessary for the efficient
management of parks and recreational areas and facilities that may be under the
jurisdiction of the town.
   (G)   The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation shall be selected by the
President of the Town Council and subject to the approval of the members of the
Council. Such Superintendent shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and be
compensated at an amount determined appropriate for the scope of the duties to
be performed.
   (H)   The Superintendent may have such powers, duties and responsibilities
as are provided by I.C. 36-10-3 et seq.
   (I)   It shall be the responsibility of the Superintendent to make a
thorough and comprehensive study of the future of the park and recreation needs
of the town and its environs and to make such recommendations to the Town
Council each calendar year as the Superintendent may deem necessary in addition
to the other duties as may be established by the Council.
   (J)   The Hanover Parks Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in
the same manner as other departments of town government as prescribed by the
State Board of Accounts. The Hanover Parks Board may accept gifts, donations,
and subsidies for park and recreation purposes.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 31.08 CABLE ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Members; terms.
      (1)   Members. There is hereby established a Cable Advisory Board with
two members appointed to that Board from each local governmental unit. Members
appointed to the Board shall be residents of the geographic area of the local
government unit making that appointment, and shall serve at the pleasure of the
local government unit. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation,
but shall be entitled to reimbursement of expenses from the Cable Advisory
Board Fund at the same rate as applies to city employees.
      (2)   Terms. The standard term of each appointment shall run from January
1 through December 31 for a period of three years.
         (a)   The terms of each appointee shall be staggered so that no more
than one appointee from each government unit shall have his or her term expire
at the end of any one year.
         (b)   No individual shall be appointed for more than two consecutive
full terms.
         (c)   An appointee who is named to replace a Board member shall be
expected to complete the remaining portion of the departing Board member’s
term.
   (B)   Contributions.
      (1)   The Board shall be funded by contributions from the cable
franchisee, any appropriations from the local governmental units, and is
authorized to receive gifts and other contributions from any other source.
      (2)   Any funds of the Board, from any source, shall be deposited with
the City Clerk- Treasurer,
who shall receive, disburse, and account for all monies of the Board pursuant
to I.C. 36-1-7-4(a)(3).
         (a)   A committee of three Board members who are not officers and
represent each of the governmental units shall conduct an annual audit and
submit the results of that audit to the City of Madison Clerk-Treasurer by
March 1.
         (b)   Claims for expenses of the Board shall be approved by a
plurality of the Board at a public meeting and shall be paid by the Treasurer
of the Board.
      (3)   The Cable Advisory Board shall be authorized to use the tax exempt
number of the City of Madison.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   The Cable Advisory Board shall execute its duties according to
terms described in the Cable Television Franchise Agreement.
      (2)   The Board shall advise the local governmental units on issues
involving cable television and the Cable Franchisee Agreement.
      (3)   The Cable Advisory Board shall coordinate use of local access
programming channels with the cable operator.
         (a)   The duration of the interlocal agreement shall be for the same
period as the Cable Television Franchisee Agreement.
         (b)   Upon termination of the interlocal agreement, any property of
the Cable Advisory Board shall become the property of the local governmental
units. If a governmental unit chooses to terminate its participation in this
agreement prior to the termination of this agreement by all other participating
governmental units, that governmental unit forfeits any and all claim to any
property of the Cable Advisory Board.
(Ord. 2022-5, passed 5-17-2022)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Safety Board
   
32.002   Town Marshal
   
32.003   Clothing allowance
Police Manual
   
32.015   Code of professional ethics
   
32.016   Performance standards
   
32.017   Selection of employees
   
32.018   Line of command
   
32.019   Responsibilities, personal conduct, and relationship of employees
   
32.020   Offenses
   
32.021   Reporting for work
   
32.022   Telephone requirement, address, marital status, and dependents
   
32.023   Property lost or destroyed
   
32.024   Rewards
   
32.025   Appearance in court
   
32.026   Use of force
   
32.027   Use and authorization of weapons and equipment
   
32.028   Probationary appointments
   
32.029   Retirement gift
Taser Use Policy
   
32.040   Purpose
   
32.041   Policy
   
32.042   Procedure
   
32.043   Usage and deployment procedures
Reserve Unit Bylaws
   
32.055   Unit description and requirements
   
32.056   Duties
   
32.057   Uniforms
   
32.058   Equipment
   
32.059   Emergency driving
   
32.060   Reserve Commander, Secretary
   
32.061   Meetings and dues
   
32.062   Training
   
32.063   Court appearances
   
32.064   Attitude
   
32.065   Disciplinary procedures
   
32.066   Appointment process
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 SAFETY BOARD.
   The Town Council shall serve as the Safety Board.
§ 32.002 TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Marshal shall attend each meeting of the town’s Citizen
Police Advisory Board and shall have the authority to call any special meeting
of the town’s Citizen Police Advisory Board with at least 24 hours’ notice to
each Board member, and with at least 72 hours to each Board member and public
notification, if required by law.
      (2)   The Town Marshal shall report to the Town Council and shall act as
a liaison between the town’s Citizen Police Advisory Board and the Town
Council.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Marshal shall serve as Street Commissioner for the town
pursuant to I.C. 36-5-7-5.
      (2)   The Town Marshal shall assume all rights, responsibilities, and
obligations as the Street Commissioner. As Street Commissioner, the Town
Marshal shall have all powers and authority as prescribed and permitted by
state law.
(Ord. 1998-30, passed 10-14-1998; Ord. 2003-3, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 32.003 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The town may purchase necessary items of clothing for use by the Town
Marshal and his or her deputies up to $400 per person per calendar year as
needed from January 1 through December 31.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or deputy must obtain clothing by a process defined
by the town who will pay said bill(s) up to $400 per officer per calendar year.
(Ord. 1996-3, passed 2-8-1996)
POLICE MANUAL
§ 32.015 CODE OF PROFESSIONAL ETHICS.
   (A)   In America, where the supremacy of public opinion is assured, it is
essential that the system upon which public safety depends is developed to a
high degree of efficiency and that it is administered in a manner to assure the
continued approbation and respect of the public.
   (B)   Rules cannot be drawn that will prescribe in specific detail the
manner in which all the duties of law enforcement officers shall be performed.
The problems of police service are many and they are subject to the influence
of the constant development of public administration. This subchapter describes
the basic objectives sought and provides general rules for the performance of
the manifold duties of law enforcement officers.
   (C)   The basic objectives are:
      (1)   To encourage fair and impartial enforcement of the laws and the
protection of individual rights;
      (2)   To elevate the standing of the profession in the public mind, and
to strengthen public confidence in law enforcement;
      (3)   To encourage law enforcement officers to fully appreciate the
responsibilities of their office;
      (4)   To develop and maintain complete support and cooperation of the
public for law enforcement;
      (5)   To ensure the effectiveness of the service by encouraging complete
cooperation of its members for their mutual benefit;
      (6)   To strive for full coordination of effort in all official
relationships with other governmental bodies; and
      (7)   To consider police work an honorable profession and to recognize in
it an opportunity to render a worthwhile service to society.
   (D)   General rules of official conduct include the following.
      (1)   Members of the town’s Police Department shall be habitually
courteous; they shall recognize their responsibilities as public servants and
shall be particularly attentive to citizens seeking assistance or information
or who desire to register complaints or give evidence.
      (2)   They shall accept their responsibility to the public by being
punctual in their engagements and expeditious in the performance of their
duties.
      (3)   They shall regard their office as a public trust, and in the
discharge of their duties, be constantly mindful of their primary obligation to
serve the public efficiently and effectively.
      (4)   They shall administer the law in a just, impartial, and reasonable
manner; and shall not accord to some more reasonable treatment than to others.
They shall recognize the limitations of their authority and at no time use the
power of their office for their own personal advantage.
      (5)   They shall be true to their obligation as custodians of public
property and shall bear in mind that the misuse and waste of public property is
equally as reprehensible as the misuse or waste of money from the public
treasury.
      (6)   They shall not limit their effectiveness in the administration of
their office by accepting gratuities or favors from those with whom they may
have official dealings.
      (7)   They shall cooperate fully with all public officials to the end
that the safety and general welfare of the public will be assured. They shall
not permit jealousies or personal differences to influence their cooperation
with other agencies or with one another.
      (8)   They shall add to their effectiveness by diligent study and sincere
attention to self-improvement. They shall welcome the opportunity to
disseminate practical and useful information relating to matters of the
public’s safety and welfare.
      (9)   They shall so conduct their public and private lives that the
public will regard them as examples of stability, fidelity, and morality.
      (10)   They shall bear faithful allegiance to their government, and be
loyal to their profession. They shall accept, as a sacred obligation, their
responsibility as citizens to support the constitutions and laws of the United
States and of the state; and as public servants, they shall consider the
privilege of defending the principles of liberty, as defined in our
constitutions and laws, the greatest honor that may be bestowed upon any
person.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.016 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   A town police officer will support, protect, defend, and obey the
constitutions and laws of the United States and the state, and the regulations
of the town’s Police Department; he or she will keep himself or herself and his
or her commanders informed of the criminal, traffic, and other police problems
in his or her assigned area, and he or she will take whatever lawful action is
necessary to prevent and reduce crime, traffic accidents, and other disorder,
using all of the imagination, initiative, and ingenuity at his or her disposal,
attempting to gain willful compliance with the law whenever possible; he or she
will, to this end, give the town an honest day’s work for a day’s pay
recognizing and accepting the fact that he or she will often be required to
work long hours to accomplish his or her mission; he or she will remain willing
to accept additional Department duties and responsibilities; he or she will
accept the responsibilities of leadership in police circles which is
traditionally expected of a town police officer; he or she will walk the extra
mile to gain cooperation with other public officials; he or she will recognize
his or her responsibility in civic affairs and will, within the limits of his
or her position, support responsible and worthwhile community projects; he or
she will not criticize his or her superior officers or the Department for the
sake of criticism, but he or she will never hesitate to offer respectful
criticism, coupled with a suggestion, of how the task may be better performed;
he or she will maintain a positive attitude toward his or her job, taking pride
in his or her profession, and when he or she is no longer able to honestly
abide by these standards, he or she will, for the good of the Department,
resign.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.017 SELECTION OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   All police employees shall be appointed to the Department:
      (1)   By the Marshal with the approval of the Town Council members; and
      (2)   Must attend and successfully complete all training at the state’s
law enforcement academy within the first year of employment.
   (B)   Applicants for position as police employees shall be required to meet
the following qualifications in order to be considered.
      (1)   Applicant must be 21 to 35 years of age and submit a copy of their
birth certificate.
      (2)   Applicant must possess a valid Indiana driver’s license.
      (3)   Applicant must have a high school diploma or equivalent, and must
submit a transcript of high school and college credits with the application.
      (4)    Applicant must submit to an extensive physical examination,
including an eye examination to determine visual acuity. Applicant must have
visual acuity of at least 20-50, correctable to 20-20 vision.
      (5)   Applicant must submit to a psychological examination and IQ test.
      (6)   Applicant must agree to an extensive background investigation
involving the applicant’s family, neighbors, business associates, employers,
military records, and credit references.
      (7)   Applicant must submit to a polygraph examination conducted by a
polygraph technician prior to employment.
      (8)   Applicant, upon being accepted for employment, must be
fingerprinted, subject to clearance for operation of computerized files.
      (9)   All interviews for Police Department applicants will be conducted
by the Marshal and/or other designated persons.
      (10)   All new hires are on probation status for a period of one year.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.018 LINE OF COMMAND.
   (A)   The normal line of command shall extend from the top to the bottom and
all contact for whatever purpose shall follow the same upward and downward line
of command whenever possible and practical, except in emergencies when the
proper superior officer is absent.
   (B)   In groups where no superior officer is present, the member with the
longest amount of consecutive years of service within the Department shall
automatically be in charge and responsible for the action of the group. Date of
rank shall determine the person in charge of the group or shift where two
officers of the same rank are present. The ranking officer shall be in command
of the group or shift.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.019 RESPONSIBILITIES, PERSONAL CONDUCT, AND RELATIONSHIP OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Employees in charge of shifts shall:
      (1)   Be responsible for the proper conduct of the business of the
Department within their jurisdiction;
      (2)   Make sure all reports that are required by the Department are
properly made and handled;
      (3)   Endorse and forward all official request originated by employees
subordinate to them;
      (4)   Assign specific duties to the employees subordinate to them and
review their work periodically for performance;
      (5)   Maintain good order and cleanliness among the offices, equipment,
buildings, and other items over which they may have jurisdiction; and
      (6)   Cooperate with other official and private agencies in a reasonable
manner to advance the cause of law enforcement, safety, and crime prevention.
   (B)   In fulfilling their responsibilities to the Department, all employees
shall:
      (1)   Obey all public laws;
      (2)   Obey the regulations of the Department and the commands of superior
officers;
      (3)   Completely perform such duties as are reasonably assigned to them;
      (4)   Refrain from engaging in any other activity, business, trade, or
occupation that takes priority over their obligations to the Department, or
that would limit their effectiveness in the discharge of their official duties,
or that would tend to reflect discredit to the Department;
      (5)   Appear and remain at the work assigned during the hours and days
prescribed by their superiors;
      (6)   Request permission for absence of leave in advance, and when ill or
injured, notify the officer in charge as soon as possible;
      (7)   Be available through channels known to their superiors for calls;
      (8)   Inpart the official business of the Department only to whom it is
intended or under due process of law;
      (9)   Truthfully and accurately render such reports as required by the
Department or by a superior officer;
      (10)   Be accountable for the preservation and proper use of all property
assigned to them for official use;
      (11)   Exercise due courtesy to and consideration for all persons with
whom they may come into contact; and
      (12)   Refrain from criticizing the order of decisions of a superior
officer or a subordinate, in public or outside the Department.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.020 OFFENSES.
   (A)   Offenses for which charges may be preferred:
      (1)   Cowardice;
      (2)   Willful disobedience of rules and regulations;
      (3)   Willful maltreatment of a prisoner or any other person;
      (4)   Being under the influence of intoxicating liquor;
      (5)   Conduct unbecoming a police officer;
      (6)   Insubordination or disrespect towards a superior officer;
      (7)   Neglect or inattention to duty;
      (8)   General incompetency;
      (9)   Being absent from duty or post without permission;
      (10)   Sleeping or lounging on duty;
      (11)   Using coarse, profane, or insolent language to a superior officer
or to any member of the Department, or to a citizen;
      (12)   Making a false report;
      (13)   Neglect to wear proper uniform while on duty or to appear clean
and tidy in person and dress at all times;
      (14)   Receiving bribes in money or other valuable items;
      (15)   Receiving or accepting any fee, reward, or gift of any kind from
any friend in his or her behalf, while in custody, or from any person for
services rendered or pretended to be rendered as a member of the Department,
without the consent of the Chief of Police;
      (16)   Gossiping about the character or conduct of any member of the
Department to the detriment of such member;
      (17)   Publicly criticizing any order given by a superior officer;
      (18)   Communicating or giving any police information to any person
without authorization by the Marshal;
      (19)   Giving any information which may aid a person to escape arrest, or
to the delay of apprehension of a criminal, to secure the removal of stolen
goods or any other property or money;
      (20)   Neglecting to pay a just indebtedness within a reasonable time and
without a reasonable excuse;
      (21)   Refusing to give badge number or name when reasonably requested;
      (22)   Neglecting to turn over all property taken from person arrested,
or found, or seized, to the proper officer;
      (23)   Using firearms except in extreme emergencies. Includes the firing
of warning shots, warning shots are not permitted; and
      (24)   Violating any city, state, or federal laws or ordinances.
   (B)   This list is not intended to be all inclusive and any officer who does
not achieve and maintain acceptable standards of conduct shall be subject to
disciplinary measures, up to and including discharge.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.021 REPORTING FOR WORK.
   Each member is expected to observe assigned work hours. If an employee will
be delayed or must be absent from work for any reason, as much advance notice
as possible should be given the superior officer. After an employee has been
absent from work for a period of time due to sickness or any other reason, the
superior officer should be notified as soon as possible of the date the
employee can report back to duty.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.022 TELEPHONE REQUIREMENT, ADDRESS, MARITAL STATUS, AND DEPENDENTS.
   Employees are required to have a telephone in their private residence and
that number is to be made available by having said telephone number posted at
the radio and made available to all police officers.
Employees who have a change of address, telephone, marital status, or number of
dependents will notify their superior officer as soon as possible.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.023 PROPERTY LOST OR DESTROYED.
   All property issued to an employee that is owned by the town which is lost
or destroyed will be accounted for by that employee.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.024 REWARDS.
   All employees are not entitled to and are forbidden to accept a fee or
reward of any kind, but their regular pay for services performed in the line of
duty.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.025 APPEARANCE IN COURT.
   Whenever officers are to appear in court regarding cases they have
investigated or on Department business, the following dress code shall apply:
   (A)   At a hearing without a jury present, the officer may wear the uniform
or dress slacks and shirt.
   (B)   At a jury trial, the officer shall wear the uniform or a suit, or a
sports coat and tie.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.026 USE OF FORCE.
   Pursuant to I.C. 35-41-3-2 and 35-41-3-3, concerning the use of force, the
following guidelines shall be the policy of the town’s Police Department. These
guidelines are intended to be an extension or further explanation of the state
statutes and are consistent with the state code.
   (A)   Minimum use of force. Officers shall use only the minimum amount of
force which is necessary to accomplish an arrest after they provide the person
with a reasonable opportunity to comply with the arrest procedure. Necessary
action taken by a town police officer effecting an arrest, defending himself or
herself or another person, will be considered justified, provided each of the
following is present, given the special circumstances at hand:
      (1)   The officer is acting officially as a police officer within the
boundaries of his or her legal authority and has properly identified himself or
herself as a police officer;
      (2)   The means and the force employed are not excessive, unreasonable,
or unnecessary under the specific circumstances; and
      (3)   The police officer has no acceptable alternative available to him
or her, considering his or her sworn obligation not to retreat from his or her
official mission and his or her individual right of self-protection or the
protection of others.
   (B)   Care of injured prisoner. Whenever it becomes necessary to use force
against any person in order to overcome resistance to arrest to ward off
physical attack or for other reasons, the injured prisoner shall be taken to
Kings Daughters Hospital either by ambulance or by the officer depending upon
the extent of the injuries. If the injury is minor and the prisoner is taken to
the county jail, a picture of the prisoner depicting the injury shall be taken
by the supervisor in charge of the shift.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.027 USE AND AUTHORIZATION OF WEAPONS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Use of flashlight, baton, or night stick.
      (1)   A flashlight or baton may be used as a defensive weapon by a police
officer to protect himself or herself or another person from physical harm. A
blow to the head may not be struck with a flashlight or baton unless the
situation is life threatening for the officer or another person.
      (2)   The flashlight or baton may be used when the individual violently
resists arrest and assaults or attempts to assault the arresting officer(s).
      (3)   The general target area of the baton or flashlight shall be
portions of the body that may be struck without causing permanent or fatal
injuries. These locations are as follows:
         (a)   Muscular areas, back of the thighs, hamstring muscles, calves,
and biceps;
         (b)   Areas where the skin is near the bone, hand, wrist, arm, and
shins; and
         (c)   Highly sensitive areas: solar plexis (stomach areas).
      (4)   Officers shall refrain from striking persons in the head region,
since the blow to this region may reasonably be expected to result in death or
serious injury. Blows to the throat can also be lethal.
      (5)   The baton may be carried in its holder on the officer’s parson or
in the patrol vehicle until a potentially dangerous situation arises or when a
hostile person must be removed or subdued. The flashlight may be carried on the
officer’s person or in the patrol vehicle as needed.
   (B)   Use of chemical mace (non-lethal weapon).
      (1)   Officers are authorized to carry non-lethal chemical mace issued by
the Department. The mace may be carried on the officer’s person.
      (2)   Chemical mace may be used when necessary to accomplish an arrest
when such force is reasonable and required to render the prisoner non-combative
to avoid injury to the officer or another person.
   (C)   Use of the 12-gauge pump shotgun.
      (1)   The Police Department provides a 12-gauge pump shotgun as standard
equipment for each marked patrol vehicle, along with ammunition.
      (2)   Officers shall familiarize themselves with the use of this weapon
as required by the training officer.
      (3)   The use of the shotgun in the line of duty shall be at the
officer’s discretion when circumstances warrant to provide for the protection
and safety of the officer.
(Ord. 1991-7, passed - -)
§ 32.028 PROBATIONARY APPOINTMENTS.
   The Safety Board may provide that all appointments to the Police or Fire
Department are probationary for a period not to exceed one year. If the Safety
Board finds, upon the recommendation of the Chief of the Department during the
probationary period, that the conduct or capacity of a member is not
satisfactory, the Safety Board shall notify the member in writing that the
member is being suspended or that the member will not receive a permanent
appointment. If a member is notified that the member will not receive a
permanent appointment, the member’s employment immediately ceases. Otherwise,
at the expiration of the probationary period, the member is considered
regularly employed.
(I.C. 36-8-4-12)
§ 32.029 RETIREMENT GIFT.
   Whenever a member of the town’s Police Department or the Town Marshal shall
retire from the force at an age of 50 years or older, and with 15 years or more
of service, that person shall be entitled to keep their service weapon as a
gift from the town.
(Ord. 1993-26, passed 12-1-1993)
TASER USE POLICY
§ 32.040 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this policy is to provide officers with guidance and
direction on the use of a neuro-muscular incapacitation device, the taser. The
taser will be used as an additional police tool and is not intended to replace
firearms or other self-defense techniques.
(Res. 2008-7, passed 10-7-2008)
§ 32.041 POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of this Department to use only that level of force
reasonably necessary to control or otherwise subdue violent or potentially
violent individuals. Neuro-muscular incapacitation (NMI) systems have been
proven effective in furtherance of this policy, and are authorized for use by
trained personnel. NMI systems override the central nervous system and takes
direct control of the skeletal muscles. The taser is an NMI system and affects
the sensory and motor nervous system. The NMI system overwhelms the nervous
systems with signals and goes one step further by directly causing the muscles
to contract and incapacitate violent or potentially violent subjects.
   (B)   Officers having successfully completed the Department training program
regarding the use of the taser will be authorized to carry the device. It will
be mandatory that all officers assigned to shift detail carry the taser while
on duty. To be certified in the use of the taser, it is not required that
officers take a “hit” during the training, but it is recommended.
(Res. 2008-7, passed 10-7-2008)
§ 32.042 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The decision to use the taser follows the same basic criteria as using
OC spray.
   (B)   As such, it is prohibited from being used:
      (1)   In a punitive or coercive manner;
      (2)   On a handcuffed/secured prisoner, absent overtly assaultive
behavior which cannot be reasonably addressed in any less intrusive fashion;
      (3)   On any subject who does not demonstrate, by action, word, or deed,
his or her intention to use violence or force against the officer or other
person, or flight, in cases where officers would pursue on foot, to resist/
avoid detention or arrest;
      (4)   In any environment where potentially flammable, volatile, or
explosive material, including, but not limited to, such things as OC spray with
volatile carriers, gasoline, natural gas, propane, and the like is present;
      (5)   Any known or obviously pregnant female;
      (6)   A subject who may receive a secondary injury resulting from a fall
from its use, i.e., standing on a roof ledge, high elevation, operating a
moving motor vehicle; and
      (7)   In facial area of the head, neck, groin, and female breast, if
possible.
(Res. 2008-7, passed 10-7-2008)
§ 32.043 USAGE AND DEPLOYMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General regulations.
      (1)   Offices who carry the taser for operational deployment must have
satisfactorily completed the Department’s approved in-service training program.
      (2)   The device will only be used with power sources recommended by the
manufacturer.
      (3)   The device shall be carried fully armed, with safety on in
preparation for use in appropriate circumstances.
      (4)   Approved officers shall be issued a minimum of one spare cartridge
and have it accessible in case of cartridge failure or the need for
reapplication.
      (5)   The device shall be pointed in a safe direction with the safety on
during loading, unloading, or other necessary handling outside an operational
deployment.
      (6)   Each discharge, including accidental discharge, of the taser shall
be investigated and documented on a use of force report by the Town Marshal or
his or her designee.
      (7)   Prior to the use of the taser, if practical, broadcast “TASER”
indicating the use of the taser is imminent to prevent unintentional shooting.
      (8)   If a threat continues, the officer will aim at center mass or at
the legs of the threat using the top sights and or the laser sight. Never aim
at the throat, head, or groin of the threat.
      (9)   In preparation of firing operationally, the device shall be pointed
in a safe direction, taken off safe, then aimed and fired in a manner
consistent with Department approved training.
      (10)   Upon firing the taser, pull the trigger and release, allowing the
taser to cycle for the full five seconds. The taser will automatically shut off
unless the trigger is pulled continuously or the safety lever is switched on.
The officer shall engage the subject no longer than necessary to accomplish the
legitimate operational objective.
      (11)   If a miss or failure occurs, the officer will immediately, if
possible, remove the cartridge and reload the device with a new cartridge, re-
evaluate the situation, and fire again, if necessary and appropriate.
      (12)   If additional applications of the device are required because the
assaultive or violent threat is still present, the deploying officer will pull
the trigger and allow the five second cycle to take its course.
      (13)   Upon gaining compliance, the following shall be completed:
         (a)   Secure the subject in handcuffs as quickly as possible, if
appropriate;
         (b)   Remove the probes from the suspect in the field in the manner
prescribed in training. The officer removing the probes shall wear latex gloves
during the process. An antiseptic swab will be used on punctured areas of skin
and a bandage applied;
         (c)   Inspect the probes upon removal to ensure that the entire probe
and its barbs have been removed. If any part of the probe breaks off in the
subject and remains embedded in the subject’s skin, medical personnel will be
summoned to assess the subject and removal of the lodged object. Medical
personnel will also be requested to remove any probe that is hard to remove or
located in sensitive areas; such as head, neck, groin, face, and eyes.
Photographs should be taken of these impact areas; and
         (d)   Officers should be alert for any injury that may or may not have
been brought about by the police use of force, which left untreated could
become a possible serious problem for both the injured suspect and the
Department. Officers will have a physician at KDH examine all suspects who fall
under either of the following categories:
            1.   The suspect has an obvious injury, which, in the opinion of
the officer in charge, requires treatment; or
            2.   The suspect requests medical treatment for an injury, whether
obvious or not.
      (14)   The town’s Police Department will not be responsible for any
medical cost incurred.
   (B)   Taser - stun mode.
      (1)   The taser can function in stun mode after the probes have been
fired as a backup weapon. To use the device in the drive stun mode, drive the
weapon aggressively into nerve or motor points for best effectiveness.
      (2)   It is important to note that the device used in drive stun mode is:
         (a)   Primarily a pain compliance tool due to the lack of probe
spread;
         (b)   Less effective than conventional cartridge type deployments;
         (c)   The focus of a disproportionate number of taser complaints,
allegations, specifically focused on coercive and punitive use and handcuffed/
grounded subjects; and
         (d)   More prone to leaving marks on the subject’s skin than cartridge
deployment.
   (C)   Equipment.
      (1)   After deployment, the air cartridge and probes used shall be tagged
into evidence. Since the probes may have blood on them (biohazard) the officer
shall wear latex gloves when handling. The wires shall be wound around the
cartridge. The probes shall be inverted into the portals which they were fired
from, this will prevent sharp ends from penetrating the evidence envelope. Tape
should be placed over the portals to secure the probes in the cartridge. Place
into evidence envelope.
      (2)   Every time an air cartridge is fired, it disperses 20-30
identification tags called AFIDs (anti- felon identification). These tags are
printed with the serial number of the cartridge and can be used to determine
who fired the cartridge. At least three AFIDs will be placed inside the
evidence envelope with the air cartridge. The number from the AFIDs shall be
logged on the use offeree report.
      (3)   Designated personnel, one other than the one using the taser, will
take control of the taser for downloading of information.
      (4)   The Town Marshal will retain all records and downloaded
information.
   (D)   Wearing of the taser. The preferred method of carrying the taser would
be for it to be attached to the officer’s duty belt. However, officers will be
permitted to carry the taser in a tactical position in drop leg holster,
located on the opposite side of the handgun holster, if the officer prefers.
(Res. 2008-7, passed 10-7-2008)
RESERVE UNIT BYLAWS
§ 32.055 UNIT DESCRIPTION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The town’s Reserve Unit is an association organized under the
auspices of the town and was formed under a town ordinance and state statute to
help the Town Marshal. It is run by the Marshal and the Reserve Commander, who
is a regular member of the Department. The Reserve Commander is in charge of
the Reserve Unit and, with the approval of the Marshal, takes charge of the
unit’s activities and day to day performance.
      (2)   It is the duty of each member of the Reserve Unit to work with the
Marshal and/or other members of the town’s Police Department. You will be
called on to work as a secondary unit on the road or to work special events and
details set forth by the Town Marshal. After state mandated training you will
be given police powers (only while you are on duty), with the approval of the
Marshal.
   (B)   (1)   Each member of the town’s Reserve Unit must be able to file and
complete all police reports, fill out and send all affidavits to the respective
courts and prosecutors, and complete all citation and warning tickets. You must
make yourself familiar with the operation of all radio and office equipment and
be able to operate said equipment.
      (2)   Each member of the unit will make themselves familiar with the
policy and procedures of the Department in the areas of regular officers and
follow these policies of the Reserve Unit. Any violation of policy and
procedure of the town’s Reserve Unit or town’s Police Department may result in
either suspension or dismissal from the unit. The Marshal reserves the right to
dismiss any member of the Reserve Unit at any time. This is an appointed
position.
      (3)   As a reserve for the town’s Police Department you are not entitled
to any Department benefits. This is a volunteer organization.
   (C)   (1)   Each applicant that is to be considered for the Reserve Unit
will be required to have an interview conducted by the Advisory Board before
final decisions are made for the position.
      (2)   Each applicant will also have to meet the following qualifications:
         (a)   Applicant must be an U.S. citizen and a legal resident of
county;
         (b)   Applicant must possess a valid Indiana driver’s license;
         (c)   Applicant must be at least 21 years of age or older and submit a
copy of their birth certificate;
         (d)   Applicant must be willing to submit to a background, criminal
history, and driving records check;
         (e)   Applicant must have a high school diploma or equivalent; and
         (f)   Applicant can not have been convicted of any felony and have a
substantially clean driving record and criminal record.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.056 DUTIES.
   Each member of the town’s Reserve Unit will, under the supervision of the
Marshal, do the following.
   (A)   Each member must successfully complete a 40-hour pre-basic course that
is required by state statute.
   (B)   After completion of the pre-basic course, each reserve will then
qualify with his or her firearm by Department standards at a time determined by
the Marshal.
   (C)   Each reserve will be required to put in an average of 12 hours of
reserve time each month. This may vary from time to time with the authorization
of the Marshal.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer will swear in each member of the unit, after
completion of the required courses, to the position of reserve deputy marshal.
   (E)   Each member will have the same police powers as a regular member of
the Department while on duty. The Town Marshal may restrict these powers.
   (F)   The primary duty of each reserve is to work special events such as
ball games, parades, and the like, and to perform other duties allowed by state
statute set forth by the Town Marshal.
   (G)   The Marshal will evaluate each reserve. After being evaluated, each
reserve will be able to patrol as a secondary unit on the road with full police
powers set forth by state statute.
   (H)   Each member will be on probation for a period of one year. During that
year, the required 12 hours per month will be with a full-time town police
officer during their regular shift.
   (I)   No reserve shall be on patrol without another reserve or a regular
full-time officer with the Department.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.057 UNIFORMS.
   (A)   The uniform for each reserve will be the same as each regular member
of the Department.
   (B)   All buttons, name tags, and/or other insignias will be silver or
colored but not gold. The buttons may either be “P” or state seal buttons.
   (C)   Shoes must be black in color and be polished to a high gloss shine.
   (D)   Uniforms should be clean and pressed and one must be neat in
appearance.
   (E)   Each reserve should be in full Department uniform while on duty.
   (F)   In the instance of being called in, the ranking duty officer can allow
you to work in something other than full uniform.
   (G)   Each reserve will be responsible for the purchase and upkeep of their
uniforms.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.058 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Each reserve will be responsible for the purchase and upkeep of their
firearms and any other equipment required by the Department.
   (B)   Each reserve shall carry any 9mm semi-automatic handgun with a minimum
12 round capacity. Each reserve officer shall carry two additional magazines
for carried service weapon. No member shall carry a firearm until they are
qualified to do so by the Department range officer.
   (C)   Each reserve will use either a black basket weave or black clarino
duty belt. It is the responsibility of each member for the purchase and upkeep
of their duty belts. Each belt and accessory will be polished to a high gloss
shine and neat in appearance.
   (D)   Each member will be responsible for the purchase of all accessories
for the duty belt (cuff cases, belt keeper, and the like) unless the Department
has any used equipment available and such equipment will be issued on a first
come first serve basis.
   (E)   All equipment, new or used, provided by the Department must and will
be returned to the Department upon the resignation, dismissal, or retirement of
the member. The equipment is expected to be in good condition and working
order.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.059 EMERGENCY DRIVING.
   (A)   No reserve shall drive an emergency run (signal 10) until training
with a regular officer and/or testing with the Marshal or Reserve Commander and
only then with the approval of the Marshal. At no time shall a reserve member
drive an unmarked car signal 10. No exceptions.
   (B)   A reserve will at all times drive with due regard for the public and
the safety of others. A reserve will stop at all stop lights and signs and
never pass on the right side of the road. Only in a case of extreme emergency
should one drive over 15 miles over the speed limit.
   (C)   A reserve must wear a safety belt at all times and ensure that all
occupants of the patrol car wear them also.
   (D)   A reserve is not to engage in pursuit driving at any time.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.060 RESERVE COMMANDER, SECRETARY.
   (A)   The Reserve Commander will be a regular full-time officer with the
Department. The Marshal will appoint the Reserve Commander.
   (B)   The Secretary will be elected each year on the first meeting in
December by a majority vote. That officer will run from January 1 to December
31 of each calendar year.
   (C)   It will be the duty of the Reserve Commander to run the meetings, to
schedule the reserves for special events and details, and to be in charge of
said events.
   (D)   The duties of the Secretary will be to take care of recording the
minutes of each meeting.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.061 MEETINGS AND DUES.
   (A)   The meetings of the Reserve Unit will be on the first Monday of each
month. If the Monday is a holiday then the meeting will be moved to the
following Monday.
   (B)   The Marshal may call special meetings. If a member feels that a
special meeting is needed, he or she or she must contact the Marshal.
   (C)   The meetings will be conducted by the Marshal.
   (D)   The Secretary/Treasurer will give a financial report at each meeting.
   (E)   Meetings of the Reserve Unit are mandatory and every member is
required to attend; exceptions will be made for emergency and work situations.
   (F)   Meeting time will not count towards a reserve’s hourly requirement.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.062 TRAINING.
   (A)   Every member of the Reserve Unit is encouraged to attend any ILEA
training or informal training put on by the County Sheriff’s Department,
Madison Police Department, SEILETC, or town’s Police Department with the
approval of the course instructor.
   (B)   After successful completion of your 40-hour pre-basic course, it will
be the responsibility of the member to keep up with general training in certain
areas (CPR, domestic violence, and the like).
   (C)   Any training can be determined mandatory at any time by the Marshal or
Reserve Commander. All members will be required to attend, except for work or
emergency situations. In those cases the Marshal or Reserve Commander needs to
be contacted.
   (D)   Training time will count towards your hourly requirement.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.063 COURT APPEARANCES.
   (A)   If you are called for a court hearing, you should wear your uniform or
proper business attire. No jeans or hats.
   (B)   There will be times you may have to wear something other than dress
clothes or uniform to court i.e., search warrant hearings and, probable cause
hearings for an arrest warrant. These instances are of course an exception.
   (C)   Be prepared and professional.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.064 ATTITUDE.
   (A)   All members of the Reserve Unit will be polite to members of the
general public at all times.
   (B)   All members of the Reserve Unit will refrain from talking about other
members of the Department or Reserve Unit in a rude or insolent manor to
members of the general public.
   (C)   At no time should a reserve member argue or disobey a regular member
of the Department unless it is against state statute or a risk of injury or
death to you or a member of the public.
   (D)   The senior officer on duty is in charge of each reserve unless the
Reserve Commander or Marshal is with him or her.
   (E)   If at any time a problem or complaint arises between a reserve member
and another reserve or regular officer, the Reserve Commander is to be advised
of the complaint. If the complaint is about the Reserve Commander, advise the
Marshal. Each reserve member will follow this chain of command.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.065 DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES.
   Any time a complaint is made against a reserve member or a member is accused
of being in violation of reserve policies or offenses listed in the Police
Manual, the following procedures will be followed.
   (A)   The Marshal will investigate any complaint or violation.
   (B)   If the Marshal finds that there is enough merit to the complaint that
warrants a suspension or dismissal, the reserve member will be given a chance
to explain themselves at a hearing conducted by the Advisory Board and the
Marshal.
   (C)   The Marshal will then make a final decision on suspension time or
dismissal.
   (D)   If a hearing needs to be held, it will be scheduled by the Advisory
Board at its earliest convenience.
   (E)   The Marshal still reserves the right to give temporary suspension
before a hearing, if needed, or to dismiss any member for a violation witnessed
by any member of any law enforcement agency.
   (F)   A record of any disciplinary action will be kept in the reserve
member’s file.
   (G)   If a member is suspended, that member will be required to return all
identification and equipment provided by the Department in 48 hours and may not
attend any law enforcement function or activity. The member will have no police
powers during his or her suspension period.
   (H)   The decision of the Advisory Board and the Marshal shall be referred
to the Town Council for final action. The Town Council reserves the right to
remove any reserve officer with just cause.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.066 APPOINTMENT PROCESS.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of reserve deputy to be
appointed by the Town Marshal and to serve under the Town Marshal. Reserve
deputies serve at the pleasure of the Town Marshal and must be re-appointed if
there is a change in the position of Town Marshal.
   (B)   Any person that makes an application for appointment as a reserve
deputy marshal shall have a background investigation done. This background
investigation shall consist of a NCIC/IDACS file check, local warrant check,
and any out of state location at which the applicant may have resided for any
period of time. An investigation as to the applicant’s driving history shall
also be completed. A file shall be kept on each appointee to attest that his or
her background investigation has been fully completed.
   (C)   The number of reserve deputies shall be limited to ten.
   (D)   Reserve deputies shall serve without remuneration of any type.
   (E)   Reserve deputies shall be added to the Department’s liability
insurance plan.
   (F)   Reserve deputies shall be required to participate in a continuing
education program after completing the basic Department training.
(Ord. 1999-2, passed 2-10-1999; Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-19-2012)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Fees and Charges
   
33.001   Community Center rental
   
33.002   Charges for reports and copies
   
33.003   Returned check charge
   
33.004   Vehicle inspection fee
   
33.005   Compost center permits
Officials and Employees Generally
   
33.010   Internal Control Standards
   
33.011   Reimbursement for court attendance
   
33.012   Functions officials are authorized to attend
Comprehensive Plans
   
33.020   County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
33.021   Capital Improvement Plan
   
33.022   Wastewater Treatment Preliminary Engineering Report Facilities Plan
   
33.023   Comprehensive Plan
Non-Smoking Areas
   
33.035   Definitions
   
33.036   Application
   
33.037   Posting signs
   
33.038   Enforcement
   
33.039   Non-retaliation
   
33.040   Conflict of law
   
33.041   Interpretation of regulations
   
33.042   Town buildings and vehicles
Use of Town-Owned Buildings by Non-Profit Organizations
   
33.055   Use of town-owned buildings
   
33.056   Definitions
   
33.057   Application for use of property
   
33.058   Security
   
33.059   Schedule conflicts
   
33.060   Fees
   
33.061   Financial reports
   
33.062   Insurance
   
33.063   Responsibility for damage
   
33.064   Access before event
   
33.065   Cleaning after the event
   
33.066   Contract requirement
Internal Investigations
   
33.175   Purpose
   
33.176   Policy
   
33.177   Internal investigation procedure
Capital Asset Management Policy
   
33.185   Policy
 
   
33.999   Penalty
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 33.001 COMMUNITY CENTER RENTAL.
   (A)   The Town Council, as the municipal legislative body, hereby determines
that the town is authorized to rent the town’s Community Center.
   (B)   (1)   The rental of the town’s Community Center is on a first-come
basis.
      (2)   Prior to the rent of the park facilities, the renter must fill out
a facility use agreement and make a $50 deposit. It is suggested this be done
at least 30 days prior to the rental date.
      (3)   Reservations will be confirmed upon receipt of the facility use
agreement and the $50 deposit. The Clerk-Treasurer will initial the agreement
to show confirmation. A completed initialed copy of the agreement will be given
to the renter.
   (C)   The $50 deposit will be refunded subject to the following of all
rental rules.
   (D)   Balance of the rental rate must be paid seven days prior to the rental
date.
   (E)   A rental rate for the large room (approximately 2,285 square feet) is
$150 for four consecutive hours. Additional hourly rate is $30 per hour.
Kitchen rental rate is $50.
   (F)   The town reserves the right to revoke future rental privileges to
anyone who violates any of the rental rules.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 33.002 CHARGES FOR REPORTS AND COPIES.
   (A)   The town shall collect charges for photocopies: $0.10 for each black
and white copy and $0.25 for each color copy.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8, I.C. 9-13-2-93.2, and I.C. 9-29-5-9,
the town shall collect the following fees for the collection, reproduction, and
dissemination of information when requested by the public.
                                                        
                    Accident report                     $7/copy
                    Copy of digital photographs,
                    reproduction on compact disc (incl. $50
                    CD and preparation time)
                    Copy of non-digital photographs     Actual cost to develop
                    Copy of video tape/DVD (incl. tape/ $50
Police Department   DVD and preparation time)
                    Criminal history check (processing/ $7/copy
                    copy)
                    Criminal history check (processing/ $3
                    view only)
                    Dispatch tape (incl. tape and       $40/hour
                    preparation)
                    Incident reports                    $7/copy
                    VIN check                           $5
                    Digital photographs printed         $0.25/per page
                    individually on computer
                    Digital photographs reproduced on
                    compact disc (incl. preparation and $50
                    CD)
General departments Diskettes/compact discs             $0.50
                    Documents duplicated outside office actual cost
                    Miscellaneous copies                $0.10/page
                    Non-digital photographs             actual cost to develop
                    Fees for books and pamphlets containing public records
                    shall not exceed the actual cost of production including
                    copying charges and binding.
 
      (2)   Fees paid for accident reports as permitted by I.C. 9-13-2-93.2
shall be deposited as required by I.C. 9-13-2-93.2.
      (3)   Fees paid for vehicle identification number (VIN) checks as
permitted by I.C. 9-29-4-2 shall be deposited as required by I.C. 9-29-5-9.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 11-15-2011; Ord. 2013-09, passed 6-4-2013)
§ 33.003 RETURNED CHECK CHARGE.
   (A)   A service charge of $20 is now and hereby imposed on the issuer of all
checks returned to the town for reason of non-sufficient funds and that said
charge shall apply to all payments by check to the town including, but not
limited to, payments to the water and sewage utilities.
   (B)   Said service charge, in addition to the amount of the returned check,
shall be payable in the form of cash or a money order and shall be due in full
no later than five days from the date of notification. Notice is considered as
having been given at the time the notice was deposited in the regular United
States mail. In cases involving payments to the water and sewage utilities,
delinquent accounts shall be disconnected from service if payment is not
received within the five-day period noted above.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is now and hereby authorized and directed to do
such things as may be necessary, including the bringing of a legal action, to
collect said service charge.
(Ord. 1992-18, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 33.004 VEHICLE INSPECTION FEE.
   Whenever a member of the town police force shall perform the inspection
described in I.C. 9-17-2-12, they shall charge the owner of the vehicle being
inspected a $5 fee.
(Ord. 1993-3, passed 2-17-1993)
§ 33.005 COMPOST CENTER PERMITS.
   (A)   The Town Council, as the municipal legislative body, hereby determine
that the town is authorized to sell permits for the use of the town compost
center for the purchase price of $35 to residents who reside outside of the
town limits.
   (B)   Prior to the sale of a permit for the town compost center, the
purchaser must show proof of residency to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   The permit shall be valid from March 15 to October 30 for the year in
which it was purchased.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to revoke the permit from a purchaser if
the purchaser violates any of the usage guidelines set forth for the town
compost center.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 4-6-2004)
OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES GENERALLY
§ 33.010 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political
Subdivisions published by the State Board of Accounts at http://www.in.gov/
sboa/files/UniformlnternalControlStandards.pdf and are adopted in their current
form as well as in future modified, altered, or amended form for implementation
by the town.
   (B)   The Approved Personnel Training Materials published by the State Board
of Accounts at http://www.in.gov/sboa/files/UniformlnternalControlStandards.pdf
and attached here are adopted in their current form as well as in any future
modified, altered, or amended form for implementation by the town.
   (C)   All personnel whose official duties include receiving, processing,
depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that belong to the
federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or another
governmental entity shall complete said training prior to December 31, 2016.
   (D)   All future personnel whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another government entity shall complete said training during orientation and
job training.
(Ord. 2016-24, passed 12-27-2016)
§ 33.011 REIMBURSEMENT FOR COURT ATTENDANCE.
   Whenever a member of the Town Council is required to attend a hearing, as a
witness, in any lawsuit in which the town is a party, or is required to attend
any meeting as a town representative, and as a result of such attendance loses
wages from their regular job, then the town shall reimburse said Town Council
member for any lost wages.
(Ord. passed 12-30-1998)
§ 33.012 FUNCTIONS OFFICIALS ARE AUTHORIZED TO ATTEND.
   (A)   All elected officials and employees of the town are authorized to
attend all functions of the following list of organizations if their attendance
is in the best interest of said town:
      (1)   Indiana Street Commissioners Association;
      (2)   Indiana Water Association, Inc.;
      (3)   American Water Works Association;
      (4)   Southern Indiana Operators Association;
      (5)   Water Pollution Control Federation;
      (6)   Indiana Water Pollution Control Association;
      (7)   Madison Area Chamber of Commerce;
      (8)   Indiana Association of Cities and Towns;
      (9)   Indiana League of Municipal Clerks and Treasurers;
      (10)   Indiana Department of Environmental Management;
      (11)   Indiana State Board of Accounts;
      (12)   Indiana State Board of Tax Commissioners;
      (13)   Indiana State Police;
      (14)   City of Madison Police Department;
      (15)   Jefferson County Sheriff’s Department;
      (16)   National Association of Chiefs of Police; and
      (17)   Fraternal Order of Police.
   (B)   The town shall reimburse said employees or elected officials who
furnish proper receipts for the following expenses incurred while attending
these functions: lodging expenses not to exceed the single room rate per night
for each night preceding and during the meeting dates with the exception of
those nights when a room is shared with another town employee or elected
official, in which case the full room rate will be reimbursed; registration
fees and activities planned by the sponsoring agent; mileage at the current
federal rate per mile to the person furnishing the conveyance for each mile
necessarily traveled to the place of the meeting and return; and meals not to
exceed $24 per day.
(Ord. 1992-13, passed 9-16-1992)
COMPREHENSIVE PLANS
§ 33.020 COUNTY MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Jefferson County All Hazard Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted as
an official plan of the town.
   (B)   The town hereby adopts the Jefferson County Multi-Hazard Mitigation
Plan as an official plan.
(Res. 2008-9, passed 11-17-2008; Res. 2016-01, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 33.021 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   The New Capital Improvement Plan of the town is hereby adopted, a copy of
the Plan can be found in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 1-2-2013; Ord. 2013-23, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 33.022 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING REPORT FACILITIES PLAN.
   The Wastewater Treatment Preliminary Engineering Report Facilities Plan
dated January, 1998 be approved and adopted by the Town Council. Said Plan be
submitted to the state’s Department of Environmental Management for review and
approval.
(Res. 1998-5, passed 5-13-1998)
§ 33.023 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The Hanover Town Council hereby adopts the Comprehensive Plan and all Plan
recommendations, attached to Res. 2024-5.
(Res. 2024-5, passed 2-6-2024)
NON-SMOKING AREAS
§ 33.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area used by the general public, including, but
not limited to, retail stores and financial institutions, department stores,
banks, laundromats, and beauty and barber shops, retail food production and
marketing establishments, retail service establishments, and other commercial
establishments, regardless of whether a fee is charged for admission to the
place.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. The act of vaping, lighting, carrying, inhaling from, or
leaving a lighted or smoldering cigar, cigarette, electric smoking device, or
pipe of any kind.
(Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-2-2013; Ord. 2014-05, passed 1-28-2014)
§ 33.036 APPLICATION.
   All facilities (including buildings, parkland, grounds, and vehicles) owned,
leased, or operated by the town shall be subject to the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 33.037 POSTING SIGNS.
   Every public place where smoking is prohibited by this subchapter shall have
posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking is
prohibited.
(Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 33.038 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be enforced by the Clerk-Treasurer or his or her
designee.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this subchapter
may initiate enforcement with the Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee.
   (C)   The Health Department, Fire Department, or their designees may, while
an establishment is undergoing otherwise mandated inspections, inspect for
compliance with this subchapter.
   (D)   An owner, manager, operator, or employee of an establishment regulated
by this subchapter shall inform persons violating this subchapter of the
appropriate provisions thereof.
(Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 33.039 NON-RETALIATION.
   No person or employers shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any manner
retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment, or customer because
such employee, applicant, or customer exercises any right to a smoke-free
environment afforded by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 33.040 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   This subchapter shall not be interpreted to permit smoking where it is
otherwise restricted by other applicable laws or to supercede any local laws
which are more restrictive.
(Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 33.041 INTERPRETATION OF REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter shall be construed broadly to effectuate the purposes
described in the preamble of the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 33.042 TOWN BUILDINGS AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   No smoking will be permitted in town-owned buildings or vehicles.
   (B)   No smoking will be permitted in buildings or vehicles occupied,
leased, or in use by the town.
(Ord. 1996-4, passed 5-9-1996) Penalty, see §
33.999
USE OF TOWN-OWNED BUILDINGS BY NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
§ 33.055 USE OF TOWN-OWNED BUILDINGS.
   The town will only allow a legally established non-profit organization to
use town-owned buildings and grounds for revenue generating events, non-revenue
generating events, or programs.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 33.056 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION. An organization duly
incorporated as a non-profit and registered as such with the state or otherwise
has been approved as a 501(c)(3) organization by the IRS.
   PROGRAM. An event that is not intended to and is not reasonably expected to
generate profit that has the goal of benefitting the community. A PROGRAM
includes, but is not limited to, an event, game, contest, concert, or other
activity that is either a single to multi-day event or is held on a daily,
weekly, or monthly basis.
   REVENUE GENERATING EVENT. An event that is intended to or may generate
profit without regard to whether or not the event actually does generate a
profit. A REVENUE GENERATING EVENT includes, but is not limited to, any event,
game, contest, concert, or other activity for which a charge is made for the
admission of the general public and which is not held on a daily, weekly, or
monthly basis.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 33.057 APPLICATION FOR USE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   A non-profit organization wishing to use town-owned buildings and
grounds for a revenue generating event, non-revenue generating event, or
program must apply for and receive approval from the town at least 60 days
prior to the date the revenue generating event, non-revenue generating event,
or program is to commence.
   (B)   An application for use of the town-owned buildings and grounds must be
in writing, must specify dates, must indicate the planned use of any profits,
and must include a complete plan of all activities to take place during the
revenue generating event, non-revenue generating event, or program. Completely
executing the application form shall constitute a sufficient written
application.
   (C)   A non-profit organization using town-owned buildings and grounds for
revenue generating events, non-revenue generating events, or programs shall
request and obtain approval from the town for any change in the plans or
activities of the revenue generating event, non-revenue generating event, or
program.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 33.058 SECURITY.
   If the town deems it necessary that security be provided, then security
shall be provided by the non-profit organization. Additionally, a list of the
security personnel names and contact numbers shall be provided by the non-
profit organization to the town for review and approval.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 33.059 SCHEDULE CONFLICTS.
   No previously scheduled activities or events shall be canceled to
accommodate such revenue generating event, non-revenue generating event, or
program.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 33.060 FEES.
   (A)   For use of town-owned buildings and grounds for a non-revenue
generating event or program, the town may charge a non-profit organization a
usage fee of $25. For use of town-owned buildings and grounds for a revenue
generating event, the town shall charge a non-profit organization a minimum
usage fee of $25 and may charge a non-profit organization an additional usage
fee not to exceed 25% of the net profits from the event. These fees shall be
deposited in the town’s Park Fund.
   (B)   For use of town-owned buildings and grounds for a non-revenue
generating event or program, the town may charge a non-profit organization a
utility fee to be determined at the time of approval based upon the type of
activities and events planned.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 33.061 FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   For use of town-owned buildings and grounds for revenue generating events,
non-revenue generating events, or programs, the town shall require the non-
profit organization to furnish a financial report demonstrating net profit and
may require the non-profit to furnish proof of income and proof of expenses for
the revenue generating event, non-revenue generating event, or program within
30 days of the completion of the revenue generating event, non-revenue
generating event, or program or on a monthly basis.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 33.062 INSURANCE.
   A non-profit organization using town-owned buildings and grounds for revenue
generating events, non-revenue generating events, or programs shall provide a
liability insurance policy to be in effect for the duration of the revenue
generating event, non-revenue generating event, or program. Said policy shall
be in an amount not less than $1,000,000 and shall name the town as an
additional insured.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 33.063 RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGE.
   Damage to any building or grounds during revenue generating events, non-
revenue generating events, or programs will be the sole responsibility of the
non-profit organization and shall be immediately repaired at the non-profit
organization’s expense. BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS includes, but is not limited to,
buildings, equipment, turf, trees, fences, fixtures, lights, amphitheater,
shelter houses, pavement, and restrooms. If the non-profit organization fails
to make repair or furnish repair within 30 days, then the town, at its
discretion and option, may perform the repairs or hire a third party to perform
the repairs and bill the non-profit for such work.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 33.064 ACCESS BEFORE EVENT.
   The non-profit organization shall be given access up to one day prior to the
revenue generating event, non-revenue generating event, or program for the
purpose of setting up unless the town-owned buildings or grounds are in use at
that time. The town may grant additional time for set up at the time of
approval.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 33.065 CLEANING AFTER THE EVENT.
   The non-profit organization shall be given two days following the completion
of the revenue generating event, non-revenue generating event, or program to
remove all trash, garbage, portable toilets, booths, tents, stands, platforms,
or other property used and the town-owned buildings and property returned to a
clean and usable state. Should the non-profit organization fail to meet the
requirement set forth above, the town may, at its discretion and option,
perform the necessary cleanup and removal or hire a third party to perform the
necessary cleanup and removal and bill the non-profit organization for such
work.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 33.066 CONTRACT REQUIREMENT.
   All non-profit organizations applying for use of town-owned buildings and
grounds for revenue generating events, non-revenue generating events, or
programs shall execute a contractual agreement which may include, by reference,
all the terms of this policy plus any additional terms.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-20-2015)
INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS
§ 33.175 PURPOSE.
   Establishes guidelines for conducting department administrative
investigations in an orderly and disciplined manner and to assure that fair and
impartial investigatory procedures are adhered.
(Ord. passed 9-4-1991)
§ 33.176 POLICY.
   It shall be the policy and responsibility of the Town Marshal’s office to
investigate actions which may blemish the public trust rendered unto the Town
Marshal’s office in order to fulfill each of these responsibilities. The
administrative investigations are to be conducted according to the following
procedure.
(Ord. passed 9-4-1991)
§ 33.177 INTERNAL INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The complete interview of all departmental members shall be recorded
mechanically or by a stenographer. There will be no “off the record” questions.
All recesses called during the questioning shall be noted in the record. The
requirement to record may be waived by mutual agreement.
   (B)   The interview shall take place at a location designated by the
investigating officer and when feasible in the Town Hall. The interview shall
be at a reasonable hour, preferably when the member is on duty, unless the
exigencies of the investigation dictate alternate procedure. A department
member’s tour of duty may be changed without penalty in order to comply with
this division (B). If such interview occurs during off-duty time of the member
being interviewed, the member shall be compensated for his or her off-duty time
in accordance with regular department procedures.
   (C)   All members of the department who are interviewed in an administrative
investigation shall be informed of the rank of the officers who are conducting
the interview and the identity of all persons present during the interview. All
members of the department who are being interviewed in relation to an
administration investigation shall be informed of the nature of the
investigation before any interview commences. Sufficient information to
reasonably apprise the members of the allegations should be provided. If it is
known that a member of the department being interviewed is a witness only, he
or she shall be so informed.
   (D)   Administrative investigation interviews shall be completed within
reasonable time limits and such respites as necessary shall be allowed. Time
shall be provided for personal necessities, meals, telephone calls, and rest
periods as are reasonably required.
   (E)   Department members shall not be subjected to offensive language nor
shall they be threatened with dismissal or other disciplinary punishment. No
promise of reward shall be made as an inducement to answering questions,
nothing herein is to be construed as to prohibit the investigating officers
from informing the member that his or her conduct can become the subject of
disciplinary action should he or she refuse to obey a lawful order. The
department member shall be asked questions by and through not more than two
investigators.
   (F)   When the department member is to be interviewed concerning an alleged
violation of departmental rules and regulations which if proven, could result
in his or her dismissal from the service or the infliction of other
disciplinary punishment upon him or her, he or she shall be afforded a
reasonable opportunity and facilities to contact and consult privately with an
attorney of his or her own choosing. Expenses incurred as a result of a
department member choosing to be represented by counsel of his or her own
choosing shall be paid for by the department member so requesting the attorney.
An attorney of his or her own choosing may be present during the interview but
may not participate in the interview except to counsel the member. In such
cases, following the notification of interview, the interview may not be
postponed more than three working days for the purpose of obtaining counsel.
   (G)   If a department member is under arrest or is likely to be arrested
when he or she is a suspect or a target of a criminal investigation, he or she
shall be advised of his or her constitutional rights. department members shall
be given an exact copy of any written statement they may execute.
   (H)   The refusal of a department member to answer pertinent questions
concerning any matter may result in disciplinary action if the questions are
specifically and narrowly related to his or her duties of fitness for office.
   (I)   No department member shall be ordered or asked to submit to a
polygraph (lie detector test), blood test, breathalyzer test, and/or other test
or procedure which would violate his or her rights under the Constitution of
the United States or the Constitution of the State of Indiana.
      (1)   Such test may be given if requested by the department member and
the results of such test may be used in relation to subsequent departmental or
criminal charges.
      (2)   The procedural requirements spelled out in this division (I) are
not applicable in circumstances relating to ordinary supervisory inquiries into
the official duties, fitness for office, or responsibilities of the Town
Marshal’s office.
      (3)   No member of the department shall be compelled to submit to the
polygraph examination, on a complaint, without corroborating evidence in the
noncriminal matter, unless the complaining party is requested and submits to a
polygraph examination before hand. Should the complainant refuse or fail the
examination, the member will not be asked or compelled to submit to the
examination. If the complaining party passes the examination showing truth in
his or her complaint, or if there is sufficient corroborating evidence, the
Marshal may order the member to submit to the examination. Failure to comply
can become the basis for termination for insubordination.
      (4)   In criminal matters under investigation, the member shall be
advised of his or her right to accept or reject the polygraph examination.
Should the member elect to refuse the examination, he or she may be ordered to
take the examination by the Marshal as an aid in the administrative
investigation. Failure to submit may be cause for disciplinary action. The
member will be informed that the refusal to submit to the polygraph cannot and
will not be used against him or her in a criminal court of law. Should the
member waive his or her rights and elect to take the polygraph examination and
agree the results may be used, he or she shall be informed that the results of
the polygraph examination may be used by the department in both administrative
and criminal actions.
      (5)   In criminal investigations, when a member refuses to submit to a
polygraph examination, after being ordered to do so by the Marshal,
disciplinary action may be suspended, unless the member is under arrest, until
the final court disposition of the matter, or the member may be terminated for
insubordination. The disposition of the disciplinary action against the member,
if any, shall rest with the Marshal. This disciplinary action can be up to ten
days. Any action over ten days requires the approval of the Town Council.
   (J)   A department member who has been accused or has been the subject of an
investigation or allegation shall be informed in writing when the investigation
is complete. And the determination of such investigation shall be placed in the
internal investigation file. The department member shall read and be allowed to
sign and date, any document having reference to the results and/or disposition
of an investigation, prior to its being placed in the member’s file.
   (K)   Any disciplined member has the right of appeal available to employees
under I.C. 36-8-3-4.
   (L)   This document shall not be construed to supercede, in part or in
whole, any Town Marshal’s rules or regulations or any section of Rules and
Regulations for the Town Marshal’s office.
   (M)   In the event that any section, division, or other portion of this
subchapter should be found to be unconstitutional, illegal, or otherwise
invalid, the remainder of the document shall continue in full force and effect.
   (N)   All administrative investigations are confidential and employees shall
not divulge to any source the nature of the investigation. The accused or
subject of the investigation can divulge to legal counsel information related
to the investigation. All inquiries related to any administrative investigation
shall be directed to the office the Town Marshal.
   (O)   All inquiries to any officer(s) making the internal investigation
shall be answered in the following text: The Town Marshal’s office has
conducted (is presently conducting) an investigation of allegations related to
misconduct of their personnel. All information developed in the investigation
was (will be) adjudicated in the personnel procedures of the department. Since
these are departmental personnel matters, no further statements will be made.
(Ord. passed 9-4-1991)
CAPITAL ASSET MANAGEMENT POLICY
§ 33.185 POLICY.
   (A)   The Town of Hanover Capital Asset Management Policy (“policy”), a copy
of which is attached to Resolution 2022-2 and made a part hereof, is adopted,
effective March 15, 2022.
   (B)   The policy adopted herein supersedes and replaces any prior policy,
resolution, ordinance or other document that may contradict any term herein or
in the policy.
(Res. 2022-2, passed 3-15-2022)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by
the provisions of §§
33.035 to
33.041 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine of $50.
      (2)   (a)   A person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a
public place and who fails to comply with the provisions of §§
33.035 to
33.041 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
            1.   A fine of $100 for a first violation;
            2.   A fine of $200 for a second violation within one year; and
            3.   A fine of $500 for each additional violation within one year.
         (b)   Each day on which a violation of §§
33.035 to
33.041 occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 2013-16, passed 7-2-2013)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES
Section
Policies
   
34.01   Authority to write off fees
   
34.02   Use of credit cards
   
34.03   Prior approval for large expenses
   
34.04   Fixed asset capitalization policy
   
34.05   Paying expenses
   
34.06   Purchasing agents
   
34.07   Purchasing regulations
   
34.08   Clerk-Treasurer authorized to invest money on behalf of town
Funds
   
34.20   Community Development Block Grant - Housing Rehabilitation
   
34.21   Hanover Fest Fund
   
34.22   Community Crossing Matching Grant Fund
   
34.23   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
34.24   Water Tower Maintenance Fund
   
34.25   Sewage Project 2003 Fund
   
34.26   Riverboat Fund
   
34.27   Donations and Miscellaneous Income Fund
   
34.28   Levy Excess Fund
   
34.29   Police Department Reserve Officers’ Donation Fund
   
34.30   COVID-19 Fund
   
34.31   Park and Recreation Special Non-Reverting General Fund
   
34.32   Park and Recreation Special Non-Reverting Capital Fund
   
34.33   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
34.34   Bethany Legacy Fund
   
34.35   Local Income Tax - Public Safety Fund
POLICIES
§ 34.01 AUTHORITY TO WRITE OFF FEES.
   The Town Council is authorized to write off a fee or penalty for services
rendered by the sewage works provided that said fee or penalty:
   (A)   Has been past due for at least six months;
   (B)   Has been declared uncollectable after six attempts to collect either
by invoice or collection letter to the customer; and
   (C)   The amount of the fee or penalty is less than $200.
(Ord. 2017-19, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 34.02 USE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to secure and maintain one or
more credit cards in the name of the town for use by properly authorized town
representatives in carrying out the business of the town and to pay a
reasonable annual fee if to do so is determined to be in the town’s best
interests. The Clerk-Treasurer shall sign all credit applications and credit
agreements for all credit cards.
   (B)   Purchases may be made with the credit card by any Town Department
including the Police Department and its officers, the Clerk-Treasurer, or
department heads. Purchases may be made by other town employees or officers if
authorized in advance by a resolution of the Town Council.
   (C)   Each credit card obtained will be used by that department, town
representative, or employee for the reasonable cost of goods and services
incurred in the performance of official duties and functions of the town. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain an accounting system or log which shall include
the name(s) of individual(s) requesting usage of the cards, their position,
estimated amounts to be charged (at the time the card is issued), the line item
of the fund(s)/account(s) from which the purchase is to be paid, and the date
the card is issued and returned.
   (D)   When the purpose for which a credit card has been issued has been
accomplished, the card shall be immediately returned to the custody of the
department head or Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Within 72 hours of the purchase, the person using the credit card
shall provide the Clerk-Treasurer with a copy of the credit card receipt with
written particulars of the purpose of the purchase, including an itemized list
of all charges incurred and whether those are paid from different budgeted line
items.
   (F)   (1)   No credit card issued to the town shall be used for a private or
other non-town purchase. Inappropriate use of any town credit card shall be
reported to the Clerk-Treasurer and the Town Council, and appropriate
discipline shall be taken by the Town Council against any card user who
improperly uses a town credit card.
      (2)   Improperly documented charges or those charges shown to be
unnecessary in carrying out the town’s business and any finance charges
resulting from the use of the card shall be the responsibility of the person
making the improper charge and subject to collection as any other town claim.
   (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer may require the employee or responsible town
officer to complete a purchase order form if necessary to encumber the
appropriate fund and track appropriations and to monitor the town’s accounting
system.
   (H)   Payment should not be made on the basis of a statement or a credit
card slip only. The employee returning the card must provide the same
information required for any other claim. Supporting documents such as paid
bills and receipts must be provided to the Clerk-Treasurer when available.
Additionally, any interest or penalty incurred due to late filing or furnishing
of available documentation by an officer or employee shall be the
responsibility of that officer or employee.
   (I)   If a charge was properly authorized and documented, the Clerk-
Treasurer may pay the charges, including interest and the annual fee for the
card(s).
(Ord. 2013-15, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 34.03 PRIOR APPROVAL FOR LARGE EXPENSES.
   (A)    No department head or employee of the town shall expend or authorize
to be spent $3,000 or more on the purchase of any item for the town without
prior approval from the Town Council.
   (B)   This section shall apply to appropriated as well as unappropriated
expenditures.
   (C)   Any office holder or department head is authorized to take whatever
action is necessary to deal with an emergency with respect to the essential
functions of the town.
(Ord. 2011-9, passed 11-15-2011; Ord. 2020-5, passed 5-5-2020)
§ 34.04 FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvement of buildings, structures, of other fixed assets;
and equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of
usefulness. These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or additions
to the government’s general fixed assets.
      ENTERPRISE FUNDS. Those funds used to account for operations that are
financed and operated in a manner similar to private business enterprise where
the intent of the governing body is that the costs (expenses, including
depreciation) of providing goods or services to the general public on a
continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily through user charges; or
where the governing body has decided that periodic determination of revenues
earned, expenses incurred, and/or net income is appropriate for capital
maintenance, public policy, management control, accountability, and other
purposes. The ENTERPRISE FUND of the town shall include the municipally owned
water and sewage utilities. Operation of these utilizes shall require
ENTERPRISE FUND accounting and reporting.
      FIXED ASSET. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the
operating activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are
needed for the production or sale of goods or services are termed property,
plant and equipment, or FIXED ASSETS. These assets are not held for sale in the
ordinary course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (e.g., land, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture, and
fixtures).
      HISTORICAL COSTS. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or
services at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment, and most
inventories are common examples of items recognized under the HISTORICAL COST
attribute.
      TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the
physical senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard
and smelled.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Land.
         (a)   This town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of
cost.
         (b)   Exceptions to land capitalization are land purchased outright,
as easements, or rights-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructures
are roads and streets, street lighting systems, bridges, overpasses sidewalks,
curbs, parking meters, street signs, viaducts, wharfs, and stormwater
collection.
         (c)   Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocations, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work and opinion), appraisal and negotiate fees, surveying,
and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose (including
contractors and/or city workers (salary and benefits), such as demolishing
buildings, excavating, clean up, and/or inspection.
         (d)   A department will record donated land at fair market value on
the date of transfer plus any associated costs.
         (e)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      (2)   Machinery and equipment.
         (a)   The definition of MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT is an apparatus, tool,
or conglomeration of pieces to form a tool. The tool will stand alone, and not
become a part of a basic structure or building. The town will capitalize and
tag items with an individual value equal to or greater than $1,000. Machinery
combined with other machinery to form one unit with a total value greater than
the above mentioned limit will be one unit.
         (b)   Shipping charges, consultant fees, and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, delivery, or set up, (including contractors and/
or town works salary and benefits) which make such equipment operable for its
intended purpose will be capitalized.
         (c)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment
will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
            1.   Total costs exceed $1,000;
            2.   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
            3.   The total costs will be greater than the current book value,
and less than the fair market value. Examples include: a work truck being
equipped with screens, lights, or radios for use as a single unit throughout
its life expectancy is considered one unit.
         (d)   If police cars are constantly changing light bars or radios to
other vehicles, the town will capitalize each piece of equipment separately, if
it meets the required dollar amount.
         (e)   A department’s computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard, and printer) is
considered one unit.
         (f)   A department will record donated machinery and equipment at fair
market value on the date of transfer with any associated costs.
         (g)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      (3)   Buildings.
         (a)   A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
roofs, heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting, or sprinkler systems, or any part
of the basic building. The department will include the costs of items designed
or purchased exclusively for the building.
         (b)   A department’s new building will be capitalized only if it meets
the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
            2.   The useful life is greater than two years.
         (c)   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize the costs only if the result meets all of the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
            2.   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
            3.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
         (d)   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest cost
(while under construction), accounting costs if material, and any costs
directly attributable to the construction of a building.
         (e)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value
on the date of transfer with any associated costs.
         (f)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      (4)   Improvements other than buildings.
         (a)   The definition of this group is improvements to land for better
enjoyment, attached or not easily removed, and will have a life expectancy of
greater than two years.
         (b)   Examples are walks, parking areas and drives, golf cart paths,
fencing, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, planter underground
sprinkler systems, and other similar items.
         (c)   Improvements do not include roads, streets, or assets that are
of value only to the public. For example, Main Street is a public street with
greatest value to the public. Roads or drives upon town-owned land that
provides support of our facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the road for
public enjoyment is an infrastructure improvement and is not capitalized.
However, sidewalks installed upon town-owned land for use by the public and for
the support of the town’s facility are capital assets.
         (d)   The town will capitalize new improvements other than buildings
only if it meets the following conditions:
            1.   The total costs exceed $5,000; and
            2.   The useful life is greater than two years.
         (e)   A department will capitalize improvements or renovations to
existing improvements other than building only if the real estate meets the
following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceed $5,000;
            2.   The asset’s useful life is extended two or more years; and
            3.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
         (f)   A department’s donated improvements other than buildings will be
recorded at fair market value on the date of transfer with any associated
costs.
         (g)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   (C)   Recording and accounting.
      (1)   The town and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was
made in accordance with the chart of accounts of the cities and towns
accounting manuals. The cost of property, plant, and equipment includes all
expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the town, the valuation of assets shall
be based on historical cost or where the historical cost is indeterminable by
estimation for those assets in existence. Assets may be acquired under a number
of other arrangements including:
         (a)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase price;
         (b)   Purchase on deferred payment contract;
         (c)   Acquisition under capital lease;
         (d)   Acquisition by exchange of nonmonetary assets;
         (e)   Acquisition by issuance of securities;
         (f)   Acquisition by self construction; and
         (g)   Acquisition by donation or discovery.
      (2)   Some of these arrangements present special problems relating to the
cost to be recorded, for example in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has long been recognized as a part of the asset cost.
Reference to an intermediate accounting manual will illustrate the recording of
acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition arrangements.
      (3)   In addition, an asset register (prescribed form 211) shall be
maintained to provide a detailed record of the capital assets of the
governmental unit.
   (D)   Safeguarding of assets. Be it ordained that accounting controls be
designed and implemented to provide reasonable assurances that:
      (1)   Capital expenditures made by the town be in accordance with
management’s authorization as documented in the minutes;
      (2)   Transactions of the utilities be recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
principles;
      (3)   Adequate detailed records be maintained to assure accountability
for town-owned assets;
      (4)   Access to assets be permitted in accordance with management’s
authorization; and
      (5)   The recorded accountability for assets be compared with the
existing assets at least every two years and appropriate action be taken with
respect to any differences.
(Ord. 2003-12, passed 7-21-2003)
§ 34.05 PAYING EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer, with the prior written approval of the Council
having jurisdiction over the allowance of claims, may pay the following claims
in advance of Council allowance:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Dues;
      (13)   Telephone bills;
      (14)   Postage for certified letters, billings, and the like;
      (15)   Automobile gas bills from the county; and
      (16)   Instructors (park sponsored programs).
   (B)   The Town Council, having jurisdiction over the allowance of the claim,
shall review and allow the claim at its next regular or special meeting
following the preapproved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 3-6-2000)
§ 34.06 PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby determines that it is the purchasing agency
for the town.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby designates the following persons to serve as
purchasing agents for the town:
      (1)   Each town elected official; and
      (2)   Such other town employees as are designated from time to time, in
writing by the purchasing agency.
(Ord. 1998-24, passed 9-23-1998)
§ 34.07 PURCHASING REGULATIONS.
   The following are the required purchasing rules for town in supplementation
of the Act (I.C. 5-22-1-1 et seq.).
   (A)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town purchases and
shall be purchased unless the town determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (B)   Publication of notices.
      (1)   Invitation for bids. All notices of invitation for bids shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Madison Courier and Weekly
Herald. The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be
opened.
      (2)   Request for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall
be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Madison Courier. The
purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the proposals will
be opened.
      (3)   Request for specifications. All notices of request for
specifications shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Madison
Courier and Weekly Herald. The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication
of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission
of proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart.
The second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposals will be opened.
      (4)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals, or request for
specifications is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
   (C)   Receiving offers.
      (1)   Opening of offers. Bids received in response to an invitation for
bids must be opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses
at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. Proposals received
in response to a request for proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure
of the contents to competing offerors during the process of negotiation.
Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may be opened as
specified in the request for specifications.
      (2)   Electronic receipt of offers. The purchasing agency may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals,
or request for specifications. A purchasing agent may only receive an
electronic offer if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The purchasing agent receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
      (3)   Correction and withdrawal of bids. An offeror may correct
inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time at which bids will be opened by
supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting a revised bid. A bidder may not
supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after the time at which the bids were
opened. A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which the bids were opened.
      (4)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town’s best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedures for cancellation.
   (D)   Small purchases. The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an
estimated cost of less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or
receiving quotes.
   (E)   This section is in supplementation of the Act (I.C. 5-22) which
establishes whether a purchase can be made by competitive bid, proposal, quote,
request for specifications, or special purchase.
(Ord. 1998-25, passed 9-23-1998)
§ 34.08 CLERK-TREASURER AUTHORIZED TO INVEST MONEY ON BEHALF OF TOWN.
   The town has authorized the Clerk-Treasurer of the town to make investments
of the town’s money pursuant to I.C. 36-5-6-6.
(Res. 4-2019, passed - - )
FUNDS
§ 34.20 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT - HOUSING REHABILITATION.
   (A)   A fund is established for the deposit of monies from the Community
Development Block Grant Funds.
   (B)   Said account shall be named the Community Development Block Grant -
Housing Rehabilitation and all monies contained in said Fund shall be expended
for the purpose of minor rehabilitee of owner occupied homes. The following
revenue number is designated: Grant revenue: 279990.000. Said Fund will consist
of the following appropriations:
      (1)   Rehabilitation: 279000230.000;
      (2)   Program delivery: 279000325.000;
      (3)   LEAD: 279000310.000;
      (4)   Administration: 279000311.000; and
      (5)   Environmental review: 279000312.000.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be authorized to expend monies from said
Fund within five days after receipt from the state, in accordance with Ord.
2000-3.
   (D)   Said Fund shall be non-reverting and exist perpetually unless
terminated by a subsequent ordinance enacted by the Town Council.
   (E)   If said account is terminated by a subsequent ordinance enacted by the
Town Council, the remaining balance of the terminated account shall revert to
the state’s Department of Transportation or the source of the community
development block grant.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 34.21 HANOVER FEST FUND.
   (A)   An account is established for the deposit of monies for the planning,
organizing, and hosting of Hanover Fest.
   (B)   Said account shall be named the Hanover Fest Fund and all funds
contained in said account shall be expended only for the limited and exclusive
purpose of financing the planning, organizing, and hosting of Hanover Fest.
   (C)   The approval of the town shall be obtained prior to the expenditure of
funds from said account.
   (D)   Said account shall be non-reverting and exist perpetually unless
terminated by a subsequent ordinance enacted by the Town Council.
   (E)   If said account is terminated by a subsequent ordinance enacted by the
Town Council, the remaining balance of the terminated account shall revert to
the Hanover Park Donation Fund and its successors or assigns. If no successor
to the Hanover Park Donation Fund exists, the remaining funds shall revert to
the town’s Park Fund or the general budget of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 7-20-2017)
§ 34.22 COMMUNITY CROSSING MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   (A)   A new non-reverting fund to be known as “the Community Crossing
Matching Grant Fund” and given fund number 258 is now established. The Fund
shall receive monies from the Community Crossing Local Road and Bridge Matching
Grant Fund through the state’s Department of Transportation as well as local
match funds transferred from the state’s LOIT Special Distribution Fund
earmarked for local road improvements and from the Rainy Day Restricted Motor
Vehicle Highway Fund, Rainy Day Restricted Local Road, and Street Fund of the
town all earmarked for local road improvements.
   (B)   Expenditures of the Community Crossing Matching Grant Fund shall be
used for the purposes of engineering, land acquisition, construction,
resurfacing, maintenance, restoration, or rehabilitation of the local road and
street system.
   (C)   The Community Crossing Matching Grant Fund shall expire when repealed
by ordinance.
   (D)   Upon termination of the Community Crossing Match Fund, any remaining
cash balance shall be transferred to the town’s Local Road and Street Fund with
all said transfer being set aside for the sole purpose of resurfacing.
(Ord. 2016-18, passed 12-27-2016)
§ 34.23 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council determines that need now exists for the
reestablishment of a Cumulative Capital Development Fund for the following
purposes: for all uses as set out in I.C. 36-9-15.5.
   (B)   The Town Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5. The
proposed Fund will not exceed $0.05 on each $100 of assessed valuation. Said
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2023 payable 2024.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-30-2016; Ord. 2023-9, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 34.24 WATER TOWER MAINTENANCE FUND.
   There is hereby established in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Water
Tower Maintenance Fund. The Water Tower Maintenance Fund will receive funds
designated by the Town Council for deposit into this Fund. Funds in the Water
Tower Maintenance Fund shall be used exclusively to defray the expenses of
periodic inspection, cleaning, painting, and other maintenance of the town’s
water tower.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 34.25 SEWAGE PROJECT 2003 FUND.
   There is hereby established in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Sewage
Project 2003 Fund. All funds received from the Department of Commerce for use
on the Sewage Project 2003 shall be deposited into this Fund. Monies in the
Sewage Project 2003 Fund shall be used exclusively for the Sewage Project.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 2-16-2004)
§ 34.26 RIVERBOAT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established by the town a fund designated
as “the Riverboat Fund”.
   (B)   This Fund shall be maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer as a non-
reverting fund.
   (C)   Monies received by the town pursuant to I.C. 4-33-13-5(e) shall be
deposited into this Fund. The Town Council can designate other monies to be
deposited into this Fund.
   (D)   Money in the Wagering Tax Revenue Sharing Fund may be used for any
purpose specified in I.C. 4-33-13-5(f).
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 2-3-2004; Ord. 2004-3, passed 2-16-2004)
§ 34.27 DONATIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS INCOME FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, a
Donations and Miscellaneous Income Fund. Funds received as donations to the
town, franchisee fees, payments for leases of town property, and all other
miscellaneous income as determined by the Clerk-Treasurer or the Town Council
shall be deposited in this Fund. The town and the Town Council is authorized to
accept gifts and contributions to this Fund.
   (B)   The monies in this Fund may be appropriated or transferred to any
other Fund by the Town Council. This is designated as non-reverting fund since
it is not anticipated that tax revenue will be deposited in this Fund.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 34.28 LEVY EXCESS FUND.
   There is hereby established in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Levy
Excess Fund. These funds are to be taken from the tax draw for General, Park
and Recreation, and Cumulative Capital Development Funds. The action occurs
when the town receives tax levy in excess of what it is supposed to; therefore,
the money is set aside in this Fund and in the following year. When this is
taken from the tax draw, the money is transferred from the Levy Excess Fund to
the appropriate funds.
(Ord. 2002-14, passed 10-28-2002)
§ 34.29 POLICE DEPARTMENT RESERVE OFFICERS’ DONATION FUND.
   There is hereby established in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, the town’s
Police Department Reserve Officers’ Donation Fund. All funds received from any
source for the town’s Police Department Reserve Officers’ Donation Fund shall
be deposited into this Fund. The town is authorized to accept gifts or
contributions to this Fund. Funds in the town’s Police Department Reserve
Officers’ Donation Fund shall be used exclusively for training and equipping
the town’s Police Department reserve officers. This shall be a non-reverting
fund. Expenditures for this Fund shall be recommended by the Marshal or the
Commander of the Reserves.
(Ord. 2001-4, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 34.30 COVID-19 FUND.
   (A)   A fund is established for the deposit of monies from the COVID-19
Funds.
   (B)   Said account shall be named the COVID-19 Fund, and all monies
contained in said fund shall be expended in accordance with the directives from
the State of Indiana, federal government and Congress. The following fund
number is designated: COVID-19: 150.000.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be authorized to expend and disburse monies
from said fund in accordance with directives from the State of Indiana, federal
government and Congress.
   (D)   Said fund shall be non-reverting and exist perpetually unless
terminated by a subsequent ordinance enacted by the Hanover Town Council.
(Ord. 2020-14, passed 9-1-2020)
§ 34.31 PARK AND RECREATION SPECIAL NON-REVERTING GENERAL FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Park and Recreation Special Non-Reverting
General Fund. The following fund number is designated: Park Non-Reverting
Operating: 211.
   (B)   Said fund shall be used at the discretion of the Town Board of Parks
and Recreation solely for operating the program.
   (C)   Said fund is to be kept by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
   (D)   Said fund shall be non-reverting and exist perpetually unless
terminated by a subsequent ordinance enacted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 34.32 PARK AND RECREATION SPECIAL NON-REVERTING CAPITAL FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Park and Recreation Special Non-Reverting
Capital Fund. The following fund number is designated: Park Non-Reverting
Capital Fund: 403.
   (B)   Said fund shall be used at the discretion of the Town Board of Parks
and Recreation solely for capital improvements to the park facilities.
   (C)   Said fund is to be kept by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
   (D)   Said fund shall be non-reverting and exist perpetually unless
terminated by a subsequent ordinance enacted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 34.33 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby established a fund to be known as
the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
   (B)   Sources of funding. The source of funding includes monies allocated to
the town from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and distributed to the town
in 2021 and 2022.
   (C)   Uses of funding.
      (1)   The town shall only appropriate and use the funds to cover costs
incurred by the town by December 31, 2024 for the following:
         (a)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
         (b)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the
COVID-19 public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers
of the town that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
         (c)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the town
prior to the emergency, that being 2019; or
         (d)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure.
      (2)   The Town Council shall adopt a plan which provides details for the
use of funds.
   (D)   Amendments. This section may be amended from time to time if
additional guidance is received from any federal or state agency.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to take the necessary steps to
effectuate this section upon its passage.
   (F)   The ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund shall exist until
terminated by ordinance of the Town Council. Moneys from this fund may not be
transferred to another fund of the town.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 34.34 BETHANY LEGACY FUND.
   (A)   A fund is established for the deposit of monies from Bethany Legacy
Foundation.
   (B)   Said account shall be named the Bethany Legacy Fund and all monies
contained in said Fund shall be expended in accordance with the directives from
Bethany Legacy Foundation for the completion of several projects at the Hanover
Town Park as specified in the grant agreement and grant application submitted.
The following fund number is designated: Bethany Legacy Foundation Fund: 2303.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be authorized to expend and disburse monies
from said Fund in accordance with directives herein and in accordance with the
state and any other relevant laws.
   (D)   Said fund shall be non-reverting and exist perpetually unless
terminated by a subsequent ordinance enacted by the Hanover Town Council.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 34.35 LOCAL INCOME TAX - PUBLIC SAFETY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of fund. The town hereby creates and establishes a special
fund known as the Local Income Tax - Public Safety Fund (Fund 2240) into which
all monies in the form of public safety LIT distributions shall be deposited.
   (B)   Purpose of fund. The primary purpose of the fund is to accurately
track the receipts of the public safety local income tax and the disbursements
of the fund for public safety purposes.
   (C)   Responsibility of fund. The Town Fiscal Officer shall be responsible
for the deposits and disbursements of the fund and shall keep records as to the
disbursements, receipts, and current balance in such fund at all times.
   (D)   Deposit of funds. Upon receipt of the public safety distribution of
local income taxes, the Town Fiscal Officer shall immediately deposit all
receipts into the Local Income Tax - Public Safety Fund.
   (E)   Disbursement of funds. The Town Fiscal Officer is directed to only
disburse funds from the Local Income Tax - Public Safety Fund created hereunder
upon a receipt of a claim approved by the Town Council.
   (F)   Limitation on the use of funds. Any funds placed in the Local Income
Tax - Public Safety Fund may not be withdrawn except for the purposes for which
the fund was created.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 8-20-2024)
CHAPTER 35: ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU
Section
   
35.01   Established
   
35.02   Representatives and authority
   
35.03   Right to trial; waiver
   
35.04   Prosecution for violation
   
35.05   Record keeping
   
35.06   Clerk-Treasurer to accept documents concerning violation
   
35.07   Court costs and the like
   
35.08   Additional penalties
   
35.09   Fee schedule
   
35.10   Multiple violations
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established an Ordinance Violations Bureau for the town. The
Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall henceforward serve as the Violations
Clerk, in which capacity he or she shall administer the Bureau.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 35.02 REPRESENTATIVES AND AUTHORITY.
   The Town Marshal, deputy marshals, special deputy, reserve police officers,
Building Inspector, and Code Enforcement Officer shall hereby all be duly
authorized to issue uniform notices of violation (“tickets”) upon having good
cause to believe that a violation of one of the ordinances listed herein has
occurred.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-7-2005; Ord. 2023-6, passed 2-7-2023)
§ 35.03 RIGHT TO TRIAL; WAIVER.
   Any person, having been served with such a ticket and thereby charged with
an ordinance violation, is entitled to a trial before a court as provided by
law; if, however, such a person waives the right to trial, enters an admission
of the violation with the Ordinance Violations Bureau, and pays civil penalties
in the amount(s) and for the violation(s) hereinafter listed, then the
violation shall be resolved. A record of the resolved violation will be kept in
the files of the town’s Police Department for a period of three years, and will
be subject to disclosure, upon request from appropriate law enforcement
authorities, for that period of time.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 35.04 PROSECUTION FOR VIOLATION.
   If a person issued a notice of violation of a town municipal ordinance
denies said violation, then the attorney employed by the town shall prosecute
the ordinance violation in a court of appropriate jurisdiction of the county.
An ordinance violation is a civil infraction which is to be proven by a
preponderance of the evidence. A finding of responsibility for violation of a
municipal ordinance is subject to court costs and monetary penalties as
prescribed by the ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 35.05 RECORD KEEPING.
   If a person charged with an ordinance violation performs the actions listed
in §
35.03 and pays an additional “diversion fee” equal to the amount of the civil
penalty therein referred to, then the violation will be kept in the files of
the town’s Police Department for a period of only one year, and will not be
disclosed to other authorities during that time. However, notwithstanding the
foregoing, if the person in question enters an admission of another instance of
the same violation, or is found guilty of such an additional violation by a
court as provided by law, during the aforementioned one-year period, then both
violations shall be entered as admissions and kept on record for three years
and shall be subject to disclosure as described in §
35.03.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 35.06 CLERK-TREASURER TO ACCEPT DOCUMENTS CONCERNING VIOLATION.
   The Violations Clerk and the Clerk-Treasurer’s staff shall accept written
appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations, and payments of civil
penalties as herein described, such payments to be deposited in the General
Fund of the town and accounted for as provided by law.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 35.07 COURT COSTS AND THE LIKE.
   In the event that the town prevails in any litigation instituted by the town
in order to enforce ordinances hereinafter referenced, the town is entitled to
recover, in addition to any fine(s) imposed, court costs and costs of
litigation, including reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 35.08 ADDITIONAL PENALTIES.
   This chapter provides penalties which are additional and alternative to
previously enacted penalties for ordinance violations. The town may proceed
under the penalty schedule hereinafter set forth or under previously enacted
ordinances. Future ordinances may include a provision for a penalty payable to
resolve violations through the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 35.09 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following schedule of ordinances shall be subject to the
jurisdiction of the Ordinance Violations Bureau, with violations of each said
ordinance being subject to the civil penalty there set forth.
   (B)   If two penalties are listed in the schedule for a given violation, the
first-listed shall be imposed if there is no other (adjudicated or admitted)
instance of the same violation by the same person currently recorded in the
files of the town’s Police Department; otherwise, the second-listed penalty
will be imposed.
Ordinance Description of Violation Fine
Ordinance Description of Violation                                   Fine
1977-5    Possession of alcoholic beverages in park                  $25/$100
1979-2    Being in park at night                                     $20/$50
1981-3    Parking where prohibited                                   $25
1985-1    Improperly drawing water from town system                  $100
1984-2    Peddling without registration                              $50
1992-9    Maintaining unsafe building                                $100
          Littering in public places                                 $25/550
          Accumulating litter on private property                    $25
1993-6    Littering from vehicles                                    $25/$50
          Discharging yard waste into streets, gutters, and the like $25/$50
          Tampering with litter receptacles                          $25
1993-9    Violations of floodplain regulations                       $250
1993-22   Scavenging recyclables put out for collection              $25
          Maintaining dangerous trees, stacks, and the like near     $25
          public street
1994-6    Accumulating rubbish on private property                   $25
          Allowing excessive growth of grass or weeds                $25
          Obstructing or damaging sidewalks, drainage, and the like  $25
          with trees or shrubbery
1996-2    Abusing or failing to restrain animals                     $25
          Blocking public ways                                       $25
1999-18   Affecting the orderly appearance of public ways            $25
          Using public ways for private or business purposes         $25
1999-22   Abandoning vehicles                                        $25
2002-10   Open burning                                               $25
          Tampering with or damaging sewer system                    $250
2002-19   Using sewer system after receiving notice to stop          $50
          Being connected to sewer system without authorization      $100
 
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 35.10 MULTIPLE VIOLATIONS.
   Violations which persist for more than one day may be considered as a series
of separate violations, one for each calendar day of their persistence,
beginning on the day when the first notice of violation (“ticket”) is issued
therefor.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-7-2005)
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL POLICY AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
36.01   Incorporated by reference
§ 36.01 INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The Employee Manual of the Town of Hanover, Indiana, is hereby incorporated
by reference as if set forth in full herein. The full employee manual can be
accessed on the town website with the following link, https://
www.townofhanover.net/town-services/pages/ordinance-personnel-policy.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2015)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   TRASH AND RECYCLABLES
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: TRASH AND RECYCLABLES
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Establishment of service
   
50.03   Trash collection services to be provided
   
50.04   Authorized containers
   
50.05   Requirements for trash collection pickup
   
50.06   Limitations on trash eligible for collection
   
50.07   Extra garbage bags
   
50.08   Fees
   
50.09   Delinquency fee
   
50.10   Fund for revenues
   
50.11   Bulky item collection services
   
50.12   Recyclables collection services
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECYCLABLES. Newsprint, aluminum beverage cans, bi-metal, and ferrous cans,
Category #1 (polyethyl terephthalate) plastic containers, Category #2 (high
density polyethylene) plastic containers, and glass containers.
   TRASH. Ordinary household waste and garbage, including putrescible and
nonputrescible solid and semi-solid items of waste except for:
      (1)   Human and animal body waste;
      (2)   Liquids;
      (3)   Liquid or water carried wastes which are normally disposed of in
sanitary sewer systems;
      (4)   Hazardous waste;
      (5)   Building materials;
      (6)   Appliances, furniture, household fixtures and/or any other similar
bulky items; and
      (7)   Lead acid batteries.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2023-10, passed - -2023)
§ 50.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Town Council has assumed the authority for the collection of
residential trash and recyclables, as defined above, and provides a trash and
recyclables collection service solely for the benefit of, and shall be used
solely by, the residents of the town. The Council shall provide the service
through the use of interlocal agreements, contracts, licensing, franchise
agreements or any method it may deem necessary to ensure that quality service
is provided to the town’s residents.
   (B)   Prior to awarding any contracts for trash collection under this
section, the town shall assure that competitive bids are obtained. Contracts
shall be re-bid periodically to assure competition for providing trash and
recyclables collection services hereunder. The town reserves the right to award
exclusive franchises for trash and recyclables collection services. No entity
shall contract for general curbside trash and/or recyclables collection service
in the town without prior approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2023-10, passed - -2023)
§ 50.03 TRASH COLLECTION SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED.
   The town, acting through the Town Council, and in cooperation with the
Southeastern Indiana Solid Waste District, Madison, Indiana, shall provide a
curbside or roadside trash collection service to residents occupying housing
units contained in structures with four housing units per structure or less,
and that lie within the town. Apartment complexes composed of multiple units in
a common location are not included. Such trash collection services shall be
provided on a designated day of each week. This schedule, however, is subject
to change necessitated by special circumstances, including but not limited to:
holidays, special events, severe weather or equipment breakdown. Any changes in
the above schedule will be announced by the town, in advance if possible,
through the local news media.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2023-10, passed - -2023)
§ 50.04 AUTHORIZED CONTAINERS.
   To be eligible for trash collection, trash must be placed in disposable
trash bags and placed inside the special containers, which have been provided
by the contractor for use by the residents of the town. Trash bags must be
placed within the container provided by the contractor and those trash bags
should not weigh more than 40 pounds.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2023-10, passed - -2023)
§ 50.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR TRASH COLLECTION PICKUP.
   (A)   Items which are to be picked up pursuant to the trash collection
service, shall be placed adjacent to the curb immediately adjacent to the
individual’s residence, within three feet of the curb or traveled portion of
the street prior to 6:00 a.m. on the date scheduled for said collection, but
not earlier than 5:00 p.m. on the date preceding the scheduled collection.
   (B)   No person shall place any trash on the property of another. No person
shall search through, alter, deform, or remove any items set out for
collection.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2023-10, passed - -2023) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 LIMITATIONS ON TRASH ELIGIBLE FOR COLLECTION.
   No person shall dispose of, for collection, any needles, syringes, lancets
or other sharp objects unless the same are placed in a hard-plastic or metal
container with a screw-on or tightly secured lid. No person shall dispose of,
for collection, any soiled bandages, disposable sheets or medical gloves unless
the same are placed in a securely fastened plastic bag.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2023-10, passed - -2023) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 EXTRA GARBAGE BAGS.
   Town sticker(s) for extra garbage bag collection shall cost $2 per sticker.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2023-10, passed - -2023)
§ 50.08 FEES.
   (A)   Each housing unit or residential unit shall be charged a monthly fee
for weekly collections as follows:
      (1)   Twenty dollars beginning on February 1, 2025.
      (2)   Twenty-two dollars and fifty cents beginning on January 1, 2026.
      (3)   Twenty-five dollars beginning on January 1, 2027.
   (B)   Such charge shall be due and payable 15 days after billing thereof and
subject to a delinquent charge of 10%, if not paid when due.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2023-10, passed - -2023; Ord. 2024-15,
passed 11-6-2024)
§ 50.09 DELINQUENCY FEE.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-31, if any fees authorized by this chapter are not
paid within the time fixed for payment, they are delinquent. A penalty of 10%
of the amount of the fees attaches to the delinquent fees, as specified above.
The amount of the fee, the penalty, and a reasonable attorney’s fee may be
recovered by the Board in a civil action in the name of the town.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2023-10, passed - -2023)
§ 50.10 FUND FOR REVENUES.
   The revenues generated from the collection of fees and service charges from
trash and recyclables collection as provided for above, shall be deposited in a
fund and account separate from any other fund established and funded by tax
monies, expenditures from which shall be limited to costs associated with the
collection and disposal of said trash and recyclables and the purchase of
equipment necessary to provide such services to the residents and citizens of
the town.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2023-10, passed - -2023)
§ 50.11 BULKY ITEM COLLECTION SERVICES.
   Bulky items, excluded from the definition of trash can be picked up every
collection day with a $4 sticker attached. All normal, large household items
such as furniture, stoves, water heaters, and other appliances will be
acceptable for this collection. Refrigerators, air conditioners, or other items
which normally contain CFCs (Freon), will not be collected unless documentation
is provided that the CFCs have been properly removed. No hazardous materials,
lead acid batteries, tires, or any other items prohibited by federal, state,
county, or local laws or regulations will be accepted. Large item stickers
should be acquired from the town office for a charge of $4 per item prior to
the collection date.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2023-10, passed - -2023)
§ 50.12 RECYCLABLES COLLECTION SERVICES.
   (A)   As part of the services provided by the town, recyclable items
including newsprint, aluminum beverage cans, bi-metal, and ferrous cans,
Category #1 (polyethyl terephthalate) plastic containers, Category #2 (high
density polyethylene) plastic containers, and clear glass bottles shall be
collected biweekly. Containers may be in ordinary plastic trash bags, grocery
bags, boxes, or other appropriate containers.
   (B)   Recyclable items shall contain no free flowing liquids but need not be
free of labels. Recyclable beverage containers shall have caps and neck rings
removed.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2023-10, passed - -2023)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Rates
   
51.02   Deposit
   
51.03   Monthly fire protection maintenance charge
   
51.04   Temporary use
   
51.05   Sprinkler system fees
   
51.06   Tap
   
51.07   Application of payments made for services
Water Utility Rules and Regulations
   
51.20   Collection charges
   
51.21   Discontinuance of service
   
51.22   Meter deposit
   
51.23   Billing
   
51.24   Check return policy
   
51.25   Rental properties
   
51.26   Supervision of water taps
   
51.27   Temporary users
   
51.28   Paving improvements
   
51.29   Water meters
   
51.30   Inspection of premises
   
51.31   Required equipment
   
51.32   Turning water on and off
   
51.33   Fire hydrants
   
51.34   Covering equipment
   
51.35   Service pipes
   
51.36   Apartments and commercial buildings
   
51.37   Discontinued service
   
51.38   Meter failure
   
51.39   System maintenance
   
51.40   Construction and costs
   
51.41   Land developers
   
51.42   Main extensions
   
51.43   Large mains
   
51.44   Minimum requirements
   
51.45   Cross connection control
Mobile Homes
   
51.55   Application
   
51.56   Connection fee
   
51.57   Water meter
   
51.58   Exception
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 RATES.
   (A)   Rates and charges. There shall be and there are hereby established for
the use of and the services rendered by the waterworks of the Town of Hanover,
Indiana, the following rates and charges, based upon the use of water supplied
by said waterworks system during each monthly billing period.
 
General Service Metered Rates Rate per 1,000 Gallons
First 5,000 gallons  $7.76
Next 10,000 gallons  $7.01
Next 10,000 gallons  $5.78
Next 75,000 gallons  $3.87
Next 300,000 gallons $3.21
Over 400,000 gallons $2.59
 
   (B)   Minimum charge (per month). Each user shall pay a minimum charge in
accordance with the size of meter installed, for which the user will be
entitled to the quantity of water set in the metered schedule of rates:
Size of Meter Gallons Allowed Rate per Month
Size of Meter Gallons Allowed Rate per Month
5/8 inch      2,000           $15.52
3/4 inch      3,200           $24.83
1 inch        5,000           $38.80
1-1/2 inch    11,600          $85.06
2 inch        20,000          $137.80
3 inch        46,000          $247.97
4 inch        82,000          $387.29
5 inch        130,000         $553.25
6 inch        184,000         $726.59
8 inch        328,000         $1,188.83
Each user shall pay the minimum charge, as set forth above, if the meter is
on and the user did not have any usage.
 
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Delinquent bills. Ten percent of the total delinquent water bill
will be added to all bills that are outstanding and unpaid as of the sixteenth
of the month.
      (2)   Unauthorized meter use. Any person found to have turned on water
from the Town of Hanover’s municipal line or any line connected thereto when
service has been disconnected or before service has been properly applied for
and the charges paid shall be assessed a fine of $100 per day.
      (3)   Obstruction. Any user of water supplied by the Town of Hanover who
obstructs their water meter in such a manner that prevents the meter from being
read shall have the following penalties added to their water bill:
         (a)   First time - written notice delivered to the user.
         (b)   Second time - $20.
         (c)   Third time - $50.
         (d)   Fourth time - $75.
         (e)   Fifth time and thereafter - $100.
      (4)   Disconnect and reconnect fee.
         (a)   Each user of water supplied by the Town of Hanover who has been
disconnected due to non-payment will be charged $35 before service is
reconnected.
         (b)   Each user of water supplied by the Town of Hanover who wishes to
have the water turned off or disconnected for a period of time shall be charged
$35 per request for this service.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2019-9, passed 8-6-2019; Ord. 2022-11,
passed 10-4-2022)
§ 51.02 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Deposits shall be the sole responsibility of the property owner(s).
Landlords are responsible for the deposit on each property.
   (B)   Deposits are in the amount of $200 per meter.
   (C)   Any deposits held currently by the Town Clerk-Treasurer on behalf of a
renter or renters shall be returned to the renter, upon receipt from the
property owner(s)/landlord(s) payment of the deposit.
Deposits will be held by the town and returned to property owner(s) as follows:
      (1)   Deposits will be applied to final billings; however, consumer
utility deposits shall not be returned until such time as all final billing
issues are resolved and after all utility bills are satisfied.
      (2)   Residential property owners will receive a refund when property is
transferred or utility service is permanently discontinued at a particular
location.
      (3)   The deposit less an outstanding balance for utility services and
any fees due the Town of Hanover shall be refunded after a written statement
from the depositor that:
         (a)   The property has been conveyed or transferred to another person,
including names and address of the transferee; and
         (b)   The customer is no longer connected to the utility service for
which the deposit return is requested.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2020-20, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2022-11,
passed 10-4-2022)
§ 51.03 MONTHLY FIRE PROTECTION MAINTENANCE CHARGE.
   Each user, not including user(s) with a yard meter, shall be charged the
following monthly fire protection fee:
Size of Meter Rate per Month
Size of Meter Rate per Month
5/8 inch      $1.38
1 inch        $3.45
1-1/2 inch    $6.90
2 inch        $11.04
3 inch        $20.71
4 inch        $34.51
6 inch        $69.02
8 inch        $110.43
 
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2022-11, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 51.04 TEMPORARY USE.
   All temporary users of such water line shall pay the same rates and charges
as permanent users.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2022-11, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 51.05 SPRINKLER SYSTEM FEES.
   Water furnished for use by automatic sprinkler systems shall be charged
based on the size of connection needed to adequately supply such sprinkler
system, as follows:
 
Connection Size Annual Charge due by July 1
2 inch          $108.96
3 inch          $214.04
4 inch          $323.03
6 inch          $544.88
8 inch          $1,070.27
10 inch         $2,062.72
 
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2022-11, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 51.06 TAP.
   (A)   Each user in the corporation limits of the Town of Hanover at the time
he/she is connected with the waterworks system shall pay a charge to cover the
costs of excavating and tapping the main; furnishing and installing service
pipe from the main to the lot line; furnishing and installing meter crock (if
outside), yoke and meter. The charge for a five-eighths-inch meter tap shall be
$1,000, which shall be payable before such line is tapped.
   (B)   Each user outside the corporation limits of the Town of Hanover at the
time he/she is connected with the waterworks system shall pay a charge to cover
the costs of excavation and tapping the main; furnishing and installing service
pipe from the main to the lot line; furnishing and installing corporation and
stop cocks; and furnishing and installing meter crock (if outside), yoke and
meter. The charge for a five-eighths-inch meter tap shall be $1,000, which
shall be payable before such line is tapped.
   (C)   The charge for a tap larger than five-eighths-inch meter tap shall be
the cost of labor, materials, power machinery, transportation, permits and
overhead incurred for installing the tap, but shall not be less than the charge
for a five-eighths-inch meter tap.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2022-11, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 51.07 APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS MADE FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   In the event a user of the town’s water, sewer, or trash services
shall make a payment that is less than the total amount of all charges due the
town and shall also fail to designate to which charges the payment shall be
applied, then said payment shall be applied in the order set forth in division
(B) below.
   (B)   First to the water tax, then to the water penalties, then to trash
penalties, then to sewer penalties, then to water charges, than to trash
charges, and last to sewer charges.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 9-1-1993)
WATER UTILITY RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 51.20 COLLECTION CHARGES.
   All bills not paid on or within 15 days after the billing date thereof shall
have collection charges added as stated in the current rates and charges
ordinance.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.21 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   If bills are not paid within five days after the due date thereof, a
written notice of discontinuance of service shall be mailed to the delinquent
customer at least seven days before disconnecting service. Before a
reconnection is made after a delinquency is paid, an additional charge for
reinstating the service shall be assessed and collected as stated in the
current rates and charges ordinance.
   (B)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (C)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (D)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.22 METER DEPOSIT.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring water service from the utility
shall, prior to being furnished service, pay a meter deposit as stated in the
current rates and charges ordinance to the Clerk-Treasurer. Such deposit shall
be held by the utility until such time as service to said person, firm, or
corporation is terminated either by the consumer or by the utility. The deposit
shall be refunded to the consumer upon termination of the service upon full
payment of all water charges to that date. If service to a consumer is
discontinued and water charges are due and payable by the consumer to the
utility, the utility shall have the right to apply all or any part of the
consumer’s deposit to the payment of any such outstanding delinquency or charge
payable.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.23 BILLING.
   Any customer receiving service on or before the seventeenth of any month
will be billed for that month’s consumption or minimum bill. Any customer
discontinuing service on property on or after the twenty-seventh of any month
will be billed for consumption or minimum bill.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.24 CHECK RETURN POLICY.
   Any person issuing three checks returned to the town due to non-sufficient
funds will be required to make future payments with cash or a money order.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.25 RENTAL PROPERTIES.
   In the case of rental property, the property owner remains responsible for
any unpaid bills. In the event that a renter is delinquent in payment of his or
her bill, the owner of the property affected shall be notified in writing of
the delinquency.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.26 SUPERVISION OF WATER TAPS.
   All taps for water service in the mains of the waterworks system shall be
made under the direct authority and supervision of the Utilities
Superintendent. All requests for new water service shall be made to the
Superintendent or the Clerk-Treasurer, and fee as stated in the current rates
and charges ordinance paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time connection is
made with the waterworks system.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.27 TEMPORARY USERS.
   Temporary users such as contractors shall be charged a deposit and billed on
the basis of the metered gallon rates as stated in the current rates and
charges ordinance.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.28 PAVING IMPROVEMENTS.
   Prior to any new paving improvements in streets or alleys, as provided by
the town, all vacant lot owners or non-users of water service shall be given
written notice in advance of such date paving improvements are to be made, and
shall have 30 days in which to pay a water tap charge and have service laid
from the street or alley water main to their property line in advance of
pavement. If such action of property owner is not taken after said notice is
given, the future expense of cutting and replacing street or alley paving for
future water services shall be paid for by the property owner at the time water
service is installed.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.29 WATER METERS.
   All water meters shall be installed outside in tiles or inside consumer’s
premises in the location and manner as selected by the Utilities
Superintendent. Any refusal of prospective user to agree to meter location and/
or installation to serve the best interest of the town shall, at the option of
the Town Council, be sufficient reason to refuse water service until such
requirements are met.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.30 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   A waterworks representative shall have the right to inspect at any
reasonable time all service piping and water appurtenances inside a consumer’s
premises.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.31 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   Any service pipe that supplies two or more units shall be provided with a
separate stop cock and separate meter for each unit, with a minimum charge,
when consumption is minimum or under, applicable to each meter.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.32 TURNING WATER ON AND OFF.
   (A)   Water shall be turned off or on at the curb cock in front of the meter
only by a waterworks employee and not by the consumer.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of turning on water from the town’s municipal
line or any line connected thereto when service has been disconnected or before
service has been properly applied for and the charges paid shall be fined an
amount specified in the current rates and charges ordinance. Each day’s
violation of this subchapter shall be a separate offense.
   (C)   All service pipes must have stop and waste cocks between the outside
meter and consumer premises for emergency shut-offs and making of repairs.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.33 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall take water from any fire hydrant except for fire purposes,
except upon authority of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.34 COVERING EQUIPMENT.
   All persons are forbidden to cover up or in any way interfere with any curb
box, valve pit, valve box, or hydrant. In case of any automobile or vehicular
accident involving the breaking or disconnection of a fire hydrant, the car
owner involved shall pay for the repair of same.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.35 SERVICE PIPES.
   In no case shall service pipes be allowed to run across from one lot to
another. Each lot shall be served by a service directly from the distribution
main serving said premises.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.36 APARTMENTS AND COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
   The water utility may require, at its discretion, that separate customers in
apartment houses or commercial buildings with four or less customer quarters or
family units, and in double houses, duplex flats, or trailer camps be metered
separately in cases where one meter is presently installed and consumption is
less than combined minimums of all separate customer units served.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.37 DISCONTINUED SERVICE.
   Water service to any customer may be discontinued for the following reasons:
   (A)   Wasting or improper use after same has been called to his or her
attention in writing;
   (B)   Refusal to pay bills within prescribed time; or
   (C)   For interfering with, or destroying, any water appurtenances or
appliances belonging to the town.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.38 METER FAILURE.
   In case of failure of any meter, the town may bill consumption on the
average of billings for the last three months before the meter failed to
register properly.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.39 SYSTEM MAINTENANCE.
   The town shall be responsible for the maintenance of mains and service
connections from the mains to the meter. The property owner is responsible for
the service line on the user’s side of the meter.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.40 CONSTRUCTION AND COSTS.
   Main extensions to residential areas not previously served shall be made at
the expense of the land developer. All construction shall be in accordance with
town plans and specifications which are on file at the office of the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.41 LAND DEVELOPERS.
   Land developers shall furnish valve and installation in accordance with town
standards.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.42 MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Main extensions to industries and commercial businesses in areas not
previously served shall be made at the expense of the user.
   (B)   All construction shall be in accordance with town plans and
specifications which are on file at the office of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.43 LARGE MAINS.
   (A)   In the event the water utility requires a larger main than that
proposed by the user or developer, the additional expense of the larger main
shall be borne by the town.
   (B)   All construction shall be in accordance with town plans and
specifications which are on file at the office of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.44 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   Minimum main size shall be six inches and material shall be cement-lined
cast iron pipe or approved equal. Service connections shall be a minimum three-
fourths inch “K” copper or approved equal. Valves shall be located as required
by the town.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 11-4-1992)
§ 51.45 CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   A CROSS CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality,
unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the Town Water
Department.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Town Water Department to cause inspections
to be made of all properties served by the public water system where cross
connections with the public water system is deemed possible. The inspections
and reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as
established by the Town Water Department and may include a requirement of
annual inspection reports being made to the Town Water Department.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the Town Water
Department shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine any property served by a connection to the public water system of the
town for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any
property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed
evidence of the presence of cross connections.
   (E)   The Town Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the Town Water Department that a cross connection
or an emergency endangers public health, safely, or welfare and requires
immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk
of the town and delivered to the consumer's premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced-pressure- principle backflow preventer in
main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow preventer
must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to flooding or
freezing.
   (H)   This section does not supersede the State Uniform Plumbing Code, but
is supplementary to it.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 5-21-2024)
MOBILE HOMES
§ 51.55 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply only to those mobile homes which are located in
either a mobile home park or a mobile home recreational park.
(Ord. 1990-12, passed 12-5-1990)
§ 51.56 CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   When the owner of a mobile home park or mobile home recreational park
wishes to connect a mobile home to the town’s waterworks, the owner of said
mobile home park or mobile home recreational park shall first pay a connection
fee of $100.
   (B)   When the owner of a mobile home park or mobile home recreational park
wishes to connect a mobile home to the town’s sewage works, the owner of said
mobile home park or mobile home recreational park shall first pay a connection
fee of $100.
(Ord. 1990-12, passed 12-5-1990)
§ 51.57 WATER METER.
   Before a mobile home located in a mobile home park or mobile home
recreational park shall be connected to the town’s water or sewage works the
town shall first install a water meter.
(Ord. 1990-12, passed 12-5-1990)
§ 51.58 EXCEPTION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to owners of mobile home parks or mobile
home recreational parks whose owners do not wish mobile homes located therein
to be individually connected to the town’s water or sewage works.
(Ord. 1990-12, passed 12-5-1990)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Delinquent bills. Ten percent of the total delinquent water bill will
be added to all bills that are outstanding and unpaid as of the sixteenth of
the month.
   (B)   Unauthorized meter use. Any person found to have turned on water from
the town’s municipal line or any line connected thereto when service has been
disconnected or before service has been properly applied for and the charges
paid shall be assessed a fine of $100 per day.
   (C)   Obstruction. Any user of water supplied by the town who obstructs
their water meter in such a manner that prevents the meter from being read
shall have the following penalties added to their water bill.
 
Number of Offense         Penalty
First time                Written notice delivered to the user
Second time               $20
Third time                $50
Fourth time               $75
Fifth time and thereafter $100
 
   (D)   Disconnect and reconnect fee. Each user of water supplied by the town
who has been disconnected due to non-payment will be charged $35 before service
is reconnected. Each user of water supplied by the town who wishes to have the
water turned off or disconnected for a period of time shall be charged $35 per
request for this service. Reconnection will not be made until after all
delinquent bills and charges, if any, owed by the customer to the town have
been paid.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-16-2019; Ord. 2020-20, passed 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
Sewer Connection Specifications
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Owner responsibility for toilet installation and sewer connection
   
52.03   Sewer connection
   
52.04   Prohibitions
   
52.05   Private sewage disposal system
   
52.06   Building sewers and connections
   
52.07   Use of public sewers
   
52.08   Standard sanitary sewer specifications
   
52.09   Administration and enforcement
Rates and Charges
   
52.20   Sewer rates
   
52.21   Sewer charge adjustments
   
52.22   Deposits and liens
   
52.23   Owner responsibility
   
52.24   Sewer tap fees
   
52.25   Delinquency penalty
 
   
52.99   Penalty
SEWER CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight or milligrams per
liter of fluid.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CLASS OF USER. May include the following five classes:
      (1)   Domestic users who are residential users;
      (2)   Commercial users who are service or business users, whose strength
does not exceed normal domestic waste strength;
      (3)   Industrial users which shall mean any manufacturing or processing
facility that discharges industrial wastes into a publicly-owned waste
treatment works;
      (4)   Institutional user such as schools, hospitals, rest homes, and the
like; and
      (5)   Governmental users such as local, state, and federal governmental
agencies and divisions.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. 
      (1)   Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, ph, and fecal coliform
bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the
treatment works was designed to treat these pollutants, and in fact does remove
these pollutant to a substantial degree. The term “substantial degree” is not
subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in the order
of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not
considered substantial.
      (2)   Examples of the additional pollutants which may be considered
compatible include:
         (a)   Chemical oxygen demand (COD);
         (b)   Total organic carbon (TOC);
         (c)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
         (d)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
         (e)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long term capital debt.
   DEPRECIATION OF REAL PROPERTY. The annual allowance that is allocated to the
original cost of real property, other than land.
   EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT COST. The cash expenditures or expense allowances set
aside for the purpose of purchasing new equipment or to replace worn or
obsolete equipment that is no longer operating at an accepted level of
efficiency due to continued use or technological improvements.
   GARBAGE. Solid waste from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as
distinguished from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by town/system through its
authority to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connection to the public sewer works.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under 307(a) of Pub. Law 92-500, being the Water Pollution
Control Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317; or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. The basic regulatory
mechanism established by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act amendments of
1972, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as supplemented by the state’s Stream
Control Law, I.C. 13-18-19-1 et seq., which provides for a permit program for
the control of pollutant discharges into the waters of the state.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in the sewer industrial
cost recovery regulations of this chapter.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewater to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to 402 of Pub. Law 92-500, being the Water Pollution
Control Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M) COSTS. The cash expenditures for normal
operating expenses, such as wages, supplies, fuel, insurance, services, and the
like.
   ph. The logarithm of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of
solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The wastes from toilets and other sanitary plumbing
facilities.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE LIFE. A period of 15 years for equipment and 50 years for real
property, other than land.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with those
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY REGULATIONS. Provides for recovery from industrial
users of the sewage works, a portion of the federal grant amount allocable to
the construction of sewage facilities for treating industrial waste.
   SEWER USE REGULATIONS. Regulates the connection to and use of public and
private sewers.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works or his or
her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USEFUL LIFE. A period of 15 years for equipment and 50 years for real
property, other than land.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of those works pursuant 204(1) of Pub.
Law 92-500, being the Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   Y CONNECTIONS. More than one building or structure attached to a single
sewer tap are prohibited.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 2-24-2002)
§ 52.02 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY FOR TOILET INSTALLATION AND SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the town
from which is generated any waste or sewage, and abutting any street, alley, or
right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sewer is required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly to the proper public
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after
date of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 300
feet of the property line.
   (B)   However, no new connections shall be made unless there is capacity
available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and the sewage
treatment plant, including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 2-24-2002)
§ 52.03 SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   Responsibility for connection. Any person constructing or remodeling
any building within the town, which is located within 300 feet of the town/
systems sanitary sewer system, must connect to the sewer system if wastewater
is to be generated in the structure.
   (B)   Property owner responsible for maintenance; bond. The building,
maintenance, or repair of any sewer line under town property shall be the
responsibility of the property owner. Prior to excavating in any street, the
property owner shall post a bond in the sum of $500 to guarantee the proper
replacement of the street.
   (C)   Permit required. A permit shall be secured from the town/system by the
owner of any property before connecting to or tapping into a sewer line. Each
application shall give precise location of the property, the name of the owner,
and the name of the person employed to do the work. When the permit has been
granted, the town/system shall designate the position or location of the tap to
the sanitary sewer and shall designate the type of tap required.
   (D)   Conformance with state code. The size, shape, alignment, and materials
to be used in any sewer line tap and the method to be used in excavating,
placement of pipe jointing, testing, and back-filling shall conform to the
state building and plumbing codes or town ordinance. All taps to the sanitary
sewer system shall be completed with the use of a saddle tap or tee, unless the
connection is made in a manhole.
   (E)   Notification for inspection and connection. All connections shall be
made under the supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative.
No sewer line or connection shall be covered or buried until after the
inspection has been completed. The owner or person doing the work must give 24-
hour notice for the inspection and connection.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 2-24-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Discharge into natural outlets. It shall be unlawful to discharge to
any natural outlet within the jurisdiction of the town including any sanitary
sewage, industrial waste, or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Privies, septic tanks, and other facilities. Except as hereinafter
provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facilities intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.
   (C)   Tampering with or damaging sewer equipment. No unauthorized person
shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a
part of the municipal sewage works.
   (D)   Tap approval required. No person, firm, or corporation shall tap any
sanitary sewer in the town/system without first obtaining the approval of the
Superintendent and no person shall continue to permit a tap discharging any
waters into the sanitary sewer system other than sewage after receiving notice
of the illegal tap.
   (E)   Illegal tap. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
to continue discharging any waters into the sanitary sewer system of the town/
system after receiving written notice from the Superintendent notifying the
owner to disconnect within 30 days from the receipt of the notice.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 2-24-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Connecting building sewer to private system. Where a public sanitary
sewer is not available under the provisions of this subchapter, the building
sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with all
recommendations of the State Board of Health and/or the town/system.
   (B)   Connecting private sewage disposal system to public sewer. At such
time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private
sewage disposal system, as provided in this subchapter, a direct connection
shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this subchapter, and any
septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall
be filled with sand, gravel, or other approved materials and abandoned.
   (C)   Maintenance of private sewer disposal system. The owner shall operate
and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all
times, at no expense to the town/system.
   (D)   Noninterference with additional requirements. No statement in this
section shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that
may be imposed by the state/local health office.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 2-24-2002)
§ 52.06 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the town/
system.
   (B)   Classes of permit; inspection fee.
      (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   Residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   Establishments producing industrial waste.
      (2)   In either class, the owner or owner’s agent shall obtain a permit
from the town/system. The permit shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgement of
the Superintendent/Inspector. A permit and inspection fee of $25 for
residential, $50 for commercial, and $100 for industrial shall be paid to the
town/system at the time the permit is issued.
   (C)   Cost and expense; indemnification. All costs and expenses incidental
to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner or the person installing the building sewer for the owner
shall indemnify the town/system from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be incurred by the installation.
   (D)   Separate building sewer required for every building. A separate and
independent building sewer shall be provided for every building; except where
one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private
sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an
adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer.
   (E)   Use of old building sewers with new buildings. Old building sewers may
be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found on
examination and tests by the Superintendent/Inspector to meet all requirements
of this subchapter.
   (F)   Pipe and joint specifications.
      (1)   The building sewer shall be no less then SDR 35 or equal; schedule
40 pvc pipe or equal; cast iron soil pipe; ASTM specification or equal. All
joints to be tight and water-proof.
      (2)   All joints and connections shall be made gas tight and watertight.
Cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and filled with
molten lead, federal specification QQ-L-156, not less than one inch deep. Lead
shall be run in one pouring and caulked tight. No paint, varnish, or other
coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material until after the joint has
been tested and approved.
   (G)   Size and slope. The size and slope of the building sewers shall be
subject to the approval of the Superintendent/Inspector, but in no event shall
the diameter be less than six inches. The slope of the six inch pipe shall not
be less than one-eighth inch per foot.
   (H)   Elevation and alignment. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall
be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No
building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of any bearing
wall, which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford
protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid in uniform grade and in
straight alignment in so far as possible. Changes in direction shall be made
with properly curved pipe and fittings.
   (I)   Artificial lifters. In all buildings in which any building drain is
too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by
the drains shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer. No water operated sewage ejector shall be used.
   (J)   Excavations; barricades.
      (1)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. Pipe
laying and backfilling shall be performed in accordance with specifications,
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the Superintendent or authorized representative.
      (2)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights, and/or caution tape and/or snow fence so as
to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a
manner satisfactory to the town.
   (K)   Inspection of connection to public sewer. The applicant or contractor
for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent or authorized
representative when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer.
   (L)   Clean-out required. Customer shall furnish and install a clean-out in
the customer’s sewer line for maintenance requirements.
   (M)   Tap standards. Materials and sewer tap will be specifications of the
town/utilities system. The Superintendent or authorized representative will
inspect and approve the sewer tap before the builder, contractor, or customer
fills in the sewer line.
      (1)   All new sewer laterals fines shall be pressure tested at ten psi
and must maintain ten psi for a period of one hour.
      (2)   The town/system shall charge an inspection fee accordingly to
classification.
      (3)   Builders or contractors shall post a bond to the town/system in the
sum of $500 per cut to insure proper repair of the streets. Final inspection of
the streets shall be approved by the Superintendent or authorized
representative.
      (4)   All material used will be at no expense to the town/system.
   (N)   Tap-in fee. An applicant for a new sewer service from any main line of
the town-owned sewer system shall pay a tap-in fee of $1,000 with his or her
application to the town/system.
   (O)   Back-up; one way check valve required. In cases where there is little
fall in a customer’s sewer line in regards to the utility main sewer line and
where the customer has had a problem with sewer back-up, it is the
responsibility of the customer to install and maintain a one-way check valve in
his or her sewer line to protect the customer’s property at no expense to the
town/system. Failure of the one-way check valve and damage caused therefor will
be at no expense to the town/system.
   (P)   Maintenance from point of tap. The town/system is responsible for the
maintenance of the main sewer line only. Property owners are responsible for
the installation and maintenance of sewers and sewer lines from the sewer tap
to the point of origin at the dwelling.
   (Q)   Inspection of reconnections. Applicant or user shall notify the
Superintendent or authorized representative when a building sewer is ready for
inspection due to modification of and prior to reconnection to the public
sewer.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 2-24-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Discharge of stormwater and other unpolluted waters.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, sub-surface drainage, cooling water,
or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      (2)   Stormwater and all unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
sewers specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved
by the Superintendent or authorized representative.
   (B)   Discharge of wastewater or polluted waters. No person shall place,
deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the jurisdiction of the town/system, any wastewater or
other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES permit.
   (C)   Prohibited discharges to the public sewers. Except as hereinafter
provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million (ppm) by weight, of fat, oil, grease;
      (3)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 25 parts per million
(ppm) by weight, of soluble oils;
      (4)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (6)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having a ph lower than six and higher than
nine, or having any corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of a character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the materials
at the sewage treatment plant; and
      (10)   Any noxious gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance.
   (D)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors.
      (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent or authorized representative, they are necessary
for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing excessive amounts of
grease, or any flammable wastes, sand, and other harmful ingredients; except
that the interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwellings. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent or authorized representative, located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, gas tight, and equipped
with easily removed covers.
      (3)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the customer, at the customer’s expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
   (E)   Control manholes.
      (1)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
served by a building sewer carrying wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, tests,
analysis, and measurement of waste and flow.
      (2)   This manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent or authorized representative.
      (3)   The manhole shall be installed by the owner, at the expense of the
owner, and shall be maintained by the customer so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (F)   Preliminary treatment facilities.
      (1)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes shall
be subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent or authorized
representative. The limits on the strength and character of these waters and
wastes are, but may not be limited to:
         (a)   Having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater then 250
parts per million;
         (b)   Containing more than 300 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Containing any quantity of substance having the characteristics
described in prohibited discharges to public sewers; and
         (d)   Having an average daily flow greater than 5% of the daily sewage
flow of the town/system.
      (2)   The customer shall provide at the customer’s expense the
preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 250 parts per million
and the suspended solids to 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within
the maximum limits provided for in prohibited discharges to public sewers;
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of waters or
wastes;
         (d)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information
relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for
the approval of the Superintendent or authorized representative and IDEM. No
construction of the facilities shall commence until approval is obtained in
writing; or
         (e)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in a satisfactory and
effective operation, by the customer at the customer’s expense.
   (G)   Measurements, tests, and analysis. All measurements, tests, and
analysis of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made
in prohibited discharges to public sewers and preliminary treatment facilities
shall be determined in accordance with 40 C.F.R. Part 136 and Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater and shall be determined at the
control manhole or upon suitable samples.
   (H)   Pretreatment; equalization of waste flows. If any waters or wastes are
discharged, or are proposed to be discharged, to the public sewer, which waters
contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in prohibited
discharges to public sewers, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent
may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges;
      (2)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate;
      (3)   Require pretreatment of the wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage;
      (4)   Require control or flow equalization of the wastes so as to avoid
any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works;
and/or
      (5)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating such wastes.
   (I)   Special agreements. No statement contained in this subchapter shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town/
system and customer whereby a waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the town/system for treatment, subject to payment at rates that are
compatible.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 2-24-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 STANDARD SANITARY SEWER SPECIFICATIONS.
   The standard sanitary sewer specifications are attached to the ordinance
codified herein as Appendix “A” and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 2-24-2002)
§ 52.09 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Entry for inspections. The Superintendent or authorized representative
of the town shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
this subchapter.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The town/system shall make and enforce this subchapter as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
collection system, lift stations, and treatment works, for the construction and
use of house sewers and connections to the sewer system, and for the
regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of rates and charges.
      (2)   The town/system is authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into
the sewer system, which, in its own discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the treatment works or to require methods affecting pretreatment
of the wastes to reduce the characteristics of the wastes satisfactorily.
   (C)   Violations. Any person found to be violating any provision of this
subchapter shall be served by the town/system with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable amount of time for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (D)   Responsibility for expense. Any person violating any provisions of
this subchapter shall become liable to the town/system for any expense, loss,
or damage incurred by the town by reason of the violation, including attorney’s
fee incurred by the town/system by reason of the violation.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 2-24-2002) Penalty, see
52.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.20 SEWER RATES.
   The water usage on which the amount of said sewage rates and charges shall
be determined and the amount of said sewage rates and charges shall be as
follows.
SCHEDULE OF PRESENT AND PROPOSED RATES AND CHARGES
Consumption of Water Per Month (charge per 1,000 gallons) Present(1) Proposed
SCHEDULE OF PRESENT AND PROPOSED RATES AND CHARGES
Consumption of Water Per Month (charge per 1,000 gallons) Present(1) Proposed
First 2,000 gallons                                       $9.51      $12.17
Next 3,000 gallons                                        $8.22      $10.52
Next 15,000 gallons                                       $5.44      $6.96
Next 80,000 gallons                                       $4.38      $5.61
Over 100,000 gallons                                      $2.82      $3.61
Hanover College flat rate per month                       $21,706.87 $27,784.79
Hanover College monthly special surcharge                 N/A        $22,991.67
Minimum charge per month for 2,000 gallons or less        $19.02     $24.35
(1) Present rates and charges were adopted December 29, 2015 per Ordinance
2015-15.
 
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 12-29-2015; Ord. 2022-7, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 52.21 SEWER CHARGE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that the owner of a lot, parcel of real estate, or
building can show to the satisfaction of the Town’s Council that their water
usage for a billing period was abnormally high because of a water leak, then
subject to the following limitations the Council shall make the following
adjustments to the owner’s sewage bill.
   (B)   All requests shall be made either in person at a regularly scheduled
meeting of the Town Council or in writing and mailed to the town’s Water and
Sewage Department at P.O. Box 288, Hanover, Indiana 47243.
   (C)   A $5 administration fee will be assessed for each adjustment.
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 12-29-2015)
§ 52.22 DEPOSITS AND LIENS.
   (A)   No sewer deposits are required for customers of the sewage works.
   (B)   Unpaid sewer bills shall be certified by the Clerk-Treasurer and a
lien on real estate benefitted by the service and assessed and collected in the
same manner as property taxes pursuant to the state code, if they remain
unpaid.
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 12-29-2015)
§ 52.23 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   Notwithstanding billing to any other person, utility charges for water,
sewer, and trash pickup service to a particular location shall remain the
responsibility of the owner of the real estate who shall hold the utility
harmless from any loss occasioned by the delinquency of the person billed,
including all penalties, recording fees, and attorney’s fees at the levels
established.
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 12-29-2015)
§ 52.24 SEWER TAP FEES.
   Each user or customer, at the time he or she is connected to the town’s
sanitary sewer system, shall pay a charge to cover the cost of said connection.
The charge shall be $1,000 for a sewer connection (tap) fee for properties
within the town and for properties outside of the town. Mobile homes, in a
mobile home park, shall pay a user fee per unit for connection to the sewer of
$150 each.
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 12-29-2015)
§ 52.25 DELINQUENCY PENALTY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-31, if any fees authorized by this subchapter are
not paid within the time fixed for payment, they are delinquent. A penalty of
10% of the amount of the fees attaches to the delinquent fees. The amount of
the fee, the penalty, and a reasonable attorney’s fee may be recovered by the
Town Council in a civil action in the name of the town.
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 12-29-2015)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in the town/system in addition to other penalties provided for in
§§
52.01 to
52.09, shall be guilty of an infraction, and upon conviction shall be fined in
an amount not to exceed $500 for any violation. Each day in which any violation
shall continue shall be deemed as a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating §
52.04(C) shall be subject to a $250 fine per offense and/or arrest under the
charge of disorderly conduct.
   (D)   (1)   In the event any person, firm, or corporation who receives
notice from the Superintendent to disconnect an illegal tap in violation of §
52.04(E) and fails to do so within the time required herein, the property owner
will be fined a fee of $50 a day, payable to the town/system Clerk- Treasurer.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation who willfully makes any
unauthorized tap to the sanitary sewer system shall be subject to fines not to
exceed $100 per day, per offense, and/or arrested under a charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 2002-19, passed 2-24-2002)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
All Terrain Vehicles
   
70.01   Registration required
   
70.02   ATVs to stay on main roads
   
70.03   Traffic regulations
   
70.04   Light requirements
Golf Carts
   
70.15   Driving regulations
   
70.16   Equipment requirements
   
70.17   Operation in the town
   
70.18   Driver’s license required
   
70.19   Traffic rules
   
70.20   Registration
   
70.21   Financial responsibility
ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 70.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The operation of all terrain vehicles (ATV) within the town is
strictly prohibited unless the ATV is operated and equipped in full compliance
with this subchapter. ATVs may not be operated on town streets except as
restricted by this subchapter.
   (B)   Only ATVs that are registered with all of the laws and regulations of
the state and with the county ordinances may pass through the town.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 8-28-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.02 ATVS TO STAY ON MAIN ROADS.
   As the ATVs pass through the town they must stay on the main roads, these
roads are as follow: Main Cross; Main Street; Hanover Beach Hill Road; Madison
Avenue; Greenbrier Road; Thornton Road; Kuntz Road; and Grange Hall Road.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 8-28-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   ATVs must obey all traffic regulations of the state, county, and the town.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 8-28-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 LIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   ATVs operating after sunset and before sunrise shall have all light
requirements that meet the statutes of the state and county.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 8-28-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 70.15 DRIVING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The operation of golf carts within the town is strictly prohibited
unless the golf cart is operated and equipped in full compliance with this
subchapter. Golf carts may be operated on town streets except as restricted in
this subchapter.
   (B)   Golf carts may not be operated on State Road 56-62 at any time. Golf
carts may cross said highway only where they can cross at a 90 degree angle,
and then only when the cross can be made safety.
   (C)   Operators of golf carts shall, at all times, yield the right-of-way to
faster moving traffic, and stay near the right side of the road as to not
impede the regular flow of traffic.
   (D)   Golf carts shall not be operated on town streets or the highway of the
town during sunset to sunrise unless the golf cart is equipped with two
headlights (one on each side of the front of the golf cart) and two operating
tail lights with brake lights (one on each side of the rear of the golf cart)
which are visible from a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 2014-12, passed 8-28-2014)
§ 70.16 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Operators of golf carts not equipped with turn signals shall give a
continuous hand signal for a minimum of 200 feet of their intention to turn off
of the street they are traveling on. Golf carts shall be identified as slow
moving vehicles by state approved triangular slow moving vehicle signs mounted
on the rear of the golf cart which is clearly visible at all times while being
operated on the town streets.
(Ord. 2014-12, passed 8-28-2014)
§ 70.17 OPERATION IN THE TOWN.
   (A)   Golf carts shall not be operated on town sidewalks.
   (B)   Golf carts being operated in the town park shall yield the right-of-
way to all pedestrians walking.
   (C)   The number of occupants in the golf cart shall be limited to the
number of factory seats installed and provided on the golf cart.
   (D)   The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and no
part of the body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside of the golf
cart while the golf cart is in motion.
(Ord. 2014-12, passed 8-28-2014)
§ 70.18 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a driver’s license or 16 years
of age and has a valid school ID may operate a golf cart on the streets of the
town.
(Ord. 2014-12, passed 8-28-2014)
§ 70.19 TRAFFIC RULES.
   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town which governs the operation of
motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2014-12, passed 8-28-2014)
§ 70.20 REGISTRATION.
   Beginning January 1, 2015, all golf carts operated on the town streets shall
be registered with the town and bear a registration sticker. The town shall
collect a fee for said registration, which shall be set from time to time by
the Town Council.
(Ord. 2014-12, passed 8-28-2014)
§ 70.21 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The financial ability of the operator or owner notwithstanding, the
operator of the golf cart must show financial responsibility when operating the
golf cart on the streets in the town.
   (B)   Written proof of financial responsibility must be either on the golf
cart or carried by the operator at all times.
   (C)   Liability insurance coverage on the golf cart shall be in the amount
not less than the minimum required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
(Ord. 2014-12, passed 8-28-2014)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Street names
      
III.   One-way streets
      
IV.   Four-way stops
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The maximum permitted speed upon all town streets located within
Hanover College shall be 20 mph.
      (2)   The town shall place appropriate signs listing the speed limit on
the streets within the college, however, the town will rely upon Hanover
College to maintain such signs.
      (3)   The maximum permitted speed on Main Street from the entrance to
Hanover College to Main Cross Street shall be 20 mph.
   (B)   (1)   The maximum permitted speed upon File Street located within the
town shall be 20 mph.
      (2)   The town shall place and maintain appropriate signs listing the
speed limit on File Street.
   (C)   (1)   The maximum permitted speed upon Volz Drive, Hanover Drive,
River Road, and Ohio Avenue in Volz Addition located within the town shall be
20 mph.
      (2)   The town shall place and maintain appropriate signs listing the
speed limit on Volz Drive.
   (D)   (1)   The maximum speed limit for all streets in the town shall be 30
mph unless otherwise posted.
      (2)   The speed limit in the following areas which constitute school
zones, playground, park areas, and state licensed daycare facilities is hereby
established at 20 mph:
         (a)   Joe’s Lane;
         (b)   Meadow Lane;
         (c)   Hickory Drive;
         (d)   File Street;
         (e)   Smith Lane;
         (f)   Madison Avenue;
         (g)   Golden Rod Lane;
         (h)   Glad Street;
         (i)   Main Street from Main Cross to Madison Avenue;
         (j)   Main Cross from Second Street to Smith Lane; and
         (k)   East First Street from Locust to Pine Ridge.
      (3)   Violation of this division (D) shall be a Class C infraction, and
any person violating this division (D) shall be fined accordingly for each
violation.
   (E)   The speed limit on the following streets is established at 20 mph:
      (1)   Crowe Street;
      (2)   Cliff Duke;
      (3)   Cynthiana Avenue;
      (4)   File Street;
      (5)   First Street;
      (6)   Glad Street;
      (7)   Golden Rod;
      (8)   Gray Street;
      (9)   Hanover Beach Hill Road;
      (10)   Hanover Drive;
      (11)   Hickory Drive;
      (12)   Jackson Lane;
      (13)   Janie Lane;
      (14)   Locust Street;
      (15)   Logan's Point;
      (16)   Lois Lane;
      (17)   Lowry Lane;
      (18)   Maple Street;
      (19)   Marine Street;
      (20)   Meadow Lane;
      (21)   Medical Plaza Drive;
      (22)   November Street;
      (23)   October Street;
      (24)   Ohio Avenue;
      (25)   Pine Ridge Road;
      (26)   Presbyterian Avenue;
      (27)   River Bend Trail;
      (28)   River Road;
      (29)   Rose Maur Street;
      (30)   Second Street;
      (31)   Second Street Terrace;
      (32)   Shady Nook;
      (33)   Sharon Court;
      (34)   Sharon Drive;
      (35)   Sharp Street;
      (36)   Smith Lane;
      (37)   Spruce Lane;
      (38)   North Sycamore Drive;
      (39)   South Sycamore Drive;
      (40)   Third Street;
      (41)   Volz Drive;
      (42)   West Street; and
      (43)   Garritt Street.
   (F)   The speed limit on the following streets is established at 30 mph:
      (1)   Kuntz Road;
      (2)   Thornton Road;
      (3)   Greenbriar Road;
      (4)   Madison Avenue;
      (5)   Main Street;
      (6)   Main Cross Street, except as outlined in this schedule; and
      (7)   Grange Hall Road.
(Ord. 1990-9, passed 9-12-1990; Ord. 1995-5, passed 6-21-1995; Ord. 1995-7,
passed 7-19-1995; Ord. 1999-12, passed 7-7-1999; Ord. 2020-10, passed 9-1-2020;
Ord. 2021-6, passed 6-15-2021; Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
SCHEDULE II. STREET NAMES.
   (A)   The private drive located in the town shall be named Medical Plaza.
   (B)   Deborah Avenue in the town is now and from this date forever will be
known as Clifford Duke Drive.
(Res. 1990-2, passed 1-24-1990; Ord. 1995-23, passed 12-20-1995)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Locust Street shall be a one-way street going east from Main Street to Main
Cross Street and appropriate signage indicating such should be placed
accordingly.
(Ord. 2013-22, passed 8-19-2013)
SCHEDULE IV. FOUR-WAY STOPS.
   (A)   The intersection of First Street and Locust is hereby designated as a
four-way stop. Proper signage will be placed at said intersection as soon as
possible.
   (B)   (1)   The intersection of West Street and Second Street in the town
shall be a four-way stop. Each vehicle approaching the intersection shall stop
before entering the intersection and shall yield the right-of-way as required
by state traffic laws.
      (2)   Disregarding a stop sign at said intersection shall be a Class C
infraction punishable by a fine of up to $500.
      (3)   A violation of this division (B) may be resolved through the town’s
Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 1993-29, passed 12-15-1993; Ord. 2012-11, passed 8-7-2012)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No-parking zones
SCHEDULE I. NO-PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   The Street Department Manager is hereby directed to place “NO
PARKING” signs along both sides and the south end of Lois Lane, and parking is
to be prohibited along said street.
      (2)   Violation of this division (A) shall be a Class C infraction, and
any person violating this division (A) shall be fined accordingly for each
violation.
   (B)   (1)   The town may establish “no parking” zones on specific streets
determined to be appropriate.
      (2)   Parking shall not be permitted at the following locations:
         (a)   On either side of West Street between Crowe Street and Main
Street;
         (b)   On either side of Crowe Street between Main Cross Street and W.
LaGrange Road;
         (c)   On either side of North and/or South Sycamore Drive between
Thornton Road and back to Thornton Road (the entire loop of Sycamore Drive);
         (d)   On either side of Maple Street between Thornton Road and
Sycamore Drive);
         (e)   On either side of November Street between Greenbriar and October
Street;
         (f)   On either side of October Street between Greenbriar and November
Street; and
         (g)   On either side of Volz Drive between State Road 56 (W. Lagrange
Road) and Hickory Drive.
      (3)   The Street Commissioner is authorized by the town to post traffic-
control signs notifying the traveling public of the “no parking” zones on the
specified portions of the designated streets.
      (4)   A violation of this division (B) shall be a Class C infraction.
Therefore, any person who violates this division (B) shall be fined not more
than $500 for each offense, plus court costs.
   (C)   (1)   The town may establish “no parking” zones on specific streets
determined to be appropriate.
      (2)   Parking shall not be permitted on Joe’s Lane, within 100 feet of
its intersection with Main Cross Street, between 2:00 and 3:00 p.m. on any day
when the Southwestern Consolidated Schools are in session.
      (3)   The Street Commissioner is authorized by the town to post traffic-
control signs notifying the traveling public of the “no parking” zones on the
specified portions of the designated streets.
      (4)   A violation of this division (C) shall be a Class C infraction.
Therefore, any person who violates this division (C) shall be fined not more
than $500 for each offense, plus court costs.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 10-27-1999; Ord. 2004-1, passed 2-16-2004; Ord. 2004-14,
passed 12-7-2004; Ord. 2022-4, passed 4-5-2022)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   PUBLIC PLACES
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Restraint of animals
   
90.03   Impoundment and fees
   
90.04   Owner responsibility
   
90.05   Nuisance
   
90.06   Kennel standards for guard and sentry dogs
   
90.07   Interference with enforcement
Vicious Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Regulation of dangerous and vicious dogs
   
90.22   Killing dog approaching in a menacing fashion
   
90.23   Offender to pay expenses; determination of dangerous or vicious status;
and notice
   
90.24   Causing a public nuisance
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the town to perform the
duties required by this code section or state law regarding animals.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated and operated by the Jefferson County
Animal Shelter Board, if applicable, for the purposes of impounding and caring
for dogs, cats, and certain other domestic animals held under authority of this
code section.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. In this subchapter, dogs and cats are generally considered
domestic animals. Other animals are considered on a case by case situation.
   KENNEL. An establishment where dogs and cats of any species are kept for the
purposes of breeding, buying, selling, showing, or boarding, and where the
training of those animals for guard or sentry purposes, and with establishment
is constructed from which animals cannot stray.
   OWNER. When applied to the proprietorship of a dog or cat or other domestic
animal, means any person owning, keeping, or harboring one or more dogs, cats,
or other domestic animals. A dog or cat shall be deemed to be harbored if it is
fed or sheltered for three or more consecutive days.
   POLICE OFFICER or LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person employed or elected by
the state, city, county, town, or township whose duty it is to preserve peace
or to make arrests or to enforce the law.
   RESTRAINT. A dog shall be deemed to be under restraint if its owner or
person in charge of it does not cause or allow it to run at large upon any
public place or upon any private property, other than its owner’s. However,
working dogs, such as lead dogs, guard dogs, farm dogs, hunting dogs, police
dogs, and other similar dogs that are trained need not be leashed when under
the control of its owner.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 90.02 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS.
   All dogs in the town shall be kept under restraint at all times.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-14-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 IMPOUNDMENT AND FEES.
   Rules and regulations for impounding an animal are set by county ordinances.
The schedule of all fees and charges are set by county ordinances.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 90.04 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any domestic animal
upon any public place, including the right-of-way of any public highway, or
upon the property of another.
   (B)   No owner shall fail to provide his or her animals with good and
wholesome food and water daily, proper shelter and protection from the weather,
and veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering.
   (C)   No person shall maliciously injure or kill any dog or domestic animal
by administering poison, by means of deadly weapons, or in any other manner.
   (D)   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the immediate
removal of any excreta deposited by his or her animals on public property or on
the private property of others.
   (E)   The Town Council has the authority to implement a tag requirement and
set fees for such.
   (F)   Every female dog in estrus (heat) shall be confined in a building or
secure enclosure so that the dog cannot come into contact with another dog,
except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-14-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 NUISANCE.
   Each owner shall exercise proper care and control of his or her domestic
animal(s) as to prevent the following actions by the animal(s):
   (A)   Molesting of passerby;
   (B)   Chasing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private or public property;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise which cause serious
annoyance or disturbance to the neighborhood; or
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which are offensive to persons in
the neighborhood.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-14-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 KENNEL STANDARDS FOR GUARD AND SENTRY DOGS.
   Any kennel shall, in addition to other requirements of this subchapter,
comply with the standards of this section whenever any dog is trained as a
guard or sentry dog.
   (A)   Runs shall have at least eight feet high fences completely surrounding
them to which are to be added anti-climbers or the top must be completely
covered.
   (B)   All gates and entrances to the runs, kennels, and training area shall
be kept locked when not in use.
   (C)   A perimeter fence of at least eight feet high shall be installed to
encircle the training and kennel area to which are to be added anti-climbers.
Fences shall be maintained and escape-proof.
   (D)   Dogs in training as a guard or sentry shall be confined at all times
to its kennel or run training area unless it is under the control of its
handler.
   (E)   Any person involved in training of guard or sentry dogs shall notify
the town officials in writing that they are operating a training business, and
have completed a recognized course to qualify for giving that training or be
able to demonstrate equivalent experience in giving that training.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In addition to, or instead of, impounding a domestic animal found at
large (not in restraint), any animal control officer, police officer, or law
enforcement officer, so authorized, may issue to the owner of an animal a
citation specifying the provision of the code section violated and indicating
the specific nature of the violation. That citation shall impose upon the owner
of the animal an obligation of appearance in the court to answer the charges in
the citation at the time and place indicated in the citation.
   (B)   Any animal control officer, police officer, or law enforcement officer
in the county or town is expressly authorized to write and issue this citation.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-14-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
VICIOUS DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that, without provocation, and subject to the exclusion
set forth below, has chased or approached in either a menacing fashion or an
apparent attitude of attack, or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any
person while that dog is off the premises of its owner, keeper, or harborer, or
some other responsible person, or not physically restrained or confined in a
locked pen which has a top, locked fenced yard, or other locked enclosure which
has a top. DANGEROUS DOG does not include a police dog that has chased or
approached in either a menacing fashion or an apparent attitude of attack, or
has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any person while the police dog is
being used to assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of
their official duties.
   MENACING FASHION. A dog that would cause any person being chased or
approached to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to
that person.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, or corporation owning, keeping, or harboring
one or more animals. Any animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or
sheltered for three consecutive days or more.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any dog or dogs that, unprovoked, unreasonably annoy
humans, endanger the life or health of other animals or persons, or
substantially interfere with the rights of citizens, other than their owners,
to enjoyment of life or property. The term PUBLIC NUISANCE shall mean and
include, but is not limited to, any dog that, unprovoked:
      (1)   Is repeatedly found at large;
      (2)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
      (3)   Molests or intimidates pedestrians or passersby;
      (4)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing
unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others in
close proximity to the premises where the dog is kept or harbored; or
      (5)   Attacks other animals.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   A dog that, without provocation and subject to the exclusions set
forth below, meets any of the following:
         (a)   It has killed or caused injury to any person;
         (b)   It has caused injury or has killed another animal; or
         (c)   Belongs to a breed that is commonly known as a fighting dog, the
ownership, keeping, or harboring of such a breed shall be prima facie evidence
of the ownership, keeping, or harboring of a VICIOUS DOG.
      (2)   A VICIOUS DOG does not include either of the following:
         (a)   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person or that has caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties; or
         (b)   A dog that has killed or caused injury to any person while a
person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other criminal
offense on the property of the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-24-2010)
§ 90.21 REGULATION OF DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous or vicious dog shall fail
to do either of the following, except when the dog is lawfully engaged in
hunting or training for the purpose of hunting, accompanied by the owner,
keeper, harborer, or a handler:
      (1)   While that dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, securely confine it at all times in a locked pen which has a top, and
either has a bottom secured to the sides or the sides are embedded in the
ground no less that one foot, or such other locked enclosure meeting the same
criteria, except that a dangerous dog but not a vicious dog, may, in the
alternative, be kept in a locked, fenced yard or be tied with a leash or tether
so that the dog is adequately restrained;
      (2)   While that dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, keep it on a chain link leash or tether that is not more than 12 feet
in length and additionally do at least one of the following:
         (a)   Keep that dog in a locked pen which has a top, a locked fenced
yard, or other locked enclosure which has a top;
         (b)   By a person who is responsible and at least 18 years of age; or
securely attach, tie, or affix the leash or tether to the ground or on a
stationary object or fixture so that the dog is adequately restrained and
station such a person in close enough proximity to the dog so as to prevent it
from causing injury to any person; or
         (c)   Muzzle the dog.
      (3)   When the dog is a vicious dog, the owner, keeper, or harborer shall
keep the dog confined as set forth in division (A)(1) above, except when said
dog is on a leash or tether as described in division (A)(2) above, then said
owner, keeper, or harborer shall additionally keep said dog muzzled at all
times, whether on or off the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer.
   (B)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a vicious dog shall fail to obtain
liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write liability insurance in
this state providing coverage in each occurrence; subject to a limit, exclusive
of interest and costs, of not less than $100,000 because of damage or bodily
injury to or death of a person caused by the vicious dog.
   (C)   Any person who is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a vicious dog and
who transfers the ownership, care, or custody of said vicious dog shall notify
the Town Marshal of such transfer, within 48 hours of the occurrence thereof.
   (D)   The owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous or vicious dog shall
post a sign at the normal main entrance to their premises where it will be
readily visible by anyone, and especially children, coming to their property,
which sign shall be no less than 16 inches by 16 inches in size; shall have
black letters on a yellow background; the letters shall be no less than two
inches high and one-half inch in thickness, and which sign shall say “BEWARE
VICIOUS DOG” or “BEWARE DANGEROUS DOG”.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-24-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 KILLING DOG APPROACHING IN A MENACING FASHION.
   A dog that is chasing or approaching in a menacing fashion or apparent
attitude of attack, that attempts to bite or otherwise endanger, or that kills
or injures a person, or a dog that chases, injures, or kills livestock,
poultry, other domestic animals or other animal that is the property of another
person, can be killed at the time of that chasing, approaching attempt,
killing, or injury. If, in attempting to kill such a dog, a person wounds it,
he or she is not liable to prosecution under the penal laws that punish cruelty
to animals.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-24-2010)
§ 90.23 OFFENDER TO PAY EXPENSES; DETERMINATION OF DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS STATUS;
AND NOTICE.
   In the event a violation of §
90.21 involves a vicious dog, the court shall order the offender to obtain
liability insurance pursuant to §
90.21; and the court, in addition to any other penalty, shall also order that
the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county
animal control officer, or the county animal shelter and that the offender
shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food, veterinary, and/or destruction
expenses necessitated by the seizure of any dog for the protection of the
public or the violation of §
90.21.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-24-2010)
§ 90.24 CAUSING A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   No person shall possess a dog that constitutes a public nuisance as defined
in §
90.20.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-24-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
90.07 shall be deemed to have committed an ordinance violation and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $1,000. Each day a violation occurs or
continues constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Persons who violate any provision of §
90.21 shall be subject to a penalty of at least $500 but not more than $1,000
for the first offense, with a penalty for each subsequent offense being $1,000.
In the event the person has no additional violations of §
90.21 for a period of 12 consecutive months, the penalty for any violation of §
90.21 after that period shall be at least $500 but not more than $3,000 for the
first offense with the penalty for each subsequent offense being $1,000. In
addition to the penalties prescribed above, the court shall order the offender
to personally supervise the dog that he or she owns, keeps, or harbors to
complete obedience training and show the obedience training certificate to the
court or move the dog out of the town.
      (2)   Persons who violate the provisions of §
90.24 shall be subject to a penalty of $50 for the first offense, with the
penalty for the next offense of said section in the amount of $100, and the
third offense shall permit the animal control officer to seize and retain the
animal. In the event that such person has no additional violations of §
90.24 for a period of 12 consecutive months, the penalty for any violation of §
90.24 after that period shall start the sequence over at the first offense.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-14-1996; Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-24-2010)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
Abandoned Vehicles
   
91.01   State law adopted
   
91.02   Enforcement authority
   
91.03   Unregistered and unlicensed motor vehicles
   
91.04   Inoperable vehicles
   
91.05   Abandonment prohibited
   
91.06   Junk vehicles prohibited
   
91.07   Major overhaul
   
91.08   Recreational vehicles and school buses
   
91.09   Storage of medium-duty trucks and equipment
   
91.10   Commercial, industrial or heavy vehicles and equipment
   
91.11   Tagging abandoned vehicles
Weeds
   
91.25   Cutting grass required
   
91.26   Definition
   
91.27   Notice of noncompliance
   
91.28   Town to abate nuisance
   
91.29   Appeal to Town Council
   
91.30   Administration
   
91.31   Administrative fee
Open Burning
   
91.45   Burning prohibited
   
91.46   Exemptions
   
91.47   Emergency burning
   
91.48   Liability
   
91.49   Enforcement
Nuisances Generally
   
91.60   State regulations
   
91.61   Public nuisances
   
91.62   Nuisances prohibited; procedure
   
91.63   Creator of nuisance liable
 
   
91.99   Penalty
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 91.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
    This subchapter specifically adopts the provisions, not inconsistent with
provisions specifically adopted in this subchapter, of I.C. 9-22-1-1 through 9-
22-1-32 inclusive.
(Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   A representative of the town's Building Department, a representative of the
town's Planning and Zoning Department, or any member of the town's Police
Department is hereby designated to carry out the provisions of this subchapter
and state law. For the purposes of this subchapter, the preceding authorized
persons may hereafter be referred to as "officer".
(Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 91.03 UNREGISTERED AND UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall park or permit any other person to park any motor
vehicle, except a motor vehicle parked within a carport or enclosed building,
on any property in a residential district if the vehicle:
      (1)   Is unregistered;
      (2)   Has expired registration; or
      (3)   Does not have a lawful license plate or lawful temporary tag, which
plate or tag is currently registered to that vehicle displayed thereon.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above, up to three collector cars may be stored
outside if the under fitted car covers of neutral color and in good condition,
with no rips or holes. Such collector cars must not be parked within 20 feet of
the front or rear property line or within ten feet of the side property lines.
(Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of any property shall park any inoperable vehicle
or permit any other person to park any inoperable vehicle on the owner's or
occupant's property for more than 14 days, unless the inoperable vehicle is
parked within a carport or enclosed structure. This section does not apply to
property for which the zoning code permits the storage of junk vehicles outside
an enclosed building in connection with some commercial enterprise.
   (B)   No person shall park an inoperable vehicle upon any public or private
road or other public property.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, up to three collector cars may be
stored outside on the owner's or occupant's property, if concealed under fitted
car covers of neutral color and in good condition, with no rips or holes. Such
collector cars must not be parked within 20 feet of the front or rear property
line or within ten feet of the side property lines.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to an inoperable vehicle that is used for
instruction at an educational institution licensed under state school laws.
(Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to abandon any motor vehicle. Any motor vehicle
abandoned within the town shall be disposed of by the proper authorities.
(Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain and/or keep any junk
vehicles on any property adjoining or abutting any public or private road,
street or other public or private property within the unincorporated portions
of the city, and visible from such public or private road, street, way or other
public or private property, unless the junk vehicle is parked within a carport
or enclosed structure. This section does not apply to property for which the
zoning code permits the storage of junk vehicles outside an enclosed building
in connection with some commercial enterprise.
   (B)   No person shall park a junk vehicle upon any private or public road or
other public property.
(Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 MAJOR OVERHAUL.
   (A)   No person shall perform a major overhaul of any vehicle or permit any
other person to perform a major overhaul of any vehicle on property in a
residential zone, unless;
      (1)   The person performing the overhaul is the occupant of the property;
      (2)   The person performing the overhaul is the owner of the vehicle; and
      (3)   The work is done inside a garage or enclosed structure, or if the
major overhaul of such a vehicle on property in a residential zone must be
completed outside of a garage or enclosed structure, it must be completed
within 30 days.
   (B)   No person shall perform a major overhaul of any vehicle or permit any
other person to perform a major overhaul of any vehicle on any property in a
business, commercial, or industrial district unless the overhaul is performed
at an approved licensed and properly zoned establishment.
(Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   In residential districts, recreational vehicles and school buses may
be parked or stored in an enclosed garage or carport. It shall be unlawful to
park recreational vehicles and school buses in the front yard of any
residential district, unless such recreational vehicle and/or school bus is
parked more than 20 feet from the road right-of-way; and provided that no more
than a total of two recreational vehicles or two school buses, or a combination
of one recreational vehicle and one school bus may be parked in the front yard.
   (B)   Additionally, in residential districts, recreational vehicles and
school buses may be parked to the rear and sides of a dwelling.
   (C)   No such permitted recreational vehicle shall have attachments such as
stairs, steps, handrails, porches, decks and the like.
   (D)   In residential districts, no more than a total of two recreational
vehicles or two school buses, or a combination of one recreational vehicle and
one school bus may be parked on a vacant and/or unimproved lot, and in such
case, any such permitted vehicle may only be parked if a minimum of 20 feet
from the road right-of-way.
(Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 STORAGE OF MEDIUM-DUTY TRUCKS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Medium-duty items.
      (1)   On any residentially zoned property, no more than one of each of
the following may be stored other than in an approved enclosed garage or
carport:
         (a)   A medium-duty truck;
         (b)   A medium-duty trailer; and/or
         (c)   A medium-duty piece of equipment.
      (2)   Such medium-duty items must remain more than 20 feet from the
public road right-of-way.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to farm equipment reasonable needed and
exclusively used for agricultural operations on the property on which it is
stored.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to medium-duty trucks and equipment that
are being used in construction of structures or dwellings so long as such
medium-duty trucks and equipment are not stored on the property for more than
15 days.
(Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL OR HEAVY VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park, or cause to be parked, any commercial,
industrial, or heavy vehicles or equipment on residentially zoned property.
   (B)   Division (A) shall not apply to any vehicle that is temporarily parked
or left standing clearly for the purpose of loading or unloading, provided the
vision of traffic is not obstructed. For the purposes of this division, a
reasonable amount of time shall be allowed for loading and unloading, the
amount of which is to be determined according to the nature and extent of the
loading and unloading operation.
   (C)   Division (A) shall not apply to any vehicle or equipment that is
reasonably needed and exclusively used for an approved agricultural purpose on
the parcel on which it is stored, provided that such vehicles and equipment are
not within 20 feet of a public road right-of-way.
   (D)   Division (A) shall not apply to a single roll-off bin or a single
dumpster when used in conjunction with the construction, remodeling or
demolition of a structure. Such use, however, must be temporary and closely
correspond to the construction, remodeling or demolition schedule. Such use
shall be expressly for the collection of construction debris, and at no time
shall sanitary waste be dumped into said container.
   (E)   Division (A) does not apply to school buses, provided that the parking
of school buses is done in accordance with §
91.07.
(Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 TAGGING ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   An officer who finds or is notified of vehicles believed to be abandoned
shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following
information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer's name, public agency, and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
   (B)   That the vehicle is considered abandoned;
   (C)   That the vehicle will be removed after;
      (1)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way;
      (2)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle in other areas.
   (D)   That person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle;
   (E)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by the removal of
the vehicle or parts within:
      (1)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way or property (including private);
      (2)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle in other areas.
(Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021)
WEEDS
§ 91.25 CUTTING GRASS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Owners of real property located within the town are required to cut
and remove weeds and other rank vegetation growing on the property.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for the owners of real
property located within the town to fail to cut and remove weeds and other rank
vegetation growing on their property.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 5-1-2018) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION. Includes the following:
      (1)   Noxious weeds as defined in I.C. 15-16-7-2 and detrimental plants
as defined in I.C. 15-16-8-1, grass over eight inches in height, and any other
plant, weed, or rank vegetation over eight inches in height which are not mowed
at least once a month in April and October, and at least twice a month during
the months of May through September;
      (2)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery, or other vegetation with less
than 14 feet clearance over, along, and across streets and alley ways, or less
than eight feet clearance along or across the sidewalks;
      (3)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery, or other vegetation that
prevents adequate visibility at street and alley intersections or which blocks
the view of any street or traffic sign, signal, or device;
      (4)   Shrubbery or vegetation in excess of three feet in height within a
radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any street intersects
the curb line of another street;
      (5)   Unmowed grasses or other vegetation in excess of eight inches in
height or which are not mowed at least once a month during the months of April
through October;
      (6)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery, or other vegetation which
interferes with street light or the convenient maintenance of street lights or
obstructs the light from the street lights;
      (7)   Any trees, shrubbery, or unauthorized vegetation planted within the
public right-of-way of any street, alley, or public way;
      (8)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery, or other vegetation which
creates or constitutes a hazard to the pedestrians, persons passing by, or the
public;
      (9)   Grass clippings, mowed grass, mowed leaves, and mowed debris cast
or blown onto or into the town’s streets, curbs, or alleys;
      (10)   Animal matter, including, but not limited to, carcasses,
skeletons, or feces;
      (11)   Trash, including, but not limited to, appliances, furniture, or
rubbish of any kind; and
      (12)   Any disagreeable substances which may be harmful, hazardous,
poisonous, and odorous or which may breed insects or draw vermin.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 5-1-2018)
§ 91.27 NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any landowner and person having substantial interest in the property
found to be violating this subchapter shall be given written notice thereof,
issued by the Building Inspector of the town, which notice, together with a
copy of this subchapter, shall be served by the Town Marshal, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the landowner and
notifying the landowner that he or she has ten days to remove the weeds and
other rank vegetation growing on said property.
   (B)   (1)   The failure on the part of a property owner to receive or
collect his, her, or its mail shall not serve as a defense to abatement action,
or action to collect for the cost of abatement, administrative cost, or fines.
      (2)   The owner, agent, occupant, leaseholder, individuals(s), manager,
or representative shall have ten days from the date the above-referenced notice
is sent to take the necessary corrective actions or measures to comply with
this subchapter.
      (3)   The notice shall also inform the person receiving the same that in
the event the town is required to take whatever action is set forth in the
notice, that the expense incurred by the town shall be received by appropriate
legal action to obtain a lien against the real estate for expenses incurred,
that the person to whom the notice is given may be found to have committed a
Class A infraction and in addition to said expense shall suffer a fine of up to
but not exceeding $2,500 by a court of competent jurisdiction. The notice shall
also include, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-3, that the noxious weeds and/or rank
vegetation shall be removed by the town and any removal expenses, including
administrative costs of $250 per abatement action, if not paid as hereinafter
set forth, will be collected as delinquent taxes as defined in I.C. 36-7-10.1-
4. The notice shall also set forth that the bill is due and owing and must be
paid within 30 days of the date it is received.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-3(d), if the initial notice of the
violation was provided by the Town Marshal or deputy, certified mail, first
class mail, or equivalent service under I.C. 36-7-10.1-3(c), a continuous
abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time of abatement instead
of certified mail, first class mail, or equivalent service as required under
I.C. 36-7-10.1-3(c). This shall be in the form of a notice posted on the
residence or on a sign located on the property. A continuous abatement notice
serves as notice to the real property owner that each subsequent violation
during the same year for which the initial notice of the violation was provided
may be abated by the town or its contractors.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 5-1-2018)
§ 91.28 TOWN TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   (1)   If the landowner fails to remove such weeds and other rank
vegetation within the prescribed time, the town shall enter upon the property
and abate the violation by the removal of said weeds and other rank vegetation.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified statement of the actual
costs incurred by the town in abating said violation, including administrative
costs and removal costs, and shall serve a copy of said certified statement
upon the owner of such real estate and person having substantial interest
therein, by personal service by the Town Marshal or deputy or by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of said owner.
      (3)   Said owner shall have 30 days from receipt of said statement in
which to pay the bill of abatement costs by payment thereof to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town. The Building Inspector shall provide an invoice
detailing the costs to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   If such owner fails to pay said bill for abatement costs within the
prescribed time, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify to the County Auditor the
amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the
certification. The Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the tax
duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount, including any
accrued interest shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall
be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
   (C)   The abatement costs to address violations of this subchapter are as
follows (with a one-hour minimum):
Activity Cost
Activity              Cost
Backhoe/bobcat use    $50/hour
Lawn mower labor      $25/hour
Town employee labor   $26/hour per employee
Town truck use        $25/hour
Tractor/bushog use    $50/hour
Trailer use           $25/hour
Transfer station cost Actual cost
Weed removal labor    $10/hour
 
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 5-1-2018; Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 91.29 APPEAL TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   Any landowner desiring to appeal either the violation of this subchapter or
the bill for abatement costs certified by the Clerk-Treasurer shall, within ten
days of receipt of notice thereof, file a written statement requesting an
appeal with the Town Council, and such matter shall be heard by the Town
Council at its next regular Town Council meeting unless otherwise determined.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 5-1-2018)
§ 91.30 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Council shall be responsible for the administration of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 5-1-2018)
§ 91.31 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   In addition to the costs of abatement, said landowner is subject to a fine
up to $2,500 and an administrative fee of $250, which may be issued by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 5-1-2018)
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.45 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful at all times to cause, suffer, or allow any open
burning at any place within the town except as permitted in this subchapter;
provided, no person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit the emission into the
atmosphere of any substance or combination of substances from the burning of
any product in such quantities as to cause annoyance or constitute a nuisance
so as to interfere with the health or well-being of any individual in his or
her home or place of employment or recreation or as to interfere with the
normal use and enjoyment of any such place. The burning of leaves and garbage
is prohibited.
   (B)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds, or air stagnation.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 10-28-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.46 EXEMPTIONS.
   Open burning that does not create a nuisance or a fire hazard and is
attended by a responsible person at all times until completely extinguished is
allowed for the following purposes.
   (A)   Open burning of wood products.
      (1)   A bonfire in connection with a religious ceremony, school pep
rallies, scouting activities, and similar purposes. Permit needed. Permits will
be issued by the town’s Police Department at least 48 hours’ in advance of the
scheduled event and will expire 72 hours after the scheduled event; and
      (2)   Campfires and fires for cookouts.
   (B)   Open burning of agricultural wastes.
      (1)   Open burning of vegetative matter grown on the premises in the
course of agricultural operations, when it can be shown that such open burning
is necessary and that no fire hazard will occur, provided the person intending
to dispose of vegetative matter by open burning obtains approval from the Fire
Department that has jurisdiction.
      (2)   Any burning of agricultural waste permitted under the provision of
this division (B) shall be allowed only between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 7:
00 p.m., and only at times when the actual or forecast wind speed as given by
the local National Weather Service is greater than five mph and less than 20
mph. Such fires shall consist of vegetative matter only.
   (C)   Stoves for heating and fireplaces. Fires shall be permitted in wood
stoves for heating and fireplaces.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 10-28-2002)
§ 91.47 EMERGENCY BURNING.
   (A)   The town’s Police Department or the town’s Fire Chief may allow
emergency burning of petroleum products, high explosives, or other dangerous
materials where such fires are properly controlled by a responsible person and
are deemed necessary in the public interest.
   (B)   The town’s Police Department or the town’s Fire Chief may allow open
burning of refuse consisting of material resulting from a disaster if the town
has declared such a disaster in the area.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 10-28-2002)
§ 91.48 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible
material that constitutes or contributes to a fire shall not be excused from
responsibility on the basis that such fire was accidental or an act of God.
   (B)   The person in possession of property where open burning in violation
of §§
91.45 to
91.49 and its regulations shall be prima facie liable for the violation.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 10-28-2002)
§ 91.49 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The open burning provisions of this subchapter are enforceable by the
duly appointed fire prevention or law enforcement officers within the town,
acting on their own initiative or at the request of the Town Council.
   (B)   Violation of these infractions can be enforced by members of the
town’s Police Department or the town’s Fire Chief.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 10-28-2002)
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 91.60 STATE REGULATIONS.
   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Ord. 1994-6, passed 7-13-1994)
§ 91.61 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the town to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or
other object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt,
damage, or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another;
      (3)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more; and
      (4)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes
with the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes
injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
(Ord. 1994-6, passed 7-13-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.62 NUISANCES PROHIBITED; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the town to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon.
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the Town’s Council shall
give five days’ written notice to remedy the nuisance situation. The notice
shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of property, as it
appears on the current tax assessment roll. Upon the failure of the owner of
the property to comply, the town’s Building Inspector is authorized to send
employees upon the property to remedy the situation.
   (C)   The town shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance situation. The
affidavit of the Building Inspector shall constitute prima facie evidence of
the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings and shall be
recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all
persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest at 6% per annum
thereafter until paid.
(Ord. 1994-6, passed 7-13-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.63 CREATOR OF NUISANCE LIABLE.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(Ord. 1994-6, passed 7-13-1994)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)    Violating any of the terms of §§
91.01 to
91.11 shall be subject to fines amount not less than $75. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. It is the intent of the town
that multiple violations should be fined more severely.
   (C)   (1)   A person violating open burning provisions of §§
91.45 to
91.49 may be served by an authorized enforcement person with a notice of
violation. The person upon whom a notice of violation is served may admit
liability to the violation as provided in §§
91.45 to
91.49 and pay a civil penalty of $25 directly to the town.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the authorized enforcement person, the
violation is so substantial as to warrant a more severe penalty, the authorized
enforcement person may issue a notice of violation and citation to appear in
the superior or circuit court for determination of the alleged violation of §§
91.45 to
91.49. This violation will be a Class C infraction.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in §§
91.45 to
91.49, any person found in violation of the open burning provisions of §§
91.45 to
91.49 shall be fined in accordance with §§
91.45 to
91.49. Each day in violation shall be considered a separate violation. The town
may also seek an injunction to prevent further violation of §§
91.45 to
91.49.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 10-28-2002; Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC PLACES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Possession of alcohol on town properties prohibited
   
92.02   Streets and sidewalks
   92.03   Town parks rules
Littering
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Littering in public places
   
92.17   Maintenance of private property free of litter
   
92.18   Littering from vehicles
   
92.19   Grass clipping and leaves
   
92.20   Tampering with receptacles
   
92.21   Issuing tickets for violations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOL ON TOWN PROPERTIES PROHIBITED.
   No person may have in their possession, or in the passenger compartment of
any motor vehicle they occupy, any alcoholic beverage in an open container or
in a container on which the seal has been broken if that person is:
   (A)   On any “town property”, which is defined herein, including parks and
recreation facilities (park grounds) operated by Town of Hanover Park Board
(hereinafter referred to as Parks Board), with the exception of property leased
to a non-municipal entity, or division (B) of this section.
   (B)   (1)   There may be drinking of alcoholic beverages on park grounds
during “permitted events”, which is defined herein.
      (2)   In the event alcohol will be supplied or sold at the permitted
event by a person/entity, at least five business days prior to a permitted
event, the person/entity responsible for the event shall submit a list of the
names and addresses of each person serving alcohol and must also provide a copy
of their license to serve alcohol, as well as the hosting entity’s temporary
permit from Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission (IATC).
      (3)   Additionally, the person/entity responsible for the permitted event
at which alcoholic beverages will be served shall provide the town with proof
of insurance for public liability and liquor liability coverage, which shall
include proof of both public liability insurance and liquor liability insurance
in an amount not less than $1,000,000 each, wherein the town/Parks Board are
additional named insureds. The hosting entity shall also provide proof of
insurance from any vendor selling alcohol at the permitted event of liquor
liability insurance coverage naming the town/Parks Board as an additional
insured. Any person/entity who is responsible for the permitted event agrees to
indemnify and hold the town and Parks Board harmless from any loss, damage, or
injury of any nature arising out of or from for their use of the grounds. Use
of the grounds, park and recreation facilities is subject to completion of all
other rental/use forms required by the Parks Board. The serving and use of
alcohol is subject to state law and any misuse shall be prosecuted accordingly.
   (C)   TOWN PROPERTY includes all property owned by the town and included
town-owned buildings, town-owned parking lots, and parks.
   (D)   PERMITTED EVENT is an event where alcohol will be sold or otherwise
provided under a temporary beer and wine permit issued by the IATC and when
such event has been authorized by the Parks Board prior to the event.
   (E)   It shall be a Class C infraction for a person to knowingly violate
this section. Violations of this section may be resolved by entering an
admission of violation with the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau, together
with payment of a civil penalty of $75 for each violation admitted. In
addition, all other provisions of Chapter 35 shall apply to violations thus
resolved.
   (F)   Violations of this section shall be prosecuted in the county superior
court or other appropriate court by the Town Attorney if not paid to the town’s
Ordinance Violation Bureau.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 6-19-2006; Ord. 2023-7, passed 2-7-2023)
§ 92.02 STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The streets, sidewalks, bridges, and public places of the town shall
be maintained open at all times for travel by vehicles and pedestrians and for
all other proper public uses and purposes. No part thereof, or any spaces above
or below such public ways, except as otherwise authorized by state statute, or
by any other town ordinance, shall be used for any private purpose or business.
Except as may be so authorized, no use shall be permitted which affects the
orderly appearance thereof, or obstructs or hinders public travel thereover,
contrary to the public safety and welfare.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be a Class C infraction, and any
person violating the section shall be fined accordingly for each violation.
(Ord. 1999-18, passed 9-15-1999)
§ 92.03 TOWN PARKS RULES.
   (A)   Firearms. No firearms or bows and arrows shall be permitted on park
grounds at any time. Provided, however, that this restriction shall not be
applicable to duly authorized law enforcement personnel.
   (B)   Park hours. Use of park facilities shall be limited to the following
times: 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Exceptions to the time limits provided herein
above may be granted in writing by the Town Park Board under circumstances, as
said Park Board and the Town Council may deem proper.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined in accordance with the provisions of §
35.09, being in park at night.
(Ord. 2024-9, passed 8-20-2024)
LITTERING
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Any human-made or human-used waste, which, if deposited within the
town otherwise than in a litter receptacle, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety, and welfare or to impair the environment of the people of the
town. LITTER shall include, but is not limited to, garbage, trash, refuse,
debris, grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, paper products, glass,
metal, plastic or paper containers, motor vehicle parts, furniture, carcasses
of dead animals, or any other waste material of any unsightly, unsanitary,
nauseous, or offensive nature.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property, including, but not limited to, vacant land
or any land upon which is located one or more buildings or other structures
designed or used for residential, commercial, business, industrial,
institutional, or religious purposes, together with any yard, grounds, walk,
driveway, fence, porch, or other structure or improvement appurtenant to said
land, except any public place.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, curbs and gutters, alleys, or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, lakes, spaces, grounds, or buildings
within the corporate limits of said town or owned by said town.
(Ord. 1993-6, passed 5-5-1993)
§ 92.16 LITTERING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, cause, or allow to be thrown
or disposed of in any manner, any litter along or on any public place, except
in authorized litter receptacles maintained on such public place or public
property.
(Ord. 1993-6, passed 5-5-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall at all times
maintain such private premises free of litter that is capable of being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any public place or other private premises.
(Ord. 1993-6, passed 5-5-1993)
§ 92.18 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any loaded truck or other vehicle within
the town unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any part
of its load, contents, or litter from being blown or deposited upon any public
place or private premises.
(Ord. 1993-6, passed 5-5-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 GRASS CLIPPING AND LEAVES.
   No person shall discharge or permit the discharge of grass clippings and/or
leaves upon any public street, alley, or any surface water gutter, drain, or
ditch in the town.
(Ord. 1993-6, passed 5-5-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 TAMPERING WITH RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed
or used for the deposit of litter.
(Ord. 1993-6, passed 5-5-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 ISSUING TICKETS FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Parks Manager and Pool Supervisor shall issue tickets only for
violations of ordinances 1993-6 (littering in public places and/or tampering
with litter receptacles), 1996-2 (abusing or failing to restrain animals),
1999-18 (blocking or affecting the orderly appearance of public ways), and
other ordinances which may subsequently be added to this list by action of the
Council.
   (B)   The Special Deputy (Building Inspector) shall issue tickets only for
violations of this subchapter and ordinances 2014-15 (maintaining an unsafe
building), 1994-6 (accumulating rubbish, allowing excessive growth of grass or
weeds, and the like), 1999-18 (blocking or affecting the orderly appearance of
public ways and the like), 2018-12 (abandoning vehicles), and other ordinances
which may subsequently be added to this list by action of the Council.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-7-2006)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
92.15 to
92.20 shall be guilty of a municipal ordinance violation punishable by a
municipal fine of $5 for the first violation, $25 for the second violation, and
$50 for the third and each subsequent violation occurring during the same
calendar year.
(Ord. 1993-6, passed 5-5-1993)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
93.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
93.10   Exceptions
   
93.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 93.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The state’s Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04 to
93.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined above in “familial status”.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP. 
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. ; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802, 910 I.A.C.
2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite (910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
93.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and §
93.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   Facilitates or services in two or more transactions involving the
sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-2-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §§
93.03(B) and
93.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin,
or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of (H)(3)(c)3; and
   (J)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-2-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-2-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-2-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
93.03 to
93.06.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-2-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state, and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if
death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 93.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. Part 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. Part 574.3 the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 93.10 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-2-2016)
§ 93.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the state’s Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief
elected official of the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C.
22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-2-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS PERMITS
      
111.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS PERMITS
Section
Commercial Compost
   
110.01   Permit requirement
   
110.02   Administration
   
110.03   Owner’s responsibility
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
   Town policies, see
Ch. 33
COMMERCIAL COMPOST
§ 110.01 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   Any commercial enterprise that generates compostable materials wishing to
use the town’s compost site must first obtain an annual commercial compost
permit from the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 3-6-2012)
§ 110.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall be responsible for the
administration of this subchapter and will collect a fee of $500 for an annual
compost permit fee. Said permit shall permit the contractor to use the compost
center during the calendar year. All commercial compost permits shall expire on
December 31 of the year they are issued. The funds received for the purchase of
commercial compost permits shall be deposited in the Solid Waste and Recycling
Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 3-6-2012)
§ 110.03 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, officer, or employees of any commercial
enterprise which accumulates or generates any compost materials in the regular
course of its business, to deliver materials to the town’s compost site for use
by the town without first obtaining a commercial compost permit.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 3-6-2012) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any commercial enterprise that violates the terms of §§
110.01 to
110.03 and utilizes the town compost site without a valid permit will be
assessed a fee of $750 to obtain a permit for the calendar year of the
violation.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 3-6-2012)
CHAPTER 111: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Purpose and intent
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Establishment and classification of business regulated
   
111.04   Measurements of distance
   
111.05   Operation of sexually oriented businesses
   
111.06   Regulations governing existing sexually oriented businesses
   
111.07   Injunction
Sexually Oriented Business Permits
   
111.20   Purpose and intent
   
111.21   Permit required
   
111.22   Investigation and application
   
111.23   Issuance of permit
   
111.24   Annual permit fee
   
111.25   Inspection
   
111.26   Expiration of permit
   
111.27   Suspension of permit
   
111.28   Revocation of permit
   
111.29   Judicial review of permit denial, suspension, or revocation
   
111.30   Transfer of permit
   
111.31   Prohibitions regarding minors and sexually oriented businesses
   
111.32   Advertising regulations
   
111.33   Hours of operation
   
111.34   Public nudity
   
111.35   Operation without a valid permit
   
111.36   Exemptions
   
111.37   Immunity from prosecution
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
citizens of the town and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent any deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the town, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse
secondary effects from such sexually oriented businesses. The provisions of
this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually
oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this
chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials
protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and
exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither
is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the
distribution of obscene material.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business
after the adoption of this chapter;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, if not a sexually oriented
business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this chapter;
      (3)   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in
this chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of human bare buttock, anus, male
genitals, female genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or a
state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human buttocks, anus,
male or female genitals, pubic region, or areola or nipple of the female
breast.
   OPERATOR. Includes the owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator,
or person in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned, leased, or held by the United States,
the state, the county, the town, any special district, school district, or any
other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States, which
building is used for governmental purposes.
   PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREA. Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities, including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis court, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or
similar public land within the town which is under the control, operation, or
management of the federal or state government or any political subdivision.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility, including, but not
limited to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, colleges, and universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but
does not include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only
incidentally as a school.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Those businesses defined as follows.
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or motion picture projectors, slide projectors, or similar
machines, or other image producing machines, for viewing by five or fewer
persons each, are regularly used to show films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are characterized
by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, OR ADULT VIDEO STORE. A
commercial establishment which has a significant or substantial portion of its
stock-in-trade or derives 25% or more of its revenues to the sale, rental for
any form of consideration, of any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”;
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others; and
         (c)   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that
do not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials depicting
or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”,
and still be categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, OR ADULT
VIDEO STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY
STORE, OR ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified
materials which depict or describe “specified anatomical areas” or “specified
sexual activities”.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant “bottle club”, or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features: persons who appear semi-nude or in a state of
semi-nudity; live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (4)   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment
which: offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical area” and which advertises the
availability of this sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign
visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of any off-premises
advertising, including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or
leaflets, radio or television, or offers a sleeping room for rent for a period
of time less than ten hours; or allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the
sleeping room for a time period of less than ten hours.
      (5)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly
shown for any form of consideration.
      (6) ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of semi-nudity or live performances
which are characterized by exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by
“specified sexual activities”.
      (7)   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or
offers to act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees
or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for
another person.
      (8)   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
      (9)   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, a massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or
magnetic treatments, or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body
occurs as a part of or in connection with “specified sexual activities”, or
where any person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related
thereto, exposes his or her “specified anatomical areas”. The definition of
sexually oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in any
licensed hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician,
surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath, or certified massage therapist, nor by any
nurse or technician working under the supervision of a licensed physician,
surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath, or certified massage therapist, nor by
trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional, or professional athlete or athletic
team or school athletic program.
      (10)   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly
appears in a state of semi-nudity, is provided money or any form of
consideration, to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.
      (11)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial
establishment that, as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any
form of consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate,
associate, or consort for the purposes of “specified sexual activities” when
one or more of the persons is semi-nude. The definition of sexually oriented
businesses shall not include an establishment where a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
   PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that requires a license and/or
permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
   PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE. A person in whose name a permit and/or license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual
listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or license.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE. A single family, duplex, townhouse, multiple
family, or mobile home park or subdivision and campground use or district as
defined in the town zoning ordinance.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, massage parlor, sexual encounter establishment, escort
agency, or semi-nude model studio.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other intentional touching of the human genitals,
pubic region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence; or
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (4) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Increase in the floor
areas occupied by the business of more than 15%.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; and
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal devise
which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
request or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.03 ESTABLISHMENT AND CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESS REGULATED.
   (A)   The establishment of a sexual oriented business shall be permitted
only in the appropriately designated zoned area and, in addition, shall be
subject to the following restriction.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any of the
following sexually oriented businesses, as defined in §
111.02, within 1,000 feet of another such business or within 1,000 feet of any
religious institution, school, boys’ club, girls’ club, or similar existing
youth organization, or public park or public building, or within 1,000 feet of
any property zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes and are
classified as follows:
      (1)   Adult arcade;
      (2)   Adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video store;
      (3)   Adult cabaret;
      (4)   Adult motel;
      (5)   Adult motion picture theater;
      (6)   Adult theater;
      (7)   Massage parlor;
      (8)   Sexual encounter establishment;
      (9)   Escort agency; or
      (10)   Nude model studio.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 MEASUREMENTS OF DISTANCE.
   As regarding §
111.03(B), distance between any two sexually oriented businesses shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the
closest exterior structural wall of each business. The distance between any
sexually oriented business and any religious institution, public or private
elementary or secondary school, boys’ club, girls’ club, or similar existing
youth organization, or public park or public building, or any properties zoned
for residential use or used for residential purposes shall also be measured in
a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as part of the premises where
the sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of
the premises of a religious institution, public or private elementary or
secondary school, boys’ club, girls’ club, or similar existing youth
organization, or public park or public building, or any properties zoned for
residential use or used for residential purposes.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.05 OPERATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   The town zoning ordinance may designate the area(s) in which sexually
oriented businesses are permitted and this chapter shall govern their location
and land use. In addition, any sexually oriented business not already in
operation at the time of adoption of this chapter shall be subject to the
following restrictions.
   (A)   A person shall not operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented
business except as provided by this chapter, including obtaining the
appropriate permit(s) and inspection(s).
   (B)   A person shall not operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented
business within 1,000 feet of: any religious institution; any school; the
boundary of any residential district; and a public park adjacent to any
residential district; a property line of a lot devoted to residential use; or a
boys’ club, girls’ club, or similar existing youth organization.
   (C)   A person shall not operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented
business within 1,000 feet of another such business, which will include, any
adult arcade, adult book store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel,
adult motion picture theater, adult theater, massage parlor, or any sexual
encounter establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not cause or permit the operation, establishment, or
maintenance of more than one sexually oriented business within the same
building, structure, or portion thereof, or cause the substantial enlargement
of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure, or portion
thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
   (E)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXISTING SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   If a sexually oriented business already in operation at the time of
adoption of this chapter should ever change locations, or add to its present
location so as to change the facade or frontage of the building from which it
operated at the time of adoption of this chapter, or to increase the square
footage used in the building it occupies or increase the size of the building
it currently inhabits, it will be subject to this chapter and will be required
to submit to the permit process as would any new sexually oriented business.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a non-conforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of a sexually oriented business permit and/or license, of a church,
public or private elementary or secondary school, public park, public building,
residential district, or residential lot within 1,000 feet of the sexually
oriented business. This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid permit
and/or license and does not apply when an application for a permit and/or
license is submitted after a permit and/or license has expired or has been
revoked.
   (C)   Any establishment subject to the provisions of this section shall
apply for the permit provided for by §
111.22 within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.07 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
subject to this chapter, without having a valid permit, or in violation of the
location restrictions, or any other provisions of this chapter, is subject to a
suit for injunction, and shall be liable for all attorney fees and costs
incurred by the town associated therewith, if the town is successful in
obtaining said injunction.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS PERMITS
§ 111.20 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
citizens of the town, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses within the town.
The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing
a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials.
   (B)   Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict
or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent or
effect of this chapter to in any way condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material or material harmful to minors.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.21 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business not already established at the time of
the enactment of this chapter shall be permitted to operate without a valid
sexually oriented business permit issued by the town for the particular type of
business. It shall be unlawful for a person to operate or cause to be operated
a non-exempt sexually oriented business without a permit.
   (B)   The Town Council or its designee is responsible for granting, denying,
revoking, renewing, suspending, and canceling sexually oriented business
permits for proposed or existing sexually oriented businesses. The Town Council
or its designee is also responsible for ascertaining whether a proposed
sexually oriented business for which a permit is being applied for complies
with all locational requirements of §§
111.02,
111.04, and
111.05 of this chapter, all applicable zoning laws and/or regulations now in
effect or as amended or enacted subsequent to the effective date of this
chapter.
      (1)   The Town Marshal is responsible for providing information on
whether an applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act.
      (2)   The Town Building Inspector is responsible for inspecting a
proposed, permitted, or non-permitted sexually oriented business in order to
ascertain whether it is in compliance with applicable statutes and ordinances.
   (C)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
town. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business shall file
with the town an original and two copies of a sworn permit application on the
standard application form supplied by the town to designee.
   (D)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents.
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he or she is 18 years of
age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any, and the name, address, and telephone
number of its agent for purposes of all legal notices and service of process;
or
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of the state, the names and capacity of all officers,
directors, and principal stockholders, and the name of the registered corporate
agent, the address of the registered corporate agent, and its registered
corporate agent’s telephone number, for service of process and all legal
notices.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state the
sexually oriented business’s fictitious name and submit the required state
registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to this section have been convicted of any criminal offense specified
in §
111.23(C)(1)(j), and, if so, identify the criminal act involved, the date of
conviction, and the place of conviction.
      (4)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals pursuant to
this section and/or licenses of this chapter has had a previous permit under
this chapter or other similar sexually oriented business ordinances from
another city or county denied, suspended, or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended, or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension, or
revocation, and whether the applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant
to this section has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director, or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is permitted under this chapter
whose permit has previously been denied, suspended, or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended, or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension, or
revocation. Further, the reason for such denial, revocation, or suspension
shall be stated, by the applicant, on the application (or attachment thereto)
in detail, and any document, notice, or other writing received by the applicant
evidencing such denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the
application.
      (5)   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
this section holds any other permits and/or licenses under this chapter or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinance(s) from another city, town,
or county and, if so, the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of such other
permitted businesses.
      (6)   The type of sexually oriented business the applicant is requesting
a permit for (as defined herein). Applicant’s requesting permits for more than
one type of sexually oriented business, as defined herein, shall apply
separately for each type of sexually oriented business.
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s),
if any.
      (8)   The applicant’s mailing addresses and residential address.
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s).
      (10)   The applicant’s driver’s license or identification card number and
state of issuance, Social Security number, and/or his or her state or federally
issued tax identification number.
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a state registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any established, existing sexually
oriented businesses regulated by this chapter within 1,000 feet of the location
to be certified; the property lines of any established religious institution/
synagogue, school, or public park or recreation area within 1,000 feet of the
location to be certified; and the property lines of any residentially zoned
areas or residential property within 1,000 feet of the location to be
certified. For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or
established if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted.
      (13)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he or she must sign the application for a permit as applicant,
under oath. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a permit as applicant, under oath.
If a corporation is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the
entity which wishes to operate such a business, each individual having a 10% or
greater interest in the corporation must sign the application for a permit as
applicant, under oath.
      (14)    If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business which
intends to exhibit on the premises films, video cassettes, or other video
reproductions which depict specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, then said person shall comply with the application requirements stated
in §
111.22.
   (E)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event that said information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with said continuing duty within 30 days
from the date of any such change, by supplementing the application on file with
the Town Council or its designee, shall be grounds for suspension of a permit.
   (F)   In the event that the Town Council or its designee determines or
learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed the application
for a proposed sexually oriented business, the Town Council shall promptly
notify the applicant of such fact and allow the applicant ten business days to
properly complete the application. (The time period for granting or denying a
permit shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is allowed an
opportunity to properly complete the application.)
   (G)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
health, fire, and building codes and laws.
   (H)   The applicant shall be required to pay a non-refundable application
fee of $250 at the time of filing an application under this section of this
chapter.
   (I)   Prior to obtaining any permit or license to operate any sexually
oriented business defined in this chapter, and as part of any application for a
permit under this section, the applicant shall obtain from the Town Council or
its designee a certification that the proposed location of such business
complies with the locational requirements of §§
111.04 and
111.05 of this chapter.
   (J) The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
and/or licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business permit.
   (K)   By applying for a permit under this chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the exercise
by the Town Council or its designee, the Town Marshal, and all other agencies
charged with enforcing the laws, ordinances, and codes applicable in the town,
to exercise their respective responsibilities under this chapter, and to the
entry into said sexually oriented business and inspection of its records at all
reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, for the purpose of inspection to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (L)   The applicant shall be required to provide the town with the names of
any and all employees who are required to be licensed under state law pursuant
to §
111.31 of this chapter. The applicant also agrees to allow a representative of
the town to conduct an inspection of the names, ages, and dates of birth of all
employees who are working at any reasonable time while the establishment is
open. This shall be a continuing requirement even after a permit is granted or
renewed.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 INVESTIGATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the Town Council
and upon payment of the non-refundable application fee, the town or its
designee shall immediately stamp the application as received and shall
immediately thereafter send photocopies of the application to the Marshal’s
office and any other agencies responsible for enforcement of health, fire, and
building codes and laws. Each department or agency shall promptly conduct an
investigation of the applicant, application, and the proposed sexually oriented
business in accordance with its responsibilities under law and as set forth in
this chapter. Said investigation shall be completed within 20 days of receipt
of the application by the town or its designee. At the conclusion of its
investigation, each department or agency shall indicate on the photocopy of the
application its approval or disapproval of the application, date it, sign it,
and, in the event it disapproves, state the reasons therefor. The Town Marshal
shall perform a thorough criminal records check.
   (B)   A department or agency shall disapprove an application if it finds
that the proposed sexually oriented business will be in violation of any
provision of any statute, code, ordinance, regulation, or other law in effect
in the town. After its indication of approval or disapproval, each department
or agency shall immediately return the photocopy of the application to the Town
Council or its designee.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.23 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Council or its designee shall grant or deny an application
for a permit within 30 days from the date of its proper filing. Upon the
expiration of the thirtieth day, unless the applicant requests and is granted a
reasonable extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted to begin
operating the business for which the permit is sought, unless and until the
county or its designee notifies the applicant of a denial of the application
and states the reason(s) for that denial.
   (B)   Grant of applicant for permit.
      (1)   The Town Council or its designee shall grant the application unless
one or more of the criteria set forth in division (C) below is present.
      (2)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also indicate that the
sexually oriented business whether permitted or not may be subject to indecency
laws. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance
to the sexually oriented business so that it can be read at any time.
   (C)   Denial of application for permit.
      (1)   The Town Council or its designee shall deny the application for any
of the following reasons:
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (b)   An applicant is overdue on his or her payment to the county or
town of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or her or imposed
upon him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business;
         (c)   An applicant has failed to provide information required for the
issuance of the permit or has knowingly falsified information on the
application form or require to be submitted with the application form;
         (d)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business has
not been approved as being in compliance with health, fire, and building codes
by the department or agency responsible for compliance with the same;
         (e)   The application or permit fees required by this chapter have not
been paid;
         (f)   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter, including, but
not limited to, the locational requirements for a sexually oriented business
under §§
111.02,
111.04, and
111.05;
         (g)   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance, zoning ordinance, or court order;
         (h)   The applicant has a permit under this chapter which has been
suspended or revoked;
         (i)   An applicant has ever been convicted of a felony or any criminal
offense related to prostitution or pornography. The fact that a conviction is
being appealed or has been reduced to a misdemeanor shall have no effect on the
disqualification of the applicant; and/or
         (j)   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ, an employee who
does not have a valid license as required by this chapter.
      (2)   If the Town Council or its designee denies the application, the
town shall notify the applicant of the denial and state the reason(s) for the
denial. The denied applicant shall have an opportunity for appeal of the Town
Council’s or their designee’s decision as set forth in §
111.29 of this chapter.
      (3)   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of 12 months from the date of denial of a previous application for a
permit at the location, and there has not been an intervening change in the
circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.24 ANNUAL PERMIT FEE.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is $1,000.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.25 INSPECTION.
   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the Town Council,
County Sheriff’s Department, Town Marshal, the Building Inspector, the County
Health Department, and the town’s Fire Department to inspect the premises of a
sexually oriented business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law,
including this chapter, at any time it is occupied or open for business, or at
any other reasonable time.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
111.23 (for renewals, filing of the original survey (if applicable) shall be
sufficient). Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.27 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Council or its designee shall suspend a permit for a period not to
exceed 30 days if the town determines that a permittee, or his or her designee
or employee, has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
   (B)   Been charged with or convicted of being under the influence of
alcoholic beverages while working in the sexually oriented business premises;
   (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of sexually oriented business premises
as authorized by this chapter;
   (D)   Knowingly permitted illegal gambling by any person on the sexually
oriented business premises;
   (E)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance, or regulation, whether
federal, state, or local, said determination being based on investigation by
the division, department, or agency charged with enforcing said rules or laws.
In the event of such statute, code, ordinance, or regulation violation, the
county or its designee shall promptly notify the permittee of the violation and
shall allow the permittee a seven-day period in which to correct the violation.
If the permittee fails to correct the violation before the expiration of the
seven-day period, the county or its designee shall forthwith suspend the permit
and shall notify the permittee of the suspension;
   (F)   Engaged in permit transfer contrary to §
111.30 of this chapter. In the event that the town or its designee suspends a
permit on the ground that a permittee engaged in a permit transfer contrary to
§
111.30, the Town Council or its designee shall forthwith notify the permittee
of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect until the applicable
section of this chapter has been satisfied;
   (G)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours
stipulated by state law which pertain to the sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages (the suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance, or regulation in question has been corrected); or
   (H)   Knowingly employees a person who does not have a valid license as
required in §
111.31 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.28 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Council or its designee shall revoke a permit if a cause of
suspension in §
111.27 occurs and the permit has been suspended for any reason within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The Town Council or its designee shall revoke a permit upon
determining that:
      (1)   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process, and the false or misleading
information was intended to enhance the applicant’s opportunity for obtaining a
permit;
      (2)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use,
or sale of controlled substances in or on the premises;
      (3)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on
the premises;
      (4)   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee’s permit was suspended;
      (5)   A permittee has been convicted of a criminal offense identified in
§
111.23(C)(1)(j);
      (6) On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed a criminal offense, in or on the permitted premises, for
which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or persons were employees
of the sexually oriented business at the time the offenses were committed. The
fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation
of the permit;
      (7)   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business;
      (8)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises; or
      (9)   A permittee has been operating more than one sexually oriented
business under a single roof, without proper permit, within the territorial or
zoning jurisdiction of the county.
   (C)   When Town Council or its designee revokes a permit, the revocation
shall continue for one year and the permittee shall not be issued a sexually
oriented business permit for one year from the date revocation became
effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the Town Council or its designee finds
that the basis for revocation under this section has been corrected, the
applicant shall be granted a permit if at least 90 days have elapsed since the
date revocation became effective.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.29 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION.
   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
prompt review of such administrative action within 30 days by a court having
jurisdiction over the parties.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.30 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another person
unless and until such other person satisfies the following requirements:
      (1)   Obtains an amendment to the permit from the Town Council or its
designee, which provides that he or she is now the permittee, which amendment
may be obtained only if he or she has completed and properly filed an
application with the county executive or its designee, setting forth the
information called for under §
111.23 of this chapter in the application; and
      (2)   Pays the transfer fee of 30% of the annual permit fee set by this
chapter.
   (C)   No permit may be transferred when the Town Council or its designee has
notified the permittee that suspension or revocation proceedings have been or
will be brought against the permittee.
   (D)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another location.
   (E)   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void and the permit shall be
deemed revoked.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.31 PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under
this chapter, and knowingly or with reasonable cause to know, permit, suffer,
or allows:
   (A)   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age to the business premises
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (B)   A person under 18 years of age to remain at the business premises
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (C)   A person under 18 years of age to purchase goods or services at the
business premises without the specific consent of a parent or guardian; or
   (D)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business premises
as an employee violates this section.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 ADVERTISING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to operate or cause to be operated a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter, and advertise the presentation of
any activity prohibited by any applicable state statute or local ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to operate or cause to be operated a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter, and display or otherwise exhibit
the materials and/or performances at such sexually oriented business in any
advertising which is visible outside the premises. This prohibition shall not
extend to advertising the existence or location of such sexually oriented
business.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to operate or cause to be operated a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter and allow any portion of the
interior premises germane to adult entertainment to be visible from outside the
premises.
   (D)   All off-street parking areas and premises entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one footcandle of light on the parking surface and/or walkways.
This required lighting level is established in order to provide sufficient
illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually oriented
business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to reduce the
incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. For a new business, the lighting
shall be shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premises with the
permit application.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section shall relieve the operator(s) of a
sexually oriented business from complying with the requirements of the town,
commonly known as “the sexually oriented business ordinance”, as it may be
amended from time to time, or any subsequently enacted town ordinance or
regulations.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful to work as an employee of a sexually oriented business,
regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under
this chapter, and engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale,
solicit a sale, provide a service, or solicit a service, except during the
lawful hours of operation as provided by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage
Commission.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   The United States Supreme Court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theater
Inc., 501 U.S. 560, 111 S.Ct. 2456, (June 21, 1991) which upheld the rights of
political subdivisions to prohibit live public exposure of a person(s) private
parts, specifically applies to sexually oriented business (regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued to said businesses under this chapter),
including said businesses where no alcoholic beverages are sold, served, or
consumed on or at the premises.
   (B)   Public nudity is prohibited within the town, including at any sexually
oriented business.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35 OPERATION WITHOUT A VALID PERMIT.
   (A)   In addition to the penalty provisions found at other sections of this
chapter, the following additional penalty provisions shall also apply to
sexually oriented businesses.
   (B)   If a sexually oriented business is subject to this chapter, it shall
be unlawful to operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented business,
regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under
this chapter, and said person knows or should know that:
      (1)   The business does not have a sexually oriented business permit
under this chapter for any applicable classification;
      (2)   The business has a permit which is under suspension;
      (3)   The business has a permit which has been revoked; or
      (4)   The business has a permit which has expired.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this chapter that
a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which does not have a sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available
for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter that an
employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee’s bona fide use of a restroom, or during the employees bona fide use
of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees.
   (C)   Schools and libraries are exempt from the regulations of this chapter.
   (D)   This chapter is not applicable to any community theater that shows
films rated G, PG, or R by the motion picture industry and where no more than
5% of its revenues are derived from films not covered by these ratings.
   (E)   It is not a defense to this chapter that a sexually oriented business
is lawfully in operation prior to the date of enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.37 IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION.
   The town and its designee, the Town Marshal’s Department, and all other
departments and agencies, and all other town officers, agents, and employees
charged with enforcement of state and local laws, ordinances, and codes shall
be immune from prosecution, civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith
trespass upon a sexually oriented business while acting within the scope of
authority conferred by this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to whatever penalties are applicable under the state’s
Penal Code, if any person fails or refuses to obey or comply with or violates
any of the provisions of this chapter, such person upon a finding violation of
this chapter, shall be subject to a civil fine of $2,500 for the first offense
and $7,500 for each subsequent offense, in the discretion of the court. Each
violation or noncompliance shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
Further, each day of continued violation or noncompliance shall be considered
as a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall prevent or restrict the town from taking such
other lawful action in any court of competent jurisdiction as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation or noncompliance. Such other lawful actions
shall include, but shall not be limited to, an equitable action for injunctive
relief or an action at law for damages.
   (C)   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the town and the town shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this section to the full
extent allowed by law.
   (D)   A person who violates any provision of §
111.05 is subject to a civil fine of $2,500 for the first offense and $7,500
for each subsequent offense.
   (E)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
or his or her agent or employee, who refuses to permit inspection of the
premises at any time that it is occupied or open for business, or at any other
reasonable time, in violation of §
111.25 is subject to a civil fine of $2,500 for the first offense and $7,500
for each subsequent offense.
   (F)   A person who violates §
111.31 is subject to a civil fine of $2,500 for the first offense and $7,500
for each subsequent offense.
   (G)   A person who violates §
111.32(A) through (D) is subject to a civil fine of $2,500 for the first
offense and $7,500 for each subsequent offense.
   (H)   A person who violates §
111.33 is subject to a civil fine of $2,500 for the first offense and $7,500
for each subsequent offense.
   (I)   Any sexually oriented business which is found in violation of §
111.34 shall have its permit suspended pursuant to the provisions of §
111.27 and is subject to a civil fine of $2,500 for the first offense and
$7,500 for each subsequent offense.
   (J)   A person who violates §
111.35 is subject to a civil fine of $2,500 for the first offense and $7,500
for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 12-30-2009)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Curfew
   
130.01   Curfew times for children younger than 15 years of age
   
130.02   Children 15, 16, and 17 years of age
   
130.03   Exceptions
CURFEW
§ 130.01 CURFEW TIMES FOR CHILDREN YOUNGER THAN 15 YEARS OF AGE.
   Curfew times for children less than 15 years of age are as follows. It is a
curfew violation for a child less than 15 years of age to be in a public place
within the town after 10:00 p.m. or before 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 130.02 CHILDREN 15, 16, AND 17 YEARS OF AGE.
   For children 15, 16, or 17 years of age, it is a curfew violation for said
child to be in a public place within the town:
   (A)   Between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
   (B)   After 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday;
and
   (C)   Before 6:00 a.m. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 130.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply under the circumstances described in I.C. 31-
37-3-3.5.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 5-1-2000)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   SEWER CONSTRUCTION
      
153.   STORMWATER MASTER PLAN
      
154.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
Unsafe Building Law
   
150.01   Adoption of state regulations
   
150.02   Appointment of administrator
   
150.03   Appointment of hearing authority
   
150.04   Unsafe Building Fund
   
150.05   Construction
Demolition of Unsafe Buildings
   
150.20   Permit required
   
150.21   Procedure
   
150.22   Emergency
   
150.23   Fees
 
   
150.99   Penalty
UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   The Town Council hereby adopts I.C. Ch. 36-7-9 which establishes the state’s
Unsafe Building Law, being I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. and explicitly incorporate by
reference the definition of “substantial property interest” found in I.C. 36-7-
9-2.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 12-9-2014)
§ 150.02 APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Building Inspector shall be the executive department authorized to
administer this subchapter.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 12-9-2014)
§ 150.03 APPOINTMENT OF HEARING AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council is hereby designated as the hearing authority in accordance
with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-2. The hearing authority shall perform those
functions specified by the state’s Unsafe Building Law, being I.C. 36-7-9 et
seq.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 12-9-2014)
§ 150.04 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is established in the operating budget of the Town
Council in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14 as follows.
   (A)   The Fund will receive original revenue from a donation ordinance.
Thereafter the Fund will receive revenue from the General Fund and from repaid
or recovered costs of enforcement and demolition.
   (B)   The Fund shall be used for all expenses, including, but not limited
to, attorney fees incurred by the Town Council and/or the Building Inspector.
   (C)   The Fund shall exist in perpetuity unless and until amended or
repealed by subsequent ordinance.
   (D)   The Fund balance at year’s end shall carry forward to the Fund budget
of the next year. The Fund balance shall be deposited in the General Fund on
termination of the Fund.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 12-9-2014)
§ 150.05 CONSTRUCTION.
   Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute as amended from time
to time, or any similar statutory provision that may supersede it relating to
the same or similar subject matter.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 12-9-2014)
DEMOLITION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained before beginning demolition of any building or
structure within the town using forms furnished by the Town Building Inspector
and all fees required by this subchapter shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer.
The Town Building Inspector is designated the responsible department of the
town to administer and enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 1-15-2007)
§ 150.21 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   DEMOLITION is defined as total removal of the above grade structure.
   (B)   All persons desiring to demolish or wreck structures within the town
jurisdiction must first have a certificate of insurance on file in the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer in the amount of: bodily injury: $100,000/300,000; and
property damage: $50,000.
   (C)   The applicant shall both post a sign clearly visible from the street
and shall notify adjacent property owners in writing at least seven days prior
to commencing such demolition indicating the intent to demolish, such sign to
remain at least from the date of posting until the date of the commencement of
demolition. The improvement location permit may be issued and the demolition
may take place only after evidence that the insurance requirements of division
(B) above have been met.
   (D)   All existing sanitary sewer laterals to buildings being wrecked or
demolished shall be located by the demolition contractor and properly sealed
off two feet behind the street right-of-way line. This work shall be done in
accordance with requirements of and shall be inspected by the Street
Commissioner.
   (E)   During construction or demolition of buildings or structures, no waste
materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or in the
immediate vicinity without having obtained a permit from the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (F)   The manners of performance of work including bids and notification are
to be in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-11. All work for the demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions
of the building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, shall be considered standard
and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 1-15-2007)
§ 150.22 EMERGENCY.
   The town now adopts the procedure and provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq.,
the Unsafe Building Law, being I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., and determines it is
applicable to all areas under the Planning and Zoning jurisdiction of the town.
If a written determination by the City Engineer or Building Inspector is made
that there is an emergency condition dangerous to life, health, or property
which required demolition, then the owner or occupant shall be ordered to
proceed and request a demolition permit. If the owner or occupant fails or
refuses to request a demolition permit, then the town may proceed to have the
building or structure demolished under I.C. 36-7-9-11 and all applicable
provisions of the Unsafe Building Law, at the expenses of the owner or
occupant.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 1-15-2007)
§ 150.23 FEES.
   Provided the demolition shall start within 30 days of the issuance of the
permit, the fees shall be $30. If the demolition shall not commence for more
than 30 days, then the fee is $60. If the demolition shall not commence for
more than 90 days, then the fee shall be $90. Any demolition permit
(improvement location permit for the demolition of a building or structure)
shall expire after 180 days and a new application must be submitted with a new
fee, if the work under the permit has not been completed.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 1-15-2007)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §§
150.01 to
150.05 shall be addressed as established in I.C. Ch. 36-7-9, as it may be
amended from time to time, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The issuance of an order requiring remediation action pursuant to
I.C. 36-7-9-5;
      (2)   The issuance of a continuance enforcement order under I.C. 36-7-9-
7 and/or multiple civil penalties up to the amount allowed by I.C. 36-7-9-7
(currently $5,000 per);
      (3)   The issuance of an emergency action remediating immediate danger
under I.C. 36-7-9-9;
      (4)   Liability for costs for performance of work required by order under
I.C. 36-7-9-11 and I.C. 36-7-9-12; and
      (5)   Imposition of a judgment lien for unpaid costs under I.C. 36-7-9-13
and I.C. 36-7-9-13.5.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 12-9-2014)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Authority and jurisdiction
   
151.004   Interpretation and conflict
   
151.005   Conflict of law
   
151.006   Amendments
   
151.007   Resubdivision of land
   
151.008   Vacation
   
151.009   Variances
   
151.010   Establishment of subdivision control
   
151.011   Appeals
   
151.012   Definitions
Procedure for Submission of Plats
   
151.025   Generally
   
151.026   Advisory meeting with Plan Commission
   
151.027   Preliminary plat approval
   
151.028   Approval of construction plans
   
151.029   Final plat approval
Requirements and Minimum Standards for Improvements
   
151.040   General improvements
   
151.041   Plats crossing municipal boundaries
   
151.042   Subdivision name
   
151.043   Suitability of the land for subdivision development
   
151.044   Lot improvements
   
151.045   Monuments
   
151.046   Streets
   
151.047   Blocks
   
151.048   Community assets
   
151.049   Planned unit developments (PUD)
   
151.050   Utility and drainage easements
   
151.051   Sidewalks
   
151.052   Culverts
   
151.053   Drainage and storm sewers
   
151.054   Dedication of drainage easements
   
151.055   Water supply improvements
   
151.056   Sanitary sewer improvements
   
151.057   Fire Department subdivision regulations
Assurance for Completion of Improvements
   
151.070   Completion of improvements
   
151.071   Posting of bonds
   
151.072   Variances
Administration
   
151.085   Inspection
   
151.086   Acceptance of construction
   
151.087   Final plat certification forms
   
151.088   Release of reduction of performance bond
   
151.089   Site environmental assessment form
   
151.090   Preliminary plat check list
   
151.091   Enforcement of violations
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and cited as “the Subdivision Regulations
of the Town of Hanover”.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to protect and promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare, and to provide for:
   (A)   Guidance for future growth and development in accordance with the
comprehensive planning process;
   (B)   Adequate air, light, and privacy, and to prevent overcrowding of the
land and undue congestion;
   (C)   Protection of the character and the social and economic stability of
all parts of the area, and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development
of all parts;
   (D)   Protection and conservation of the value of land, buildings, and other
improvements upon the land, and to minimize the conflicts among the uses of
land and buildings;
   (E)   Guidance of public and private policy and action in order to assure
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
drainage, and other public requirements and facilities;
   (F)   Avoidance of scattered and uncontrolled subdivision of land that would
result in the unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of services that are a part of community infrastructure;
   (G)   Establishment of reasonable standards of design and minimum
requirements for the creation, installation, and improvement of physical
facilities, which are, or will be, maintained for the benefit of the general
public;
   (H)   Establishment of reasonable standards and procedures for subdivisions
and resubdivision, in order to further the orderly layout and use of land, and
to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided land;
   (I)   Prevention of the pollution of air and water; provision of drainage
facilities and the safeguarding of the water table; and the encouragement of
wise use and management of natural resources in order to preserve the
integrity, stability, natural beauty and topography, and the value of land; and
   (J)   Administration of these regulations by defining the powers and duties
of approval authorities; and the manner and form of making, filing, and
processing of any plat.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.003 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter, which was enacted pursuant to the state’s home rule and
planning enabling legislation (I.C. Titles 36-1-3-4 and the 36-7-4-700 series,
as amended), authorizes the town’s Plan Commission to review and approve or
disapprove plats for subdivision within the jurisdiction of the town that show
lots, blocks, or sites with or without new streets or highways. With regard to
this chapter, their authority and jurisdiction shall include the corporate
limits and the unincorporated area within the two-mile planning limits of the
town, as may be amended by subsequent annexation, except as specified in
division (C) below. This authority extends to the development or redevelopment
of undeveloped portions of previously recorded plats.
   (B)   No improvement location permit, building permit, or certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for any parcel or plat of land which was created by
subdivision after the effective date of, and not in conformity with, the
provisions of these subdivision regulations; and no excavation of land or
construction of any public or private improvements shall take place or be
commenced except in conformance with the regulations contained herein and
including the construction standards adopted by the town.
   (C)   With respect to road standards for any subdivision development outside
the town limits, but within the two-mile fringe planning jurisdiction of the
town, the applicant shall be bound and governed by the more restrictive or
stringent of either the town’s subdivision construction standards or those of
the county or the City of Madison, whichever is applicable.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.004 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Conflict with public and private provisions.
      (1)   Public provisions. The regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or
other provision of law. Where any provision of these regulations imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of these
regulations or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of
law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall
control.
      (2)   Private provisions. The regulations are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant, or any other private agreement or restriction, provided
that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or regulations than such easement, covenant, or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
Where the provisions of the easement, covenant, or private agreement or
restriction impose duties and obligations more restrictive, or higher standards
than the requirements of these regulations, or the determinations of the
Commission in approving a subdivision or in enforcing these regulations, and
such private provisions are not inconsistent with these regulations or
determinations thereunder, then such private provisions shall be operative and
supplemental to these regulations and determinations made thereunder.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.005 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any section or provision existing at the
time of adoption of these regulations, or as vacating or annulling any rights
obtained by any person, firm, or corporation, by lawful action of the town
except as shall be expressly provided for in these regulations.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.006 AMENDMENTS.
   For the purpose of protecting and promoting public health, safety, and
general welfare, the Town Council may from time to time amend the provisions
imposed by these regulations. The Plan Commission shall hold public hearings on
all proposed amendments, in the manner prescribed by law.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.007 RESUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   (A)   Procedure for resubdivision. For any change in a map of an approved or
recorded subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on
such map, or area reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it
affects any map or plan legally reached prior to the adoption of any
regulations controlling subdivisions, such parcel shall be approved by the
Commission by the same procedure, rules, and regulations as for a subdivision.
   (B)   Procedure for subdivisions where future resubdivision is indicated.
Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or
more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are indications that
such lots will eventually be re-subdivided into smaller building sites, the
Commission may require that such parcel of land allow for the future opening of
streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for
the future opening and extension of such streets may be made a requirement of
the plat.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.008 VACATION.
   (A)   Any recorded plat or part thereof may be vacated only in accordance
with I.C 36-7-3, as amended.
   (B)   Power is given to the town to vacate, by proper ordinance, any such
existing plat and addition to the town or such part or parts thereof as the
town may deem advantageous and best for its interests, and the power granted
shall be exercised by the town upon the petition of the owner or all of the
owners of lots or lands in such plat or addition.
   (C)   Such ordinance vacating such plat or addition shall specify whether,
and, if any, what public highways, streets, alleys, and public grounds thereof
are to be retained by the town; otherwise such ways, streets, and public
grounds shall upon such vacation revert to the owner or owners of lots or lands
abutting the same in proportion to the respective ownerships of such lots or
grounds. In case of total or partial vacation of such plat or addition, the
ordinance providing therefor shall be, at the cost of the owner or owners,
certified to the office of the County Recorder and be there recorded by the
owner or owners. Whereupon the Recorder shall note such total or partial
vacation of such plat or addition by writing in plain and legible letters upon
such plat or portion thereof so vacated the word “vacated”, and also make on
the same, reference to the volume and page in which said ordinance of vacation
is recorded; and the owner or owners of the lots and lands in a plat so vacated
shall cause the same and the proportionate part of the abutting highway,
streets, alleys, and public grounds so vacated to be replatted and numbered by
the Town Engineer. When such replat so executed is acknowledged by such owner
or owners and is recorded in the office of the County Recorder, such property
so replatted may be conveyed and assessed by the numbers given in such replat.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.009 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Where the Board of Zoning Appeals finds that extraordinary hardships
or practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these
regulations and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater
extent by an alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these
subdivision regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest secured, provided that such variance shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations; and further provided
that the Board of Zoning Appeals shall not approve variances unless it shall
make findings, based upon the evidence presented to it, in each specific case
that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare, or injurious to other property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations is carried out; and
      (4)   Where the variance impacts on design and construction of public
facilities, all appropriate public agencies have been given ample time to
comment in writing to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   In approving variances, the Board of Zoning Appeals may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of these regulations.
   (C)   A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in writing by the
subdivider at the time when the sketch plat is filed for the consideration of
the Board of Zoning Appeals. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the
application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
   (D)   Financial disadvantage to the property owner is not proof of hardship
within the purpose of this chapter.
   (E)   A comprehensive group housing, commercial, or industrial development,
including the large-scale construction of housing, commercial, or industrial
units together with necessary drives and ways of access, may be approved by the
Plan Commission although the design of the project does not include standard
street, lot, and subdivision arrangements, provided that departure from the
standards of these regulations can be made without destroying their intent and
is in accordance with the provisions of the zoning ordinance relating to
planned unit development (PUD).
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.010 ESTABLISHMENT OF SUBDIVISION CONTROL.
   (A)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of
such subdivision has been approved by the Commission, in accordance with the
provisions of these regulations, and filed with the County Recorder.
   (B)   The division of any lot or any parcel of land into a subdivision, as
defined in this chapter, by the use of metes and bounds description for the
purpose of sale, or transfer, or lease resulting in the creation of one or more
new building sites shall not be permitted except as provided for under the
definition of a minor subdivision. All such described divisions shall be
subject to all of the appropriate requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   No public board, agency, commission, official, or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of the
public improvements required by these regulations until the proposed
subdivision has been approved by the Plan Commission in accordance with these
regulations.
   (D)   No building permit required by this chapter shall be issued on any
property subject to this chapter until the provisions of this chapter have been
complied with.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.011 APPEALS.
   Any decision or requirement of the Plan Commission made under the authority
of this chapter is subject to the right of appeal and review by certiorari,
provided written appeal is taken no more than 30 days from such Commission
action. Appeals are made to the Town Council.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.012 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in
the present tense include the future tense; words used in the plural number
include the singular; the word “herein” means “in these regulations”; and the
word “regulations” means “these regulations”.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. See BUILDING, ACCESSORY.
      ADVERTISING SIGN. Any structure, object, or device erected, maintained,
or used for advertising purposes, related to the permitted use of the premises
upon which it is located. This definition does not include the term
“billboard”.
      AGRICULTURE. The art or science of cultivating the ground, and raising
and harvesting crops. Also often includes feeding, breeding, and management of
livestock; tillage; husbandry; farming; and in a broader sense, the production
of plants and animals useful to people, including, to a variable extent, the
preparation of those products for people’s use and their disposal by marketing
or other means of distribution. This includes the use of land for farming,
dairying, pasturage, agriculture, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary ancillary
functions for packing, treating, or storing the produce, provided however,
that:
         (a)   The operation of any such ancillary functions shall be secondary
to that of normal agricultural activities;
         (b)   The above functions shall not include the feeding or sheltering
of animals or poultry in penned enclosures within 100 feet of any residential
district; and
         (c)   The term AGRICULTURE does not include the operation or
maintenance of a commercial stockyard or feedlot where large numbers of
livestock are fed concentrated feed particularly for the purpose of fattening
for market.
      AIRPORT. Any location, either on land or water, or structure that is
designed or used for the landing and taking-off of aircraft, includes all
necessary buildings and facilities, if any.
      ALLEY. See STREET.
      ALTERATION. Any change, addition, or modification in construction, or any
change in the structural members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams, or girders.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple dwelling or where more
than one dwelling unit is established in any building intended, designed, used,
or suitable for use by one or more persons as a place of residence with kitchen
facilities.
      APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
      APPROPRIATE AGENCY or APPROPRIATE OFFICIAL. The agency or official that
will inspect improvements. The APPROPRIATE AGENCY OR OFFICIAL for roads and
drainage is the Town Engineer; for water systems, the water company that will
provide water service to the subdivision; for sewer lines, the AGENCY that will
treat the sewage; and for septic systems, the county’s Health Department or the
state’s Health Department.
      ARTERIAL. See STREET.
      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A residential setting-combining housing,
personalized supportive services, and health care, which is designed to meet
the individual needs of mentally or physically limited persons who need help
with activities of daily living but do not need the skilled medical care
provided in a nursing home.
      AUCTION USE. A building or any specific closed or open area where
merchandise is assembled and sold by a form of sale called an auction.
      AUTOMOBILE SALES ROOM. The use of all or part of a building for the
display and sale of new or used automobiles.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A building designed primarily for the
supplying of motor fuel, oil, lubrication, and accessories to motor vehicles,
but excluding major repair and overhaul.
      AUTOMOTIVE, MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER, FARM IMPLEMENT, AND CONSTRUCTION
MACHINERY SALES. The sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles, mobile
homes, travel trailers, farm implements, and construction machinery.
      BASEMENT. A portion of the building having more than half its clear
height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
      BASEMENT, EXPOSED. A portion of the building having less than half its
clear height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. A property occupied by an owner and/or operator
providing overnight accommodations to guests, with or without meals for hire or
pay, for the traveling or vacationing public. It does not include boarding
house, rooming house, domiciliary hostel, group home, hotel, or motel.
      BILLBOARD. Any structure, object, or device erected, maintained, or used
for advertising purposes not related to the use of the premises upon which it
is located.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways,
or boundary lines of municipalities.
      BOARD. Board of Zoning Appeals.
      BOARDING AND LODGING HOUSE. A building where, for compensation, lodging
or lodging and meals are provided for three or more persons, not including
members of the keeper’s immediate family, by prearrangement for definite
periods.
      BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the Plan Commission. All BONDS shall be approved by the
Commission wherever a bond is required by these regulations.
      BUILDING. Any roofed structure designed and built for the support,
shelter, enclosure, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or movable
property of any kind.
      BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A building subordinate to another structure,
detached from it but located on the same lot, which does not change or alter
the character of the premises and which is not used for human occupancy.
      BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of the principal and
accessory buildings, excluding open steps or terraces, unenclosed porches, or
architectural appurtenances projected not more than two feet.
      BUILDING CODE. The town ordinance or group of ordinances establishing and
controlling the standards for constructing buildings, utilities, mechanical
equipment, and all forms of structures and permanent installations and related
matters within the town; also referred to herein as the TOWN BUILDING CODE. In
lieu of a separate town building code, the current State Building Code will
serve as the town’s BUILDING CODE.
      BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no structural connection with
another building.
      BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line of the face of the building nearest the
front lot line.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the
highest point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs,
and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip, and gambrel
roofs.
      BUILDING LINE. The line that establishes the minimum permitted distance
on a lot between the front roof line of a building and the street right-of-way
line. A building shall not extend beyond the BUILDING LINE unless varied
according to procedures in the zoning ordinance.
      BUILDING PERMIT. A permit stating that the proposed erection,
construction, enlargement, or moving of a building or structure referred to
therein complies with provisions and regulations contained in the town zoning
ordinance and/or the town’s subdivision regulations and/or other pertinent
ordinances of the town.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the permitted use
of the lot on which said building is situated.
      BUILDING SITE. An area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation, or other means for erecting pads or foundations for
buildings.
      BUSINESS, CONVENIENCE. Commercial establishments which cater to and can
be located in close proximity to or within residential districts without
creating excessive congestion, noise, or other objectionable influences.
CONVENIENCE uses include, but need not be limited to, drugstores, beauty
salons, barbershops, carryouts, dry cleaning and laundry facilities, and small
grocery stores, if the aggregate total floor area of such facilities does not
exceed 10,000 square feet. Uses in this classification tend to serve the day-
to-day needs of the neighborhood.
      BUSINESS, GENERAL. Commercial uses which generally require locations on
or near major arterials and/or their intersections, and which tend, in addition
to serving day-to-day needs of the neighborhood, to also supply the more
durable and permanent needs of the whole community. GENERAL BUSINESS uses
include, but need not be limited to, such activities as major supermarkets;
stores that sell hardware, apparel, footwear, appliances, and furniture; and
various department and discount stores. Also included here may be drive-in
banks.
      BUSINESS, HIGHWAY. Commercial uses which generally require locations on
or near major arterials and/or their intersections, and which tend to serve the
motoring public. HIGHWAY BUSINESS uses include, but need not be limited to,
such activities as filling stations, automotive sales and service, restaurants
and motels, and commercial recreation.
      BUSINESS, OFFICE TYPE. Quasi-commercial uses which may often be
transitional between retail business and/or industrial and residential uses.
OFFICE BUSINESS generally accommodates such occupations as administrative,
executive, professional, accounting, clerical, and drafting. Institutional
offices of a charitable, philanthropic, religious, or educational nature are
included here.
      BUSINESS SERVICES. Any activity which renders services primarily to other
commercial or industrial enterprises, or which services and repairs appliances
and machines used in businesses and homes.
      BUSINESS, WHOLESALE. Business establishments that generally sell
commodities and materials in large quantities or by the piece to retailers,
jobbers, or other wholesale establishments. These commodities are basically for
further resale, for use in the fabrication of a product, or for use by a
business service.
      CAMP, PUBLIC. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate
two or more recreational vehicles or mobile homes or two or more camping
parties, including cabins, tents, or other camping outfits.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM. A proposed schedule for all future projects
in order of construction priority together with cost estimates and the
anticipated means of financing each project. All major projects requiring the
expenditure of public funds, over and above the annual local government’s
operating expenses, for the purchase, construction, or replacement of the
physical assets for the community are included.
      CARPORT. A structure with a roof supported by columns and/or one or more
solid walls for the shelter of an automobile(s).
      CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER. A tower constructed for, or an existing facility
that has been adapted for, the location of transmission or related equipment to
be used in the provision of cellular telecommunications services or personal
communications services.
      CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human or
animal dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories,
mausoleums, and mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the
boundaries of such cemetery for which perpetual care and maintenance are
provided.
      CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A community sewer system, including collection
and treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new
subdivision in an outlying or generally rural area.
      CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. A private water company formed by a developer to
serve a new community development in an outlying or generally rural area. It
includes water treatment and distribution facilities.
      CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse, with definite bed and banks
to confine and conduct continuously or periodically flowing water.
      CHARACTERISTICS OF USE. The permitted uses that are characteristic of an
area of land or a building or structure.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A home or facility, designed for the temporary care
of four or more infants and/or children not all of common parentage, which is
not licensed by the state as a child care institution, day nursery, or
children’s home.
      CLASSIFICATION OF STREETS. Functional classification is defined as the
process by which streets and roads are grouped into classes, or systems,
according to the character of service they are intended to provide. Functional
classification can be applied in planning street and road system development,
determining the jurisdictional responsibility for particular systems, and in
fiscal planning. Three main classes are generally accepted under the functional
classification scheme: arterials; collectors; and locals.
      CLINIC. A building used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick,
ailing, infirm, or injured persons, and those who are in need of medical and
surgical attention, but which building does not provide board, room, or regular
hospital care and services.
      CLUB. Buildings and facilities, owned or operated by a corporation,
association, person, or persons for a social, educational, or recreational
purpose, to which membership is required for participation, and not operated
primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as
a business.
      COLLECTOR. See STREET.
      COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. Any activity that is generally related
to the entertainment field, such as a motion picture theater, carnival,
cocktail lounge, nightclub, and similar entertainment activities.
      COMMISSION. The Plan Commission, appointed in accordance with I.C. 36-7-
1.
      COMMON WALL. A wall, starting from the foundation and extending
continuously through all stories to or above the roof, which separates one
building from another and is in joint use by each building.
      COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted
by the Plan Commission and the legislative authority of the town, showing, in
graphic and verbal statement forms, the general location and extent of present
and proposed physical, social, and economic plans and policies for the
development of the town, including housing, industrial and commercial uses,
parks, schools, transportation, and other community facilities and including
any part of such plan and/or policies separately adopted and any amendments to
such plan and/or policies or parts thereof.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use allowed within a district other than a permitted
use, requiring a conditional use permit issued by the Zoning Inspector upon
approval by the Plan Commission. CONDITIONAL USES permitted in each district
are listed in the Official Schedule of District Regulations or special
exceptions.
      CONDOMINIUM. The absolute ownership of a specified space in a multiple
dwelling or other multiple-occupancy building with tenancy-in-common ownership
of portions used jointly with other owners.
      CONFINEMENT FEEDING. The confined feeding of animals for food, fur, or
pleasure purposes in lots, pens, ponds, sheds, barn buildings, or any other
structure where food is supplied to the animals only by means other than
grazing. The term as defined by the state’s Department of Environmental
Management means the feeding of 300 or more cattle, 600 or more swine or sheep,
or 30,000 or more fowl that are housed (or penned) in a confined area.
      CONSTRUCTION PLANS. The maps, drawings, and textual descriptions
accompanying a subdivision plat and showing the specific location and design of
improvements to be installed in the subdivision in accordance with the
requirements of the Commission as a condition of the approval of the plat.
      CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS. The town’s construction standards for development
and public improvements as adopted and amended.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Hanover, Indiana.
      COVENANT. A written promise or pledge.
      CUL-DE-SAC. See STREET.
      CULVERT. A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, or driveway.
      DAY CARE FACILITY. See CHILD CARE FACILITY.
      DEAD-END STREET. See STREET.
      DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat.
      DENSITY. A unit of measurement of the number of dwelling units per acre
of land.
         (a)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of the
total land to be developed, including public right-of-way.
         (b)   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when
the acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses,
excluding public right-of-way.
      DETACHED BUILDING. A building having no structural connection with
another building.
      DEVELOPER. Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself
or herself. The DEVELOPER may be the owner of land proposed to be subdivided or
his or her representative, the subdivider.
      DISTRICT. A part of the town wherein restrictions of the zoning ordinance
are uniform.
      DORMITORY. See ROOMING HOUSE.
      DRIVE-IN BUSINESS. An establishment with facilities for attracting and
servicing prospective customers traveling in motor vehicles which are driven
onto the site where such business is carried on, where normally the customer
remains in the vehicle for service, but shall not include car washing
establishments, drive-in theatres, or service stations.
      DRIVES, PRIVATE (DRIVEWAY) . Vehicular streets and driveways, which have
been graded and graveled or surfaced with concrete, asphalt, crushed stone or
other hard surfaces and dustless material, which are wholly within private
property except where they intersect with other streets within public rights-
of-way.
      DUMP. A lot of land or part thereof used for the disposal by abandonment,
dumping, burial, and for whatever purpose, of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse,
junk, discarded machinery, vehicles or part thereof, or waste material of any
kind.
      DUPLEX. A two-family dwelling or house.
      DWELLING. A fixed structure or building containing one or more dwelling
units.
      DWELLING, INDUSTRIALIZED UNIT. A manufactured assembly of building
materials and products that is self-sufficient or substantially self-sufficient
to constitute a dwelling unit which is intended to be moved to and installed on
a building site, including modular or section units but no mobile homes.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling consisting of three or more dwelling
units with varying arrangements of entrances and common walls, including
condominiums, apartments, town homes, and patio homes.
      DWELLING, SEASONAL. A single detached dwelling used essentially for
recreation, rest, or relaxation from time to time, throughout any season of the
year, by any person or persons, but not intended to be used continually in
excess of five months or as a permanent residence.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling consisting of a single dwelling unit,
only, separated from other dwelling units by open space.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling consisting of two dwelling units which
may be attached either side by side or one above the other, and each unit
having a separate or combined entrances or entrance. Commonly referred to as
DUPLEX.
      DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms designed and equipped exclusively
for use as living quarters for only one family and its household employees,
including provisions for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating. The term shall
include mobile homes, but shall not include travel trailers or recreational
vehicles.
      EASEMENT. An authorization grant by a property owner for the use by
another of any designated part of his or her property for a clearly specified
purpose(s).
      ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the Commission in lieu of an amount
required and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall hold such escrow funds.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance of gas, electrical, or communication facilities; steam, fuel, or
water transmission or distribution systems; or collection, supply, or disposal
systems. Such systems may include towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm and police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants, and similar accessories, but shall not include buildings which are
necessary for the furnishing of such services.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying premises and living as one
housekeeping unit using one kitchen, and distinguished from a group occupying a
boarding house, lodging house, fraternity or sorority house, a club, or a
hotel.
      FARM. An area used for agricultural operations including crop production,
truck gardening, forestry, the operation of a tree or plant nursery, or the
production of livestock and/or poultry.
      FARM VACATION ENTERPRISES (PROFIT OR NON-PROFIT). Farms adapted for use
as vacation farms; picnicking and sports areas; fishing waters; camping,
scenery, and nature recreation areas; hunting areas; hunting preserves; and
watershed projects.
      FENCE. A structure, including entrance and exit gates, designed and
constructed for enclosure or screening.
      FILLING STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
      FINAL PLAT APPROVAL. The stage of application for formal Plan Commission
approval of a final plat of a subdivision, the construction of which has been
completed or substantially completed, with completion guaranteed by a
performance bond, which, if approved and signed by the designated officials,
may be submitted to the County Recorder for filing.
      FLEXIBLE ZONING. Zoning which permits uses of land and density of
buildings and structures different from those that are allowed within the
zoning district in which the land is situated. FLEXIBLE ZONING applications
shall pertain to Planned Unit Developments (PUDs).
      FLOOD or FLOOD WATER. The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and
inundated by overflow from a river, stream, lake, or other body of water.
      FLOOD CONTROL. The prevention of floods; the control, regulation,
diversion, or confinement of flood water or flood flow; and the protection
therefrom, according to sound and accepted engineering practice, to minimize
the extent of floods, and the death, damage, and destruction caused thereby,
and all things incidental thereto or connected therewith.
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A floodplain, or portion thereof, which has not been
adequately protected from flood water by means of dikes, levees, reservoirs, or
other works approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources. See Ch.
154 of this code of ordinances.
      FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. The elevation of the lowest point around the
perimeter of a building at which flood waters may enter the interior of the
building.
      FLOOD, REGULATORY (OR REGIONAL). A flood having a peak discharge which
can be expected to be equaled or exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year
period, as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources. The 100-year frequency
flood is equivalent to a flood having a probability of occurrence of 1% in any
given year (a flood magnitude that has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year).
      FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of
a river or stream that has been or may be covered by flood water. The
FLOODPLAIN includes the channel, floodway, and floodway fringe.
      FLOODWAY, REGULATORY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to
efficiently carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any
river or stream shown on the floodway boundary maps of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the flood hazard areas lying outside
the floodway.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum, in square feet, of the floor areas of all
roofed portions of a building, as measured from the interior faces of the
exterior walls. It includes the total of all space on all floors of a building.
It does not include porches, garages, or space in a basement or cellar when
said basement or cellar space is used for storage or other such incidental
uses.
      FLOOR AREA, NET. The gross floor area, excluding stairs, washrooms,
elevator shafts, maintenance shafts and rooms, storage spaces, display windows,
fitting rooms, and the like, in a nonresidential building. The NET AREA is used
in calculating parking requirements.
      FLOOR AREA RATIO. The floor area of the building divided by the area of
the lot on which such building is located.
      FLOOR AREA, USABLE. Same as FLOOR AREA, GROSS.
      FOOD PROCESSING. The preparation, storage, or processing of food
products. Examples of these activities include bakeries, dairies, canneries,
and the like.
      FOUNDATION. The supporting member of a wall or structure.
      FRONTAGE. The length along the street right-of-way line of a single lot,
tract, or development area between the side lot lines of the property. It is
that side of a lot abutting a street and ordinarily regarded as the front of
the lot.
      FRONTAGE STREET. See STREET.
      FRONT LINE OF BUILDING. The line of the face of the building nearest the
front lot line.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building, or an accessory portion of the
principal building, used for storing or parking of automobiles, recreational
vehicles, and/or boats of the occupants of the premises and wherein not more
than one space is rented for parking to a person not resident of the premises.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. A principal or accessory building other than a private
garage, used for parking or temporary storage of passenger automobiles, and in
which no service shall be provided for remuneration.
      GRADE. The slope of road, street, or other public way, specified in terms
of percentage.
      HEALTH DEPARTMENT and HEALTH OFFICER. The agency or person designated by
the town to administer the health regulations within the town’s jurisdiction.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING. See BUILDING, HEIGHT OF.
      HIGHWAY. See STREET.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation in a dwelling unit, provided that:
         (a)   No more than one person other than members of the family
residing on the premises shall be engaged in such occupation;
         (b)   The use of the dwelling unit for the HOME OCCUPATION shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of the gross floor area of the dwelling unit
shall be used in the conduct of the occupation;
         (c)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the
building or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such HOME
OCCUPATION other than one sign, not exceeding four square feet in area, non-
illuminated, and mounted flat against the wall of the principal building;
         (d)   No traffic shall be generated by such HOME OCCUPATION in greater
volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such HOME OCCUPATION shall meet
the off-street parking requirements as specified in the zoning ordinance and
shall not be located in a required front yard; and
         (e)   No equipment or process shall be used in such HOME OCCUPATION
that creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations
in line voltage off the premises.
      HOTEL OR MOTEL and APARTMENT HOTEL. A building in which lodging or
boarding and lodging are provided and offered to the public for compensation.
As such, it is open to the public in contradistinction to a rooming house,
boarding house, lodging house, or dormitory which is herein separately defined.
      IMPROVEMENT. Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and building site development.
      IMPROVEMENT LOCATION/BUILDING PERMIT. See BUILDING PERMIT.
      IMPROVEMENT, LOT. Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other
object, or improvement of the land on which it is situated constituting a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment. Certain
LOT IMPROVEMENTS shall be properly bonded as provided in these regulations.
      IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any drainage ditch, roadway, sidewalk, tree, lawn,
off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other facility for which the local
or state government may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance
and operation, or which may effect an improvement for which local or state
government responsibility is established. All such IMPROVEMENTS shall be
properly bonded.
      IMPROVEMENT, TEMPORARY. Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and prior to release of the performance
bond.
      INDIANA CODE. The Burns Indiana Statutes Code Edition, which codifies all
Indiana statutes for reference purposes. The latest edition with any amending
supplements must be referred to for the laws currently in force and applicable.
(Usually abbreviated as I.C. herein.)
      INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system, or any other approved sewage treatment device.
      INDUSTRIAL, HEAVY. Industrial processing, assembling, storing, testing,
and similar manufacturing uses which are generally major operations and
extensive in character; require large sites, open storage and service areas,
extensive services and facilities, and ready access to regional transportation;
and normally generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust,
glare, air pollution, and water pollution, but not beyond the district
boundary.
      INDUSTRIAL, LIGHT. Industrial or other manufacturing uses which are
usually controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet, and free of
objectionable or hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor, or dust;
operating and storing within enclosed structures; and generating little
industrial traffic or nuisances.
      INFRASTRUCTURE. The fixed public works and facilities necessary in a
community, such as sewers, water systems, storm and drainage systems, and
streets.
      INSTITUTION. Building(s) and/or land designed to aid individuals in need
of mental, therapeutic, or rehabilitative counseling, or other correctional
services.
      INTERESTED PARTIES. Those parties who are the owners of properties
adjoining or adjacent to a proposed subdivision as shown on the sketch plan, or
of a property where a variance or rezoning is requested.
      JUNK. Old and dilapidated modes of conveyance such as automobiles,
trucks, tractors, watercraft, and other such vehicles and parts thereof; wagons
and other kinds of vehicles and parts thereof; household appliances, scrap
building material, scrap contractors’ equipment, tanks, casks, cans, barrels,
boxes, drums, piping, bottles, glass, old iron machinery, rags, paper,
excelsior, hair, mattresses, beds, and bedding or any other kind of scrap or
waste material which is stored, kept, handled, or displayed.
      JUNK YARD. A lot, land, or structure, or part thereof, at which property
is or may be salvaged for reuse, resale, reduction, or similar disposition and
is owned, possessed, collected, accumulated, dismantled or assorted, including,
but not limited to, used or salvaged base metal or metals, their compounds or
combinations; used or salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, lumber,
millwork, brick, and similar property except animal matter; and used motor
vehicles, machinery, or equipment which are used, owned, or possessed for the
purposes of wrecking or salvaging the parts.
      JURISDICTION. All land within the town’s boundaries and any land outside
its boundaries over which it is authorized to exercise powers under these
regulations.
      KENNEL. Any premises where four or more domesticated animals over four
months of age are housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained, or sold and which
may offer provisions for minor medical treatment.
      LAND. The earth, water, and air above, below, or on the surface, and
includes any improvements or structures customarily regarded as LAND.
      LAND USE. The development existing on the land or the uses identified in
§ 7 of the town’s zoning ordinance.
      LIVESTOCK. Any animal which has been domesticated primarily for
agricultural purposes, but not including animals usually considered house pets
such as dogs, cats, canaries, or any other similar animal or fowl.
      LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for
bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used,
and accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are
filled. Required OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE is not to be included as off-street
parking space in computation of required off-street parking space. All OFF-
STREET LOADING SPACES shall be located totally outside of any street or alley
right-of-way.
      LOCAL STREET. See STREET.
      LOOP. See STREET.
      LOT or PARCEL. A tract of land assigned a separate tax identification
number by the county taxing authorities; however, parcels/lots in different
sections, townships, or ranges included in one legal description are to be
considered one PARCEL/LOT even though they have separate tax identification
numbers.
      LOT COVERAGE. The ratio of enclosed ground floor area of all buildings on
a lot to the horizontally projected area of the lot, expressed as a percentage.
      LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated in the zoning
ordinance.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. Lot line(s) bounding a lot as follows:
         (a)   INTERIOR LOT. The line separating the lot from the street right-
of-way.
         (b)   CORNER OR THROUGH LOT. The line separating the lot from either
street right-of-way.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot that is most distant from and is,
or is most nearly parallel to, the front lot line. In the case of a triangular
or irregular-shaped lot, an imaginary line between the side lot lines parallel
to the front lot line, ten feet long, lying farthest from the front lot line.
On a corner lot the REAR LOT LINE shall be opposite the front lot line of least
dimension.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot that is not a front lot line or
rear lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which
has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder or a parcel of land, not
exceeding one acre in area, the deed of which was recorded in the office of the
County Recorder, prior to the effective date of these regulations.
      LOT, MEASUREMENT OF. A lot shall be measured as follows:
         (a)   DEPTH. The distance between the mid-points of straight lines
connecting the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the rearmost
points of the side lot lines in the rear.
         (b)   WIDTH. The distance between straight lines connecting front and
rear lot lines at each side of the lot, measured at the building setback line.
      LOT TYPES. Terminology used in the zoning ordinance with reference to
different types of lots is as follows:
         (a)    CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets (“A” in diagram). A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be
considered a CORNER LOT if tangent projections of the front lot lines drawn
perpendicular at the side lot lines meet at an interior angle of less
than 135 degrees in front of the lot (“A1” in diagram).
         (b)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot with only one frontage on a street (“B” in
diagram).
         (c)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which frontage is at right
angles to the general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may be a
corner lot (“A-D” in diagram) or an interior lot (“B-D” in diagram).
         (d)   THROUGH LOT. A lot, other than a corner lot, with frontage on
more than one street other than an alley (“C” in diagram). THROUGH LOTS
abutting two streets may be referred to as double frontage lots.
      MANUFACTURING, EXTRACTIVE. Any mining, quarrying, excavating, processing,
storing, separating, cleaning, or marketing of any mineral natural resource.
      MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle originally constructed or designed for mobility,
and in such a manner to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling or sleeping
place, either self-propelled, or non-self-propelled, shall be considered mobile
and not a permanent structure or building although the means or devices for
mobility have been removed therefrom and their function replaced by a permanent
type of foundation or anchorage to the land, and further shall be required to
conform to the regulations and restrictions for the district in which so
located.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land upon which two or more mobile homes are
harbored for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences and includes
all real and personal property used in the operation of the mobile home park.
An area of land that is subdivided and contains individual lots that are leased
or otherwise contracted for is a MOBILE HOME PARK if two or more mobile homes
are harbored there for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences.
      MODEL HOME. A dwelling unit, used initially for display purposes, which
typifies the type of units that will be constructed in a subdivision. Such
dwelling units may be erected at the discretion of the Plan Commission.
      MONUMENT. Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe,
or iron or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot, or street
lines.
      MOTEL. See HOTEL.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A building, structure, or use of land existing at the
time of enactment of the zoning ordinance, and which does not conform to the
regulations of the district in which it is situated.
      NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision whose intended use is other
than residential, such as commercial or industrial.
      NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS. Land, buildings, structures, or combination
thereof for the storage, cultivation, or transplanting of live trees, shrubs,
or plants offered for retail sale on the premises, including products used for
gardening and landscaping.
      NURSING HOME. A home or facility providing skilled medical care to
residents who are often, but are not limited to being, pensioners or elderly
people.
      OFF-SITE. Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
      OPEN SPACE. A public or private outdoor area expressly set aside for the
use and benefit of many unrelated people. The area may include natural
environment features, water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts, and other
recreational facilities that the Plan Commission determines to be of the same
general character. Streets, parking areas, structures for habitation, and the
like shall not be included in OPEN SPACE area calculations.
      ORDINANCE. Any legislative action, however denominated, of a local
government which has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any
ordinance.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided under the subdivision
regulations.
      PARCEL. See LOT.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. For the purposes of the zoning ordinance, an
off-street parking space shall consist of an area adequate for parking an
automobile with room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly
related access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room, but shall be
located totally off public right-of-way.
      PARKING STALL. The area required for parking one automobile, with its
attendant maneuvering room. The area required for a parked car is to be ten
feet wide and 22 feet long.
      PARTIAL STREET. See STREET.
      PARTY WALL. See COMMON WALL.
      PERFORMANCE BOND or SURETY BOND. An agreement by a subdivider or
developer providing a warranty by an underwriting organization such as an
insurance company to the town for the amount of the estimated construction cost
guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements according to plans and
specifications within the time prescribed by the agreement.
      PERIMETER STREET. See STREET.
      PERMITTED USE. A use marked as permitted for a district in the schedule
of uses in § 7 of the town’s zoning ordinance.
      PERSON. Includes a corporation, a partnership, and an incorporated
association of persons such as a club.
      PERSONAL SERVICES. Any enterprise conducted for gain, which primarily
offers services to the general public such as shoe repair, watch repair,
barbershops, beauty parlors, and similar activities.
      PLAN COMMISSION. The town’s planning body as established in accordance
with state law, often referred to herein simply as the Commission.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). An area of land in which a variety of
residential, commercial, and industrial uses are planned and developed as a
whole according to comprehensive and detailed plans with more flexible
standards, such as lot sizes and setbacks, than those restrictions that would
normally apply under the zoning ordinance regulations.
      PLAT. The drawing, map, or plan of a subdivision or other tract of land
or a replat of such including certification, descriptions, and approval.
      PLAT, FINAL. The final and formal presentation of the map, plan, or
record of a subdivision and any accompanying material, as described in the
subdivision regulations.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in the
subdivision regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the
subdivision to be submitted to the Commission for approval.
      PLAT, SKETCH. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary
plat (or final plat in the case of minor subdivisions) to enable the subdivider
to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the Commission as
to the form of the plat and the objectives of the subdivision regulations.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL. An approval (or approval with conditions
imposed) granted to a subdivision by the Commission after having determined in
a public meeting that the subdivision complies with the standards prescribed in
the subdivision regulations (per I.C. 36-7-700 series: Subdivision Control).
      PREMISES. One or more lots that are in the same ownership and are
contiguous or separated only by a road or water body, including all buildings,
structures, and improvements.
      PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. See STREET.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The building in which the principal use of the lot is
conducted.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The primary use to which the premises is devoted, and the
main purpose for which the premises exists.
      PRIVATE SCHOOL. Private preprimary, primary, grade, high, or preparatory
school or academy.
      PRIVATE STREET. See STREET.
      PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES. The use of offices and related spaces for such
professional services as are provided by medical practitioners, lawyers,
architects, engineers, and similar professions.
      PROHIBITED USE. A use marked as prohibited for a certain district in the
schedule of uses in § 7 of the town’s zoning ordinance.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. See RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY. The erection, construction, alteration,
operation, or maintenance of buildings, power plants or substations, water
treatment plants or pumping stations, sewage disposal or pumping plants, and
other similar public service structures by a public utility; by a railroad,
whether publicly or privately owned; or by a municipal or other governmental
agency, including the furnishing of electrical, gas, rail transport,
communications, water, and sewerage services.
      PUBLIC STREET. See STREET.
      PUBLIC USES. Public parks, schools, and administrative and cultural
buildings and structures, not including public land or buildings devoted solely
to the storage and maintenance of equipment and materials and public service
facilities.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, or corporation duly authorized to
furnish cable television, electricity, gas, steam, telephone, telegraph, water,
or sewerage systems to the public under public regulation.
      QUASI-PUBLIC USES. Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals, and other facilities of an educational, religious, charitable,
philanthropic, or non-profit nature.
      RECREATION CAMPGROUND. An area of land on which two or more recreational
vehicles, including campers, tents, or other similar temporary recreational
structures, are regularly accommodated with or without charge, including any
building, structure, or fixture of equipment that is used or intended to be
used in connection with providing such accommodations.
      RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT, MAJOR. Equipment which must be hauled on a
trailer with two or more wheels or which has two or more wheels attached, or
which is self-propelled with wheels, including boats, trailers, and
recreational vehicles.
      RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Public or private facilities that may be
classified as either “extensive” or “intensive” depending upon the scope of
services offered and the extent of use. Extensive facilities generally require
and utilize considerable areas of land and include, but need not be limited to,
hunting, fishing, riding clubs, and parks. Intensive facilities generally
require less land (used more intensively) and include, but need not be limited
to, miniature golf courses, amusement parks, stadiums, gymnasiums, and bowling
alleys.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle primarily designed as a temporary
living quarters for recreation, camping, or travel, either with its own motor
power or mounted on or towed by another powered vehicle.
      REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor properly licensed and
registered or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the State of
Indiana.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer properly licensed and
registered in the state or permitted to practice in the state through
reciprocity.
      REGULATORY (OR REGIONAL) FLOOD. See FLOOD, REGULATORY.
      REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The maximum elevation, as established by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources, reached by the regulatory flood at the
locations in question relevant to approval of a given subdivision under
consideration.
      REPLACEMENT COST. The sum of money that would be required to re-erect a
structure identical to the one in question.
      RESEARCH ACTIVITIES. Research, development, and testing related to such
fields as chemical, pharmaceutical, medical, electrical, transportation, and
engineering. All research, testing, and development shall be carried on within
entirely enclosed buildings, and no noise, smoke, glare, vibration, or odor
shall be detected outside of said buildings.
      RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent
property, which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street
extension or widening.
      RESUBDIVISION (REPLAT). A change in a map of an approved or recorded
subdivision plat if such change affects any street layout on such map or area
reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or
plan legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
transportation facilities, public utilities, or other special public uses.
RIGHT-OF-WAY intended for any use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to the public use by the maker of the plat on which such
right-of-way is established.
      ROADSIDE STAND. A temporary structure designed or used for the display or
sale of agricultural and related products or novelties and other items of
interest to the motoring public.
      ROOMING HOUSE (DORMITORY). A dwelling or part thereof, other than a
hotel, motel, or restaurant, where meals and/or lodging are provided for
compensation, for three or more unrelated persons where no cooking or dining
facilities are provided in the individual rooms.
      SALE or LEASE. Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any
possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise,
intestate succession, or transfer, of an interest in a subdivision or part
thereof, whether by deed, metes and bounds, contract, or other written
instrument.
      SANITARY LANDFILL. An operation permitted by the state’s Department of
Environmental Management in which garbage and/or refuse is deposited by a plan
on a specified portion of land, is compacted by force applied by mechanical
equipment, and immediately covered by suitable covering material.
      SCREENING. A structure erected or vegetation planted for concealing an
area from view.
      SEAT. For purposes of determining the number of off-street parking spaces
for certain uses, the number of seats is the number of seating units installed
or indicated, or each 24 lineal inches of benches, pews, or space for loose
chairs.
      SEPTIC SYSTEM. See SEWERS, ON-SITE.
      SETBACK. The distance between a setback line and its associated lot line.
      SETBACK LINE. A line established by the zoning ordinance, generally
parallel with and measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in
which no building or structure may be located above ground, except as may be
provided in said ordinance.
      SEWERAGE SYSTEM, CENTRAL OR GROUP. An approved sewage disposal system
which provides a collection network and disposal system and central sewage
treatment facility for a single development, community, or region.
      SEWERS, ON-SITE. A septic tank or similar installation on an individual
lot which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process or equally satisfactory
process for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper and safe
disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and sanitation
officials having jurisdiction.
      SHALL. Is always mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of the road right-of-way outside the roadway that
is improved for the use of pedestrian traffic.
      SIGN. An identification, description, illustration, or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure, or
land and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, service,
person, institution, or business.
      SIGN LIGHTING DEVICE. Any light, string of lights, or group of lights
located or arranged so as to cast illumination on a sign.
      SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign illuminated by electricity, gas, or other
artificial light including reflecting or phosphorescent light.
      SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. Any sign unrelated to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity or service sold or offered upon the premises where
such sign is located. Also called an ADVERTISING SIGN.
      SIGN, ON-PREMISES. Any sign related to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity or service sold or offered upon the premises where
such sign is located. Can also be called a business sign.
      SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign which projects from the exterior of a
building.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use of a structure allowed in a district for which
the Board of Zoning Appeals grants a permit because of its unusual nature.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STORAGE FACILITIES. Land, buildings, or structures devoted primarily to
storage of equipment and materials.
      STORY. The part of a building between the surface of a floor and the
ceiling immediately above; or if there is a floor above, the portion of a
building between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next
above. An exposed basement shall be counted as a STORY, and a basement or
cellar shall not be counted as a STORY.
      STREET. A general term denoting a public way for purposes of vehicular
travel, including the entire area within the right-of-way. The term STREET also
includes the terms “highway”, “parkway”, “road”, “thoroughfare”, “avenue”,
“boulevard”, “lane”, “court”, “place”, and other such terms. The recommended
usage is: “highway” or “street” in urban areas; and “highway” or “road” in
rural areas.
         (a)   ALLEY. A public or private vehicular right-of-way primarily
designed to serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties
whose principal frontage is on some other street.
         (b)   ARTERIAL. A system of streets and roads that form an integrated
network of continuous routes primarily for through traffic. The ARTERIAL system
is stratified into “principal” (or major) and “minor” categories.
            1.   PRINCIPAL. Serves corridor traffic movements having trip
length and travel density characteristics indicative of substantial statewide
or interstate travel, or connects major population centers in rural areas; or
serves major centers of activity and highest traffic volume corridors with the
longest trip desires in urban areas.
            2.   MINOR. Links other cities, large towns, and traffic
generators, and provides a substantial amount of interstate and intercounty
service in rural areas; or interconnects and augments with the principal
arterials to provide service to trips of moderate length for intracommunity
continuity in urban areas.
         (c)   COLLECTOR. A street or road that generally serves travel of
primarily intra-area and intracounty importance with approximately equal
emphasis to traffic circulation and land access service. The COLLECTOR street
is generally further stratified into “major” and “minor” categories. The
COLLECTOR street collects and distributes traffic between the arterial and
local systems and should be designed so that no residential properties face
onto it and no driveway access to it is permitted unless the property is to be
in multi-family use for four or more dwelling units.
         (d)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate circular turnaround for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movement including public safety vehicles.
         (e)   DEAD-END. A street or a portion of a street with only one
vehicular traffic outlet and no turnaround at the terminal end.
         (f)   FRONTAGE. A local street or road auxiliary to and located on the
side of an arterial for service to abutting property and adjacent areas, and
for control of access. Sometimes also called a MARGINAL ACCESS STREET.
         (g)   HIGHWAY. A term applied to streets and roads that are under the
jurisdiction of the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT).
         (h)   LOCAL. A system of streets and roads that primarily provides
land access service and access from individual properties and provides right-
of-way beneath for sewer, water, and storm drainage pipes.
         (i)   LOOP. A local street with both terminal points on the same
street of origin.
         (j)   PARTIAL. A dedicated right-of-way providing only a portion of
the required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of
land.
         (k)   PERIMETER. Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
         (l)   PRIVATE. A local platted street that is not accepted for public
use or maintenance, and that provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
         (m)   PUBLIC. A street under the control of and kept by the public,
established by regular governmental proceedings for the purpose, or dedicated
by the owner of the land and accepted by the proper authorities, and for the
maintenance of which they are responsible.
      STREET LINE. The limit of the street or road allowance and the dividing
line between a lot and street or road.
      STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The distance between property lines measured
at right angles to the centerline of the street.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or any
substantial change in the exterior walls or the roof.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, walls, fences, and signs.
      SUBDIVIDER. The individual firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust, or other legal entity that executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of the subdivision regulations. The SUBDIVIDER need not be the owner
of the property; however, he or she shall be an agent of the owner or have
sufficient proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
      SUBDIVISION. Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed
to be divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or interests
for the purpose of offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment
plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions, including
resubdivision. SUBDIVISION includes the division or development of residential-
and nonresidential-zoned land, whether by deed, metes and bounds description,
or other recorded instrument However, SUBDIVISION does not include any of the
following:
         (a)   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which
does not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth, or building setback lines of
each building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change
the original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat;
         (b)   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate or a
decedent or a court decree for the distribution or sale of property;
         (c)   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in state law;
         (d)   Widening of existing streets to conform to the Comprehensive
Plan;
         (e)   The acquisition of street rights-of-way by a public agency in
conformance with the Comprehensive Plan;
         (f)   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries, which does not result in the change of the present land usage; and
         (g)   A division of land creating only two parts, a “new parcel” and a
“remainder parcel”, which division has all the following properties:
            1.   Both the new parcel and the remainder parcel must have
frontage on a public road and must contain sufficient square feet, minimum lot
width, and minimum lot depth for construction of a single-family residence
according to the regulations of the zoning district in which it lies;
            2.   No street is created or extended;
            3.   Three hundred sixty-five days have elapsed since any previous
division of land into parts including the parcel now being divided; however,
this requirement shall not apply to a remainder parcel if it is conveyed to an
adjoining owner and the tax identification numbers are merged;
            4.   A plat creating the new parcel must be prepared and recorded
in accordance with standards and procedures established by the County Recorder;
and
            5.   A Plan Commission representative must certify on the plat that
the division of land conforms to the requirements of the town’s zoning
ordinance and this exemption from the definition of a subdivision.
      SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS or SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE. An ordinance
for ensuring the orderly development of land by requiring coordination of new
public facilities with existing facilities; and providing standards for lot
layout, street design, utilities, and easements to assure compatibility with
long-range Comprehensive Plan.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. All subdivisions not classified as minor
subdivisions, including but not limited to subdivisions of four or more lots,
or any size subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the local
governmental facilities, or the creation of any public improvements.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR. Any subdivision containing not more than three lots
fronting on an existing street, not involving any new street or road, or the
extension of municipal facilities, or the creation of any public improvements,
and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property,
and not in conflict with any provision or portion of the Comprehensive Plan,
Thoroughfare Plan, zoning ordinance, or the subdivision regulations.
      SUPPLY YARD. A commercial establishment storing and offering for sale
building supplies, steel, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain, and similar
goods.
      SWIMMING POOL. A pool, pond, lake, or open tank containing at least 18
inches of water at any point and maintained by the owner or manager.
      SWIMMING POOL, COMMUNITY. A swimming pool for the benefit of the general
public, operated with a charge for admission.
      SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE. A swimming pool used exclusively without paying
an additional charge for admission by the residents and guests of a single
household, a multi-family development, a community, the members and guests of a
club, or the patrons of a motel or hotel.
      TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT. Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and intended to be replaced by a
permanent improvement prior to release of the performance bond or turnaround
improvements at the ends of stub streets intended to be replaced when the
adjoining area is developed and the through street connection made.
      TERRACE. A natural or artificial embankment between a building and its
lot lines.
      TERRACE, HEIGHT OF. The difference in elevation between the curb level
and the top of the terrace at the center of the building wall.
      TERRAIN CLASSIFICATION. For purposes of the subdivision regulations and
to guide the application of geometric design criteria, terrain has been
classified as follows.
         (a)   HILLY. The condition where longitudinal and transverse changes
in the elevation of the ground with respect to a street are abrupt and where
the roadbed is obtained by fragment benching or side hill excavation.
         (b)   LEVEL. The condition where street sight distances, as governed
by both horizontal and vertical restrictions, are generally long or could be
made to be so without construction difficulty or major expense.
         (c)   ROLLING. The condition where the natural slopes consistently
rise above and fall below the street grade line and where occasional steep
slopes offer some restriction to normal street horizontal and vertical
alignment.
      THEATER. A building or part of a building that is devoted to showing
motion pictures, or for dramatic, musical, or live performances.
      THEATER, DRIVE-IN. An open lot with its appurtenant facilities devoted to
the showing of motion pictures or theatrical productions on a paid admission
basis to patrons seated in automobiles.
      THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The portion of the Comprehensive Plan adopted by the
Town Council indicating the general location recommended for arterial,
collector, and local streets and roads within the appropriate jurisdiction.
      TOURIST HOME. A building in which one but not more than five guest rooms
are used to provide or offer overnight accommodations to transient guests for
compensation.
      TOWN ATTORNEY. The licensed attorney designated by the legally authorized
body to furnish legal assistance for the administration of these regulations in
lieu of the Commission having its own attorney.
      TOWN ENGINEER. The licensed engineer designated by the town to furnish
engineering assistance in the administration of these regulations.
      TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. Secretarial or business school or college when
not publicly owned or not owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious, charitable, or non-profit organization; or a school conducted as a
commercial enterprise for teaching instrumental music, dancing, barbering or
hair dressing, drafting, or for teaching industrial or technical arts.
      TRANSFER STATION. A facility at which solid waste is transferred from a
vehicle or a container to another vehicle or container for transportation. The
term does not include:
         (a)   A facility where the solid waste has been generated by the
facility; or
         (b)   A recycling facility.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle or other portable structure designed to move on
the highway, not under its own power, and designed or used as a temporary
dwelling.
      USE. The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated,
arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
      USED OR OCCUPIED. As applied to any land or building, shall be construed
to include the words “intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied”.
      UTILITIES. Installations for transmission of water, sewage, gas,
electricity, telecommunications, or stormwater, and similar facilities
providing service to and used by the public.
      VARIANCE. A modification, granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals, of the
strict terms of the relevant regulations of the zoning ordinance and
subdivision regulations where such modification will not be contrary to the
public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not
the result of the action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this
chapter and regulations would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
      VETERINARY ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR CLINIC. A place used for the care,
diagnosis, and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm, or injured animals, and those
who are in need of medical or surgical attention, and may include overnight
accommodations on the premises for the treatment, observation, and/or
recuperation. It may also include boarding that is incidental to the principal
activity or use.
      VICINITY MAP. A drawing, located on the plat, that sets forth by
dimensions or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use
to other nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities and services
within the general area in order to better locate and orient the area in
question.
      VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS. A triangular space at the street corner
of a corner lot, free from any kind of obstruction to vision between the
heights of three and 12 feet above established grade, determined by a diagonal
line connecting two points measured 15 feet equidistant from the street corner
along each lot line.
      WALKWAY. A public way four feet or more in width, for pedestrian use
only, whether along the side of a street or not.
      YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal building, such space being
open, unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to
sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard across the full width of the lot extending from the
front line of the principal building to the front lot line.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending the full width of the lot between a
principal building and the rear lot line or lines.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the principal building and side lot line and
extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line.
      ZONING. The division of an area into districts and the public regulation
of the character and intensity of the use of the land, and of the buildings and
structures which may be located thereon, in accordance with the Comprehensive
Plan.
      ZONING DISTRICT. Any area of the town’s zoning jurisdiction within which
the zoning regulations are uniform.
      ZONING DISTRICT MAP. The map setting forth the boundaries of the zoning
districts of the town, which map is part of the zoning ordinance.
      ZONING ORDINANCE. A legal tool for accomplishing the objectives of a land
use plan. It is an effective regulatory measure designed to encourage high
standards of development by regulating the character and intensity of the use
of land, the area of building coverage, and the height of structures.
References to ZONING ORDINANCES in this document are to the most recent zoning
ordinance of the town, unless otherwise noted.
      ZONING PERMIT. A document issued by the Town Building Inspector
authorizing the use of lots, structures, uses of land and buildings, and the
characteristics of the uses.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005; Ord. passed 8-15-2005)
PROCEDURE FOR SUBMISSION OF PLATS
§ 151.025 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The procedure for review and approval of a subdivision plat shall
consist of four separate steps, in sequence:
      (1)   An advisory (informal discussion) meeting with the Plan Commission;
      (2)   Preparation and submission of a preliminary plat;
      (3)   Preparation and submission of construction plans of the proposed
subdivision; and
      (4)   Preparation and submission of a final plat of the subdivision.
   (B)   (1)   No person proposing a subdivision shall proceed with any grading
and improvements for streets or installation of public utilities until the
preliminary plat and construction plans of the proposed subdivision is approved
by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   No person proposing a subdivision shall sell, agree to sell,
transfer, lease, or otherwise convey any lot, parcel, or tract in a
subdivision, or construct or commence the construction of any building in a
subdivision until the final plat of the proposed subdivision is approved by the
Commission and recorded in accordance with the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.026 ADVISORY MEETING WITH PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Whenever the owner of any tract or parcel of land in the planning
jurisdiction of the town intends to make a subdivision, the subdivider shall,
before preparing a preliminary plat, meet and consult informally with the Plan
Commission for the purpose of ascertaining the locations of proposed major
streets, parks, playgrounds, school sites, and other planned projects which may
affect the property being considered for the subdivision. At this meeting, the
Plan Commission will identify the proposed site on the town’s zoning map and
discuss potential problems of the site with the developer.
   (B)   In order to assist the Commission in evaluating the proposed
development, the subdivider shall submit a sketch plan to the Commission at the
advisory meeting. This sketch plan shall include, as a minimum, the proposed
lot layout, proposed street layout with street names (subject to approval by
the Plan Commission in coordination with 911 emergency services), location of
adjoinment with existing streets and public utilities, and proposed subdivision
name. The information provided with the sketch plan will also help the
Commission ascertain which other review agencies, if any, need to be involved
in the subdivision review and approval process. At the same meeting, the
subdivider should review with the Plan Commission the minimum standards of
subdivision design set forth in §§
151.040 to
151.057 and as required by the town’s construction standards. This informal
review should prevent unnecessary and costly revisions in the layout and
development of the subdivision.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.027 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   After meeting informally with the Plan Commission, the subdivider shall
cause to be prepared a preliminary plat as required herein.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Five copies of the preliminary plat and required supplemental
material shall be filed with the Administrative Assistant of the town, unless
otherwise provided for by ordinance. Such filing shall take place at least 30
days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Plan Commission, at which
time the preliminary plat is to be considered.
      (2)   Preliminary plats shall generally comply with the reviewed sketch
plan and specifically include any terms and conditions established at the
advisory meeting. Preliminary plats must include names and addresses of the
owner, developer, and surveyor or engineer.
      (3)   The plat shall be accompanied by an “application for preliminary
plat” available at Town Hall and a filing fee of $50 plus $1 for each lot. Such
fee will be utilized to cover the cost of checking and verifying the proposed
plat. If the preliminary plat is amended to change the lot layout or make any
other major changes, an additional filing fee of $50 plus $1 per lot will be
required to cover the cost of reviewing the revised plans.
      (4)   Upon receipt of the application or an amended preliminary plat, the
Plan Commission shall schedule a public hearing on the preliminary plat or
amended plat. Notice of such public hearing shall be advertised in one local
newspaper of general circulation ten days prior to the hearing as required by
and in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The applicant shall be responsible for
notifying all adjoining property owners, by certified mail, as to the date,
time, place, and purpose of the public hearing. The applicant must file the
return receipts, provided by the post office, to verify that the notifications
were delivered, or, if delivery failed, the certified mail receipts showing
that they were sent with the Commission at the time of the public hearing.
      (5)   Following the public hearing and upon due consideration of the
preliminary plat, the Plan Commission shall approve, disapprove, or modify the
proposed plat and shall impose those requirements or grant those variances in
conformance with this chapter deemed necessary and appropriate for final
approval.
      (6)   Approval of the preliminary plat by the Plan Commission shall not
constitute approval to begin improvements. Such approval shall be given only
upon submittal and approval of construction plans. Approval of construction
plans is an integral part of the preliminary plat process; if construction
plans have not been specifically approved at the time that a preliminary plat
is approved, such approval shall be deemed contingent upon later approval of
construction plans.
      (7)   The approval of the preliminary plat shall lapse unless a final
plat based thereon is submitted within 18 months from the date of such
approval. An extension of time may be granted by the Plan Commission upon
application by the subdivider.
      (8)   One copy of the preliminary plat shall be returned to the applicant
with the date of approval, conditional approval, or disapproval and, when
requested by the applicant, the reasons therefor accompanying the plat within
30 days following the public hearing.
   (B)   Preliminary plat data.
      (1)   Accompanying the preliminary plat, the developer will submit the
form entitled site environmental assessment. This form, to be completed by a
registered surveyor or engineer, will provide information as to the existing
site conditions, soil suitability, and proposed site treatment techniques.
      (2)   The preliminary plat shall meet the standards of design as set
forth in §§
151.040 to
151.057 and shall show the following information:
         (a)   Scale of 100 feet to one inch or larger;
         (b)   Name of subdivision, along with recorded deed information; names
and addresses of the owners, the engineer or surveyor, the developer (if
different from the owner), and the owners of adjacent property;
         (c)   A vicinity sketch at a scale of 200 feet to one inch or less;
         (d)   Date, approximate north point, and graphic scale;
         (e)   Legal description of the land to be subdivided, including
acreage;
         (f)   Existing contours at an interval of not greater than two feet or
at a lesser interval if deemed necessary by the Plan Commission;
         (g)   Existing streams, gullies, wooded areas, buildings, and other
natural or human-made features;
         (h)   Survey data including section, township and range, latitude and
longitude; and boundary lines of area to be subdivided and their bearings and
distances;
         (i)   Existing and proposed easements and their locations, widths, and
distances within 500 feet;
         (j)   Existing and proposed zoning on and adjacent to the tract;
         (k)   Existing and proposed platting of adjacent property, showing
owners’ names;
         (l)   Existing or proposed streets on and adjacent to the tract and
their names, right-of way widths, approximate grades, and other dimensions as
may be required;
         (m)   Lot lines with dimensions and lot numbers;
         (n)   Sites and their acreages, if any, currently or to be reserved or
dedicated for parks, playgrounds, schools, or other public uses;
         (o)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts, or other underground
facilities within the tract or within 500 feet thereof, indicating pipe sizes,
grades, and exact locations, as obtained from public record;
         (p)   Sites, if any, for semi-public, commercial, industrial, or
multi-family use. Proposed building location and internal circulation should be
shown, especially the location and number of entrances onto public streets;
         (q)   Minimum building setback lines showing dimensions;
         (r)   Approximate locations of 100-year flood elevations along all
streams; and
         (s)   If the proposed subdivision is within the two-mile fringe of the
town, then the plat shall contain the following language: “The owner/developer
of this subdivision does hereby waive, for himself or herself and all
successors and assigns, any objection or remonstrance to the annexation of this
tract, and each lot therein, by the Town of Hanover, Indiana, which waiver of
remonstrance to annexation shall be a covenant running with the land.”
      (3)   Whenever part of a tract is proposed to be subdivided and it is
intended to subdivide additional parts of the tract in the future, a sketch
plan for the entire tract shall be submitted to the Plan Commission at the same
time the preliminary plat for the first part of the tract to be platted is
submitted.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.028 APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   Subdivision construction plans shall be developed and submitted to the Plan
Commission in accordance with the construction standards and as specified
herein.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Following the approval of the preliminary plat and prior to
submission of the final plat, the applicant, if he or she wishes to proceed
with the subdivision, shall file with the Plan Commission before starting any
work or improvements four sets of the detailed plans and specifications thereof
for approval.
      (2)   The plans shall be prepared and certified by a licensed surveyor or
engineer. The Commission shall have these plans reviewed by a surveyor or
engineer of its choice who is licensed in the state, at the expense of the
applicant, and shall refer these plans to the appropriate local agencies for
review and comment. Once these agencies indicate their approval of the
construction plans or 14 working days have elapsed without a written response,
the Commission shall stamp the plans approved and return one set to the
applicant. Revisions and resubmittals of the construction plans as required by
review comments shall be at the expense of the applicant.
      (3)   In no event shall final plat approval be given prior to approval of
the construction plans.
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to submit all
necessary documents, plans and specifications, and filing fees to state and
county regulatory agencies for consideration of approval as prescribed by their
laws and regulations. Such agencies could, but not necessarily, include the
state’s Department of Environmental Management, the state’s Department of
Natural Resources, the state’s Department of Transportation, the Administrative
Building Council, and the County Health Department. The Commission will not
accept construction plans for a subdivision without receiving approvals from
these agencies (where applicable per the engineer or surveyor designated by the
Plan Commission).
      (5)   The installation of improvements shall be in accordance with the
approved construction plans and shall be inspected by the designated town
official. Such inspections are required in all instances regardless of whether
the work is performed before or after final plat approval. Failure to request
inspection or to proceed without proper notification to the designated official
may be cause for denial of final plat approval. Developers will submit all
certifications to the appropriate town official.
   (B)   Construction plans data.
      (1)   The construction plans and specifications shall consist of all
cross sections, profiles, details, material specifications, installation
requirements, and other engineering data necessary for the proper design and
construction of the proposed improvements. Plans shall be at a scale of one
inch equals 100 feet and profiles at a scale of one inch equals five feet in
the vertical dimension. Topographic contour lines shall be at two-foot contour
intervals. The plans shall include, as a minimum, the following information.
         (a)   Streets. Roadway plan and profiles including horizontal and
vertical alignment data, road widths, rights-of-way, existing and proposed
elevations, existing topographic features, profile of the road centerline, all
utilities existing and proposed; typical sections; detail sheets for roadway
structures and appurtenances; and material specifications.
         (b)   Sanitary sewers. Sewer plan and profiles showing existing
topographic features, the alignment and size of pipes, location of all
manholes, property service connections, other utilities, property lines,
easements, and other information necessary to locate and construct the sewer;
material specifications; and plans for any lift stations, force mains, siphons,
and the like with necessary structural, mechanical, and electrical drawings;
and material specifications. If sanitary sewers are not provided, the developer
must have soil tests for each individual lot, by an Indiana-licensed soil
scientist, indicating that each lot will support a private septic system, and
shall also provide approved septic permits from the state or local Health
Department.
         (c)   Storm sewers. Sewer plan and profiles showing the alignment and
size of pipes, the location of manholes, catch basins, drop inlets, headwalls
or other appurtenances, easements, other utilities, and property lines; detail
sheets for all structures, ditch cross sections, erosion control devices; and
material specifications.
         (d)   Water mains. Plan layouts of all water lines, meters, vaults,
valves, hydrants, other utilities, property lines, and easements; details for
appurtenances, thrust blocks, connections, meters, and the like; and material
specifications.
         (e)   Site grading. A site grading and drainage plan showing the
proposed development and drainage system, existing and proposed contours and
necessary spot elevations to determine minimum building pad elevations,
drainage flow patterns, break points, elevations between building pads, and the
like.
         (f)   Design summary. An engineering design report including the
design data and calculation results supporting the selection and sizing of all
water and sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer and culvert pipes, drainage
ditches, other structures, and other pertinent design information as the Plan
Commission may require.
      (2)   Construction plans and specifications shall be certified and
stamped by a professional engineer holding current registration in the state.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.029 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat and
construction plans as approved, and may constitute only a portion of the
preliminary plat, which the subdivider proposed to record and develop.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Following approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat
and construction plans, the applicant, if he or she wishes to proceed with the
subdivision, shall file with the Commission a request for final plat approval.
The application shall be filed on forms available at the office of the Plan
Commission. Such filing shall take place at least 30 days prior to the meeting
of the Plan Commission at which it is to be considered.
      (2)   If the subdivider elects not to install all required improvements
before application for final plat approval, security (performance) bond or
certified check in sufficient amount to assure such completion of any and all
remaining improvements shall be submitted to the Plan Commission with the
application for final plat approval. The scheduled time of completion of
improvements and installations shall be specified. It shall also be specified
that upon completion, but prior to acceptance, a 12-month maintenance bond
shall be provided for street, utility, and drainage improvements to the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer shall hold all bonds pending completion of
construction.
      (3)   Three black line or blue line prints, and one reproducible print of
the final plat, and the required supplementary material shall be submitted with
the application.
      (4)   One copy of the final plat shall be transmitted to the Town
Engineer who will check said plat as to computations, certifications,
monuments, and the like, and that all the required improvements have been
completed to the satisfaction of the town officials having jurisdiction, or, in
the case where a security bond or certified check has been posted, such is
sufficient to cover the cost of the required improvements. If found
satisfactory, he or she will return the copy of the final plat to the Plan
Commission with his or her approval certified within ten days of receipt
thereof. Changes from the approved preliminary plat could result in the final
plat being denied.
      (5)   Upon receiving a certification of approval from the Town Engineer,
the Plan Commission shall review the said final plat for conformity with the
minimum standards and requirements as provided in this chapter. If the plat
meets all requirements of the subdivision regulations, and all recommendations
made at the time of preliminary plat and construction plan approval have been
carried out, the Plan Commission shall give final approval.
      (6)   Should it be determined by the Plan Commission that the final plat
does not conform to the approved preliminary plat and/or the requirements of
this chapter, the subdivision shall be resubmitted to the Commission at a
public hearing for final approval. Notification and advertising procedures
shall be followed as previously outlined in §
151.027(A)(4).
      (7)   With the exception of those improvements required by §§
151.040 to
151.057, no work shall be done on the subdivision and no lots shall be sold
before the final plat is accepted and recorded.
      (8)   If the subdivider elects to install all improvements before
application for final plat approval, and it is shown that the conditions of the
chapter have been met, and if the final plat completely conforms to the
approved preliminary plat, the Commission shall have no recourse but to grant
final plat approval.
   (B)   Sectionalizing/phasing plats. Prior to granting final plat approval,
the Commission may permit the plat to be divided into two or more sections/
phases and may impose such conditions upon the filing of the sections/phases as
it may deem necessary to assure the orderly development of the plat. The
Commission may require that the performance bond be in an amount proportional
to the section(s)/phase(s) of the plat to be filed and may defer the balance of
the bond principal amount until the remaining section(s)/phase(s) of the plat
are offered for filing. Such sections/phases must contain at least 20 lots or
10% of the total number of lots contained in the approved plat, whichever is
less. The approval of all remaining sections/phases not filed with the
Commission shall automatically expire two years from the date of the
preliminary plat approval date unless such date is formally extended. It is the
responsibility of the applicant to formally request such an extension.
   (C)   Final plat data. The final plat shall be an original, reproducible
tracing, 24 inches by 36 inches, with permanent ink on Mylar at a scale of 100
feet to one inch or larger and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Date, title, name, and location of subdivision, graphic scale,
north arrow, name and address of subdivider, and owner of the property;
      (2)   All dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat
shall be tied to section corners or quarter-section corners as defined by the
U.S. Public Lands Survey and maintained by the County Surveyor. Locations and
descriptions of said control points shall be given, except where deemed clearly
unreasonable or infeasible by the Plan Commission;
      (3)   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements, and
other right-of way, and property lines of residential lots with accurate
dimensions to the nearest one hundredth of a foot; bearings of deflection
angles, radii, arcs, and central angles of all curves with dimensions to the
nearest 30 seconds;
      (4)   Name and right-of-way width of each street, and descriptions of all
easement(s) or other rights-of-way;
      (5)   Lot numbers, lot lines, and all dimensions;
      (6)   The accurate outline of all property, which is offered for
dedication for public use with the purpose thereof indicated, and all property
that may be reserved by deed covenant or restriction for the common use
property owners of the subdivision;
      (7)   Minimum building setback lines with dimensions;
      (8)   Location and description of monuments;
      (9)   Location and description of utility and drainage easements;
      (10)   Location of the “100-year” flood elevations along any streams;
      (11)   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions and streets, the
location of adjoining unplatted properties, and the names and addresses of the
owners of adjoining unplatted properties;
      (12)   Certification on plat of title showing that the applicant is the
owner, that the making of the plat receives his or her consent and is in
accordance with his or her desires, and a statement by such owner dedicating
streets, rights-of-way, and any other sites for public use (Form 1);
      (13)   Certification on plat by an Indiana-registered engineer or land
surveyor as to the accuracy of survey and plat (Form 2);
      (14)   Certification by the County Board of Health when individual
sewerage disposal or water systems are to be installed (Form 3);
      (15)   Protective covenants and deed restrictions shall either be placed
directly on the final plat or attached thereto in form for recording.
Deviations to the plat plan shall be submitted to the Plan Commission. The
developer shall get approval for any plat changes. The developer shall submit
“as-built” drawings upon completion;
      (16)   Drainage plan approved by the Town Engineer; and
      (17)   If the proposed subdivision is within the two-mile fringe of the
town, then the plat shall contain the following language: “The owner/developer
of this subdivision does hereby waive, for himself or herself and all
successors and assigns, any objection or remonstrance to the annexation of this
tract, and each lot therein, by the Town of Hanover, Indiana, which waiver of
remonstrance to annexation shall be a covenant running with the land.”
   (D)   Recording of the final plat.
      (1)   Upon approval of the final plat, the President and Secretary of the
Commission shall sign the certificate, which shall be part of the reproducible
Mylar of the subdivision, plus two prints of it. The Mylar shall be 24 inches
by 36 inches and be returned to the subdivider for recording. One of the two
prints shall be returned as the subdivider’s copy.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to file with the
County Recorder one copy of the approved final plat within 30 days of the final
plat signature date. Failure to file within this time shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Any deviations to the plat plan shall void the approved plat. A
revised plat, plus an additional filing fee, shall be submitted to Plan
Commission for approval prior to recording. The developer shall submit “as
built” drawings upon completion of all required improvements.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
REQUIREMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.040 GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdivision plats
and improvements shall comply with the following laws, rules, and regulations:
   (A)   All applicable federal, state, and local statutory provisions;
   (B)   The town’s zoning ordinance, building and housing codes, and all other
applicable laws and ordinances of the appropriate jurisdictions;
   (C)   The town’s construction standards;
   (D)   All applicable rules and regulations of the County Health Department;
   (E)   The rules and regulations of the state’s Department of Transportation
if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abut a state highway or state
frontage road; and
   (F)   All pertinent standards contained within current planning guides
published by the county or town Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.041 PLATS CROSSING MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES.
   Whenever access to the subdivision is required across land in another
jurisdiction, the Commission may request assurance from the Town Attorney that
such access is legally established, and from the Town Engineer that the access
road is adequately improved, or that a performance bond has been duly executed
and is of sufficient amount to insure the construction of such access road. Lot
lines shall be laid out so as not to cross municipal boundary lines.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.042 SUBDIVISION NAME.
   The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate the name of any
other subdivision in the area covered by these regulations. Subdivision names
that may be spelled differently but sound the same as existing subdivision
names shall not be used. The Commission shall have final authority to approve
or otherwise designate the name of the subdivision, which shall be determined
at time of preliminary plat approval.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.043 SUITABILITY OF THE LAND FOR SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   If the Plan Commission finds that land proposed to be subdivided is
unsuitable for subdivision development due to flooding, poor drainage, steep
slopes, rock formations, and other such conditions as may increase the danger
of health, life, or property or aggravate erosion or flood hazards: and, if
from adequate investigations, conducted by all the public agencies concerned,
it has been determined that in the best interest of the public the land should
not be platted and developed for the purpose proposed, the Plan Commission
shall not approve the land for subdivision unless adequate methods are
formulated by the subdivider for meeting the problems that will be created by
the subdivision and development of the land.
   (B)   The Plan Commission may refuse to approve what it considers to be
scattered or premature subdivision of land which would involve danger or injury
to the public health, safety, welfare, or prosperity by reason of lack of
adequate water supply, schools, proper drainage, good roads and transportation
facilities, or other public services; or which would necessitate an excessive
expenditure of public funds for the supply of such services (such as undue
maintenance costs for adequate roads). The Plan Commission may require the
subdivider to prepare an impact study, reviewed by a licensed surveyor or
engineer, to show that the proposed development will not adversely affect the
existing infrastructure.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.044 LOT IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Lots shall be designated by numbers. Streets, avenues, and other
grounds shall be designated by names or numbers.
   (B)   The following provisions shall pertain, except that modifications may
be permitted in planned unit developments (PUDs).
      (1)   Lot arrangement. The lot arrangement shall be such that there will
be no foreseeable difficulties for reasons of topography or other conditions in
securing building permits to build on each of the created lots in compliance
with the zoning ordinance and local health regulations. Driveway access shall
be provided for each building on such lots from the appropriate approved
street. Except where not feasible, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight street lines and radial to curved street lines.
      (2)   Lot dimensions. The size, shape, and lot dimensions within the
jurisdiction of this chapter shall conform to the minimum requirements of the
zoning ordinance. Where lots are more than double the minimum required area for
the zoning district, the Commission may require that such lots be arranged so
as to allow further subdivision and the opening of future streets where they
would be necessary to serve all potential lots. Dimensions of corner lots shall
be large enough to allow for erection of buildings when observing the minimum
front yard setback from both streets. Depth and width of properties reserved or
laid out for business, commercial, or industrial purposes shall be adequate to
provide for all off-street parking and loading facilities as may be required by
the zoning ordinance.
      (3)   Building line setback. The building line to establish yards for all
buildings and lots shall be as provided in the zoning ordinance.
      (4)   Yard requirements. Yard requirements for residential subdivisions
or the portions thereof within the jurisdiction of this chapter shall be the
same as the yard requirements set forth in the zoning ordinance for the zoning
district or districts in which they are located.
      (5)   Double frontage lots and access to lots.
         (a)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage and reversed frontage lots
shall be avoided except where necessary to provide for the separation of
residential development from the traffic on bordering arterials or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography and orientation affecting the subdivided
lots.
         (b)   Access from principal and minor arterials. Access to lots shall
come only from local roads or cul-de-sacs and not from principal arterial
roads, minor arterial roads, or collector streets. If proposed lots do not have
access to an already existing local road or cul-de-sac, the subdivider shall
build a new road to current county standards to create the needed access. This
section does not apply to lots created by a minor subdivision plat nor to a
subdivision in which all lots contain at least 20 acres.
      (6)   Lot drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive
drainage away from all buildings and individual lot drainage shall be
coordinated with the general stormwater drainage pattern for the area. Drainage
shall be designed so as to avoid the accumulation of stormwater on any one or
more lots from adjacent lots. It shall be the responsibility of the lot owner
to maintain the lot grade, as it applies to drainage, as provided for in the
approved construction plans.
      (7)   Debris and waste. No cut trees, timber, debris, contaminated earth,
rocks, stones, contaminated soil, junk, rubbish, or other waste material of any
kind shall be buried in any land, or left or deposited on any lot or street at
the time of occupancy within a subdivision, nor shall any be left or deposited
in any area of the subdivision at the time of expiration of the performance
bond or dedication of public improvements, whichever is sooner.
      (8)   Fencing. Each subdivider and/or developer shall be required to
furnish and install fences wherever the Commission, upon the advice of the
Building Inspector, determines that a hazardous condition may exist. The fences
shall be noted as to height and material on the final plat.
      (9)   Water bodies and watercourses. If a tract being subdivided contains
a water body, or portion thereof, lot lines shall be so drawn as to distribute
the entire ownership of the water body among the owners of the lots adjacent to
the water body. The Commission may approve an alternative allocation of
interests whereby the ownership of and responsibility for safe maintenance of
the water body is so placed that it will not become a local government
responsibility. No part of the minimum area of a lot required under the zoning
ordinance may be satisfied by land which is under water. Where a watercourse
separates the buildable area of a lot from the street from which it has access,
provisions shall be made for installation of a culvert or other structure, of a
design approved by the Town Engineer.
      (10)   Flood hazards.
         (a)   Land subject to flooding and land deemed to be topographically
unsuitable for residential development shall not be platted for residential use
or for any other use which may increase the danger of health, life, or property
or aggravate erosion or flood hazards. Such land within the subdivision shall
be set aside on the plat for such uses as will not be endangered by periodic or
occasional inundation contrary to the public welfare. To ensure that lots will
be located only where they will provide flood-free house sites, the Plan
Commission may require the subdivider to provide elevation and flood profiles
sufficient to demonstrate that the house sites will be completely free from the
danger of flooding.
         (b)   If a stream flows through or adjacent to the proposed
subdivision, the plat shall provide for an easement or right-of-way along the
stream for a floodway. For smaller streams, those in which the floodway for a
100-year flood is 50 feet wide or less, the Plan Commission may require channel
improvements and/or retention facilities to avoid flooding of downstream
properties. The floor elevations of houses shall be high enough to be a minimum
of two feet above the 100-year flood. The floodway easement shall be wide
enough to provide for future enlargement of the stream channel as adjacent
areas become more highly developed and runoff rates are increased.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.045 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   In all platted surveys, a professional land surveyor shall make a
determination of the boundary and corners of the parcel being surveyed. Unless
an adequate monument already exists at each parcel corner, a professional land
surveyor shall set a monument or a witness monument at each corner of a parcel
as provided in this section.
   (B)   A monument or witness monument set by a professional land surveyor
shall:
      (1)   Be made of, or contain, a ferrous material;
      (2)   Be not less than five-eighths inch in diameter and 24 inches in
length;
      (3)   Be a minimum of schedule 40 weight if pipe is utilized; and
      (4)   Be identified with a cap bearing the registration number of the
professional land surveyor responsible for and in charge of the survey.
   (C)   A monument or witness monument shall be required at each corner of a
platted survey. A parcel corner shall be identified by a witness monument if a
monument cannot be set because the corner falls on rock, concrete, or other
like material; is likely to be disturbed; or is inaccessible. A witness
monument shall be set on the boundary line, if practicable, and as close as
practicable to the corner location.
   (D)   A professional land surveyor shall set each monument in a manner to
avoid its destruction. A tree shall not be established as a corner monument
except in a rural boundary survey. A tree that a professional land surveyor
establishes as a corner monument shall be at least ten inches in diameter at
breast height; in sound condition; marked in a conspicuous manner; and clearly
described on the plat, and in the written description, by size, species, and
method of marking. Trees shall not constitute more than 50% of the established
monuments for a platted survey in a rural land classification. For an urban and
suburban survey in which a tree is found to be the monument of record, the tree
shall be witness-monumented.
   (E)   A corner monument that a professional land surveyor has determined is
not of sound condition, or which fails to meet the standards established in
this section, shall be witness-monumented to perpetuate the corner location.
   (F)   The following distinct physical features may be utilized as a
monument:
      (1)   A watercourse;
      (2)   A ridge;
      (3)   A road; or
      (4)   A cliff.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.046 STREETS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be subdivided
includes frontage on or access from an existing street as designated by the
town street map and providing such street has existing public right-of-way
allowing public access to the subdivided area.
      (2)   Streets shall be graded and improved in accordance with the
construction standards, the approved construction plans, and as provided
herein.
   (B)   Topography and arrangement.
      (1)   Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography. All
streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of the building
sites at, or above, the grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall conform
as closely as possible to the original topography. A combination of steep
grades and sharp curves shall be avoided.
      (2)   All arterials and collector streets shall be properly related to
special traffic generators such as industries, business districts, schools,
churches, and shopping centers; to population densities; and to the pattern of
existing and proposed land uses.
      (3)   Local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible to
the topography to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient
drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of streets
necessary to provide convenient and safe access to the property.
      (4)   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
access ways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas, walkways, bikeways, and parking areas so as to minimize
conflict of movement between the various types of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic
   (C)   Street extensions.
      (1)   The street layout of the proposed subdivision shall provide for the
continuation or projection of streets and alleys already existing in areas
adjacent to the area being subdivided.
      (2)   Where, at the determination of the Plan Commission, it is desirable
to provide street access to adjoining properties, proposed streets shall be
extended by dedication to the boundaries of such properties. Where the Plan
Commission deems it necessary, such dead-end streets shall be provided with a
temporary turn around approved by the Plan Commission.
      (3)   The street system for the proposed subdivision shall provide for
extending existing streets at the same or greater width, but in no case shall a
street extension be of less width than the minimum width required in these
regulations for a street in its category.
   (D)   Dedication of right-of-way for new streets.
      (1)   The dedication of right-of-way for new streets measured from lot
line to lot line shall be as shown in Table IV-1.
      (2)   All streets classified as arterial streets by the Transportation
Plan shall have all points of access approved by the Plan Commission. The
Commission may require marginal access streets or frontage roads for
subdivisions fronting on arterial streets.
      (3)   Through business areas, street widths shall be increased ten feet
on each side if needed to provide parking without interfering with normal
traffic patterns.
Table IV-1 Design Standards for Streets
 Arterial Streets Collector Streets Local Streets Cul-de-Sacs
Table IV-1 Design Standards for Streets
                 Arterial Streets Collector Streets Local Streets Cul-de-Sacs
Curve length(2)  70 x A           40 x A            40 x A        40 x A
SAG              80 x A           30 x A            30 x A        30 x A
Crest
Horizontal curve 400 ft.          100 ft.           100 ft.       100 ft.
minimum radius
Maximum grade    5%               7%                10%           7%
Minimum angle    90 degrees       80 degrees        70 degrees    70 degrees
for intersection
Minimum corner   30 ft.           20 ft.            20 ft.        20 ft.
radius
Minimum grade    0.5%             0.5%              0.5%          0.5%
Minimum street   28 ft.           24 ft.            24 ft.        24 ft.
width(1)
Minimum tangent
length between   200 ft.          100 ft.           100 ft.       100 ft.
reverse curves
Right-of-way     120 ft.          80 ft.            50 ft.        100 ft. diam.
width
Vertical curve
minimum sight    500 ft.          200 ft.           100 ft.       100 ft.
distance
(1) Street width is defined as the distance from back of curb to back of curb.
Where curb and gutter is not required, minimum street width can be reduced by
two feet.
(2) Vertical curve length is defined by multiplying the algebraic difference in
grade (A) by the value shown in the Table.
 
   (E)   Dedication of right-of-way for existing streets. Subdivisions platted
along existing streets after the effective date of this chapter shall dedicate
additional right-of-way if necessary to meet the minimum street width
requirements set above for new subdivision streets.
      (1)   The entire minimum right-of-way width shall be dedicated where the
subdivision is located on both sides of the existing street. When the
subdivision is located on only one side of an existing street, one-half the
required right-of-way width, measured from the centerline of the existing
roadway, shall be dedicated.
      (2)   Dedication of one-half of the rights-of-way for proposed streets
along the boundaries of land proposed for subdivision shall be prohibited.
   (F)   Street grades and elevations.
      (1)   All streets shall be designed so as to provide for the discharge of
surface water from the pavement and right-of-way by grading and drainage.
Street grades and curvatures shall be as listed in Table IV-1.
      (2)   The Plan Commission will not approve any streets that will be
subject to inundation or flooding. All streets must be located at elevations
that will make them flood free in the event of a 100-year flood. Fill may be
used in areas subject to flooding in order to provide flood-free streets if
such fill does not unduly increase flood heights and where allowed by and in
accordance with any applicable rules and regulations of the state’s Department
of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Drainage openings under any streets shall be designed so as not to
restrict the flow of water, thereby unduly increasing flood heights.
   (G)   Intersections.
      (1)   In general, all streets shall join each other so that for a
distance of at least 100 feet the street is approximately at right angles to
the street it joins.
      (2)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a
leveling area shall be provided having 2% maximum grade at least 60 feet in
distance measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting
street.
      (3)   No lot or other parcel of land which abuts on and has access to
either a collector or a local access street shall have a service drive, curb
cut, or other means of access to an arterial street within 50 feet of the
right-of-way of any street which intersects such arterial street on the side on
which such lot or parcel is located.
   (H)   Gutters and curbs.
      (1)   Gutters and curbs shall not be required for streets in subdivisions
designed for two dwelling units or less per acre of ground within the
boundaries of the plat.
      (2)   Gutters and curbs shall be required for all streets in subdivisions
as designed for more than two dwelling units per acre of ground within the
boundaries of the plat.
      (3)   Gutters and curbs may be required in the case of marginal access
streets.
      (4)   Gutters and curbs may be integral concrete curb or combined gutter
and curb type and may be designed with either straight or rolled curb section.
   (I)   Dead-ends and cul-de-sacs.
      (1)   Dead-end streets shall not be allowed unless specifically approved
by the Plan Commission. Where allowed, dead-end streets shall not exceed 800
feet in length.
      (2)   Minor terminal streets or courts (cul-de-sacs) which are designed
so as to have one end permanently closed shall not be longer than 800 feet.
Such streets shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a
radius at the outside of the pavement of at least 40 feet and a radius at the
outside of the right-of-way of at least 50 feet. The cul-de-sac shall be a
geometric shape so as to contain an 80-foot diameter minimum circle.
   (J)   Names. Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name
within the area covered by these regulations, except where a new street is a
continuation of an existing street. Street names that may be spelled
differently but sound the same as existing street names shall not be used. The
Plan Commission shall coordinate with 911 services and have final authority to
approve the names of streets, which shall be determined at the time of sketch
plan approval.
   (K)   Private streets, reserve strips, and alleys.
      (1)   There shall be no private streets, nor any alleys, platted within a
subdivision.
      (2)   There shall be no reserve strips in a subdivision except where
their control is rested in the town or county under conditions approved by the
Plan Commission as authorized in these regulations.
   (L)   Access to collector streets. Where possible, lots in single-family
residential subdivisions fronting on collector streets shall be avoided, and
lots at the corners of intersections between local and collector streets shall
front on the local street and have driveway access to it only and not to the
collector street. In multiple-family residential areas, entrances to group
parking lots shall have access only to local streets (where possible) and such
entrances shall be widely spaced.
   (M)   Access to principal arterials. Where a subdivision borders on or
contains an existing or proposed principal arterial, the Commission may require
that access to it be limited by one of the following means:
      (1)   Design of the subdivision lots so as to have the rear yards
adjacent to the principal arterial and frontage onto a parallel local street.
No access shall be provided from the principal arterial and screening shall be
provided within a strip of land along the rear property line of such lots;
      (2)   A series of cul-de-sacs, or loop streets entered from, and designed
generally to be at right angles to, an access street that is at some distance
from and parallel to arterial street, with the rear yards of the terminal lots
adjacent to the arterial; or
      (3)   A marginal access or service road (separated from the principal
arterial by a landscaped and/or decoratively fenced grass strip and having
access thereto at widely spaced suitable points).
   (N)   Street regulatory signs. A street name sign shall be provided at every
street intersection within a subdivision. All necessary stop, speed limit, and
other traffic-control devices and signs shall be provided and be in conformance
with the Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices. The town shall inspect and
approve all street signs.
   (O)   Street lights. A lighting plan drawn up by developer and submitted
with the construction plans shall require streetlights at all intersections,
dead-ends, and entrances to platted subdivisions.
   (P)   Railroads and limited access highways. Railroad rights-of-way and
limited access highways, where so located as to affect the subdivision of
adjoining lands, shall be treated as follows.
      (1)   In residential districts a buffer strip at least 25 feet in depth
in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall be
provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway. This
strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated on the plat:
“This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of structures hereon other
than earth berms, walls, fences, and other landscape screening devices approved
by the Commission is prohibited.”
      (2)   In districts zoned for business, commercial, or industrial uses,
the nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to a railroad
shall, wherever practical, be at a sufficient distance from there to ensure a
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
      (3)   Streets parallel to a railroad when intersecting a street, which
crosses the railroad at grade, shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way. Such distance
shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for
future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
   (Q)   Construction standards for streets.
      (1)   The base course for streets and alleys shall contain a minimum of
12 inches of compacted crushed stone or creek gravel with voids filled by sand
or limestone screenings. Subgrade soil conditions shall be evaluated by the
Building Inspector. Where drainage and soil conditions warrant, additional
depth shall be required at the discretion of the Plan Commission or the
Building Inspector. Subgrade shall be compacted to 90% of maximum density for a
depth of 12 inches as determined by proctor needle test.
      (2)   All hot-mix asphalt pavement shall have 220 pounds per square yard
bituminous with 110 pounds per square yard bituminous wearing surface. Other
types of pavements used shall be approved by the Plan Commission or Building
Inspector as equivalent to the just-described hot-mix asphalt.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.047 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Length. Block lengths shall not exceed 1,320 feet or be less than 400
feet except as the Plan Commission considers necessary to secure efficient use
of land or desired features of street layout. Blocks along arterials and
collector streets shall not be less than 1,000 feet in length.
   (B)   Width. Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots of
minimum depth. However, where topographical conditions or the size of the
property prevent two tiers of lots, the Plan Commission may approve a single
tier of lots of minimum depth. Double frontage lots, however, should be
discouraged.
   (C)   Special conditions. In blocks of over 750 feet in length, the
Commission may require, at or near the middle of the block, a public walk
connecting adjacent streets or other public areas. Such walks shall be at least
ten feet in width, at least four feet of which shall be paved, and shall be
intended for the use of pedestrians only.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.048 COMMUNITY ASSETS.
   In all subdivisions, due regard shall be shown for natural features such as
large trees, unusual rock formations, and watercourses; for sites which have
historical significance; and for similar assets which, if preserved, will add
attractiveness and value to the subdivision and to the community.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.049 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD).
   (A)   The design standards of this chapter may be modified by the Commission
in the case of a plan utilizing an unusual concept of development that meets
the requirements of this section.
   (B)   The planned unit development provision is intended to encourage
original and imaginative subdivision design that preserves the natural
amenities of the site and provides for the general welfare of the town.
      (1)   The unit plan shall be consistent with the spirit and intent of
this chapter.
      (2)   The unit plan shall conform to the “planned unit development”
requirements of the town zoning ordinance.
      (3)   The area of land to be developed shall not be less than ten acres.
      (4)   Properties adjacent to the planned unit shall not be adversely
affected.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.050 UTILITY AND DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.
   All proposed plats submitted for Commission approval under the provisions of
this chapter should allocate areas of suitable size and location, wherever
necessary, for utility and drainage easements.
   (A)   The minimum dedication width for such easements shall be ten feet into
each lot from any property line (back, side, or front).
   (B)   These easements shall be sufficient to accommodate water, electric
power, sewer, gas, telephone, and fiber-optic utilities as well as drainage.
   (C)   Underground electric lines shall be run to all lots in a subdivision
and shall be isolated from other underground utilities.
   (D)   No structures of any kind other than those related to the utilities
shall be constructed on easements.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.051 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks shall be provided in all residential subdivisions with a planned
density of two or more dwelling units per acre. Sidewalks shall be constructed
along both sides of all local streets, collectors, and arterial streets.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.052 CULVERTS.
   (A)   Culverts shall be installed wherever necessary to allow for adequate
drainage under streets, driveways, and other structures.
   (B)   Use of culverts will be required at all driveways constructed across
open drainage ditches. Driveway culverts will be sized as required for the
actual drainage flows but in no case shall be less than 12 inches in diameter.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.053 DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   General requirements. The Commission shall not recommend for approval
any subdivision plat which does not make adequate provision for storm or flood
water runoff channels or basins. The stormwater drainage system shall be
separate and independent of any sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers, where
required, shall be designed by the rational method, or other methods as
approved by the Commission, and a copy of the design computations shall be
submitted along with the plans. Inlets shall be provided so that surface water
is not carried across or around any intersection, or for a distance of more
than 600 feet in the gutter or when the encroachment of stormwater into the
street disrupts traffic. When calculations indicate that the spread of
stormwater in the street will exceed six feet, or will disrupt traffic at a
point, no further allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point, and catch
basins or inlets shall be used to intercept flow at that point.
   (B)   Nature of stormwater facilities.
      (1)   Location. The subdivider may be required by the Commission to carry
away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist, either
previously to, or as result of the subdivision. Such drainage facilities shall
be located in the street right-of way where feasible, or in perpetual,
unobstructed easements of appropriate width.
      (2)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. A culvert or other
drainage facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The Town Engineer shall approve the necessary size of the facility
as determined by the subdivider, based on the provisions of the required
construction standards and specifications assuming conditions of maximum
potential watershed development permitted by the zoning ordinance.
      (3)   Drainage design criteria. The subdivider shall use the rational
method to size all storm sewers, culverts, ditches, and other drainage
structures based on runoff from a ten-year storm event using the appropriate
intensity/duration curve for the area and a minimum time of concentration of
five minutes. The drainage calculations shall also include the effect of the
subdivision on the existing downstream drainage facilities outside the
subdivided area. Where it is determined that runoff incidental to the
development of the subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage
facility during a five-year storm, the Plan Commission shall also require
detention facilities adequate to reduce runoff from the proposed development to
the extent that the post development flow is less than or equal to the pre-
development flow. A minimum detention basin volume shall be the difference in
runoff volume discharged from the project area to the basin site between the
pre-development and post-development 100-year storm, or such volume to
sufficiently reduce post-development discharges to pre-development rates
whichever is greater.
      (4)   Floodway areas. If a subdivision of land is proposed within the
floodplain, floodways shall be preserved and not diminished in capacity by
filling or obstruction, except as approved by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources (DNR) in writing. No residential building site may be located within
the floodway.
      (5)   Floodway fringe areas. Where a subdivision is proposed within an
area of the floodplain designated as a floodway fringe, the Commission may
approve such subdivision provided that: all streets are elevated sufficiently
to be above the regulatory flood elevation; all lots for residential usage have
a flood protection grade two feet above the regulatory flood elevation; where
provided, water and sanitary sewer facilities are constructed to eliminate
contamination of or by flood water; and, approval to fill the area from the
state’s Department of Natural Resources has been obtained in writing. Lands
below the regulatory flood elevation shall not be used for computing the area
requirement for any lot.
      (6)   Floodplain areas. Where a subdivision is proposed within an area of
the floodplain for which floodway and floodway fringe designations have not
been made, the Commission shall not approve such a subdivision unless all
streets are raised sufficiently to be above the regulatory flood elevation; all
lots for residential usage have a flood protection grade of two feet above the
regulatory flood elevation; where provided, public water and sanitary sewer
facilities are constructed to eliminate contamination of or by flood water;
and, filling to achieve the above will not raise the level of the regulatory
flood elevation more than one-tenth of one foot for that reach of the stream.
All filling in the floodplain must be approved in writing by the state’s
Department of Natural Resources. Lands below the regulatory flood elevation
shall not be used for computing the area requirement for any lot. Floodplain
management regulations are contained in Chapter 154.
      (7)   Recording of plats in the floodplain and floodway fringe. All final
plats having within their boundaries areas whose elevation is below that of the
regulatory flood elevation shall show and label the regulatory flood boundary
and elevation, as of the date the final plat is recorded.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.054 DEDICATION OF DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make impractical
the inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights-of-way, perpetual
unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for such drainage facilities
shall be provided across property outside the right-of-way lines and with
satisfactory access to the street. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
Drainage easements shall be carried from the street to a natural watercourse or
to other drainage facilities.
   (B)   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation, easement land on both sides of existing watercourses.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.055 WATER SUPPLY IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Where there is town water available within 500 feet and connection is
possible, the subdivision shall be provided with a complete water distribution
system which shall adequately serve all lots, which shall include appropriately
spaced fire hydrants, and which shall be properly connected with the public
water supply system. Where a public water supply system is not accessible
within 500 feet of the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to install
alternate water supply facilities approved by the Town Engineer. Where
individual lot wells are to be installed, lot dimensions shall meet the
approval of the County Board of Health. In any case, water supply facilities
shall be installed as required by standards and specifications as approved by
the County Board of Health.
   (B)   Installation of water lines shall meet the standards of the state’s
Department of Environmental Management and the providing utility.
   (C)   Design of water supply systems shall be in accordance with the
construction standards of the town and as recommended by the American Water
Works Association Standards.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.056 SANITARY SEWER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall construct a complete sanitary sewer system which
shall adequately serve all lots and which shall be properly connected to the
public sanitary sewer system. Where a public sanitary sewer system is not
accessible within 500 feet of the subdivision, the subdivider shall install
alternate sanitary sewer facilities, which shall be approved by the Plan
Commission and the County Health Officer. In any case, sanitary sewer
facilities shall be installed in accordance with plans and specifications as
approved by the state’s Department of Environmental Management.
   (B)   No connection draining stormwater runoff, including roof drains or
basement sumps shall be made to a sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Design of sanitary sewer systems shall be in accordance with the
construction standards of the town.
   (D)   The use of lift stations in the design of the sanitary sewer system
shall be avoided wherever possible and practical. The inclusion of lift
stations shall be subject to specific approval of the Town Engineer and the
state’s Department of Environmental Management.
   (E)   Whenever a new subdivision will create flows that will exceed the
capacity of the existing sewer collection system, the developer shall be
required to make those improvements necessary in the downstream portions of the
system to ensure adequate capacity to handle the proposed flow.
   (F)   Selected design criteria.
      (1)   Locations. Sanitary sewers shall be located within street or alley
rights-of-way unless topography dictates otherwise. When located in easements
on private property, access shall be provided to all manholes. Unless
specifically approved otherwise, sanitary sewer manholes shall not be located
within drainage ditches, swales, or other defined drainage areas.
      (2)   Manholes. Manholes shall be installed at the end of each line, at
any change in direction, and at distances not greater than 450 feet on straight
sections of sanitary sewer lines. The use of cleanouts other than as required
on service laterals shall not be allowed.
      (3)   Cover. Unless specifically approved otherwise due to topography or
limitations caused by connection to existing sewers, the minimum cover on
sanitary sewers shall be six feet in streets and three feet in all other areas.
      (4)   Laterals. Service laterals shall be provided to each lot proposed
by the subdivider. Connections other than Y-connections shall be installed on
the mainline sewer for the purpose of connecting service laterals. The minimum
size of service laterals shall be six inches in diameter.
      (5)   Government approval. Any lift stations, grinder pumps, and the like
that are to be dedicated to and eventually accepted by the town for ownership
and maintenance shall come from equipment manufacturers approved by the town
and the state’s Department of Environmental Management. All other equipment
proposed to be used by the developer must be approved by the town in advance.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.057 FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Fire apparatus access roads. Fire apparatus access roads may be
required for any development project that does not provide adequate access for
fire protection from a public street.
      (1)   Prior to the start of construction of any structure, the developer
shall provide fire apparatus access roads to within 100 feet of the exterior
wall of the structure.
      (2)   Said access roads shall be extended as required in division (A)(1)
above, as new construction dictates.
   (B)   Access road construction requirements. All fire apparatus access roads
shall meet the following minimum standards. If said roads are designed for
adoption as streets by the town, the roads shall also conform to the
requirements of the town’s Street Department. In the event of a conflict
between rules as set out in this section and those standards of the town’s
Street Department, the most stringent requirements shall apply.
   (C)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   Width. The unobstructed width of a fire apparatus access road shall
not be less than 24 feet.
      (2)   Vertical clearance. Fire apparatus access roads shall have an
unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than 13 feet, six inches except
where a smaller clearance will allow the passage of the tallest piece of
apparatus used by the servicing fire department(s). Requested clearance shall
require approval by the inspecting officer.
      (3)   Modifications. Vertical clearances and/or widths required by this
section shall be increased when vertical clearances or widths are not adequate
to provide fire apparatus access for the largest fire apparatus expected to be
used by the servicing fire department(s).
      (4)   Loads. Fire apparatus access roads shall be designed and
constructed to support the imposed loads of the heaviest piece of fire
apparatus to be used by the servicing fire departments(s).
      (5)   Turning radius. Fire apparatus access roads shall be designed and
constructed to permit turning of the longest piece of fire apparatus used by
the servicing fire department(s).
      (6)   Turnarounds. All such roads, which are dead-end roads in excess of
150 feet in length, shall be designed and constructed so as to allow the
turning around of the longest piece of fire apparatus used by the servicing
fire department(s).
      (7)   Grade. The gradient of all fire apparatus access roads shall not
exceed the maximum that the fire apparatus used by the servicing fire
department(s) can accommodate.
   (D)   Fire hydrants, water supply, required flow. Prior to the start of
construction of any structure, the developer shall provide and install, in a
fully working condition, sufficient fire hydrants capable of delivering
required water flow as set out by the requirements of this section.
      (1)   Required flow. Delivered flow shall meet the requirements of
nationally recognized authorities, such as the National Fire Protection
Association and the like, as well as others recognized by the inspecting
officer. It shall be the responsibility of the developer to perform the
required testing in conformance with the recognized standards and provide the
inspecting officer with written results.
      (2)   Hydrant spacing. Spacing shall conform to the requirements of a
nationally recognized authority, such as the National Fire Protection
Association, American Waterworks Association, and the like, but shall not
exceed 800 feet.
      (3)   Connections. In addition to other provided connections, there shall
be at least two connections of a diameter of two and one-half inches providing
for connection to the main intake of fire apparatus pumps as used by the
servicing fire department(s). Threads shall be of the type used by the
servicing fire department(s).
      (4)   Installation. Installation shall conform to the requirements of
standards of nationally recognized authorities, such as the National Fire
Protection Association, American Waterworks Association, and those of the
servicing water department(s).
      (5)   Adopted standards and documents. The following standards and
references are adopted as a guide toward ensuring compliance with the
regulations:
         (a)   NFPA 1231, “Standard on Water Supplies for Suburban and Rural
Firefighting”, 1989 Edition;
         (b)   NFPA 1201, “Recommendations for Developing Fire Protection
Services for the Public”, 1989 Edition;
         (c)   NFPA 291, “Fire Flow Testing and Marking of Hydrants”, 1988
Edition;
         (d)   American Waterworks Association, Manual M-I7, “Installation,
Field Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Hydrants”, 1980 Edition;
         (e)   NFPA 1963, “Standard for Screw Threads and Gaskets for Fire Hose
Connections”, 1985 Edition;
         (f)   Insurance Services Office, “Fire Suppression Rating Schedule”;
and
         (g)   Fire Underwriters Survey, “Water Supply for Public Fire
Protection”.
      (6)   Inspection and enforcement.
         (a)   It shall be the duty of the Town Building Inspector to perform
the required inspections as necessary in order to evaluate compliance and
report said findings to the governing body enforcing these regulations.
         (b)   In the absence of a Town Building Inspector, the governing body
shall appoint a properly qualified person to perform the duties required in
division (D)(6)(a).
         (c)   The Town Building Inspector shall perform the required duties in
cooperation with the heads of other involved agencies or town departments.
         (d)   Where the jurisdiction is empowered to enforce the state’s Fire
Prevention Code, those sections of these regulations relating to fire
protection shall be adopted and incorporated as a section of the local Fire
Prevention Code, following review and approval of the state’s Department of
Fire and Building Services.
         (e)   Upon adoption and incorporation of these regulations into the
local Fire Prevention Code, the Fire Inspector shall take appropriate and
prescribed enforcement action upon determination that a violation has been
committed.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.070 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Before the final plat of any subdivided area shall be approved,
signed, and recorded, the subdivider shall construct all improvements as
required by §§
151.040 to
151.057 of this chapter and in accordance with the approved preliminary plat
and construction plans except as allowed by §
151.071.
   (B)   Improvements shall include construction of all streets, sidewalks,
utilities, and grading as required to properly develop the building lots.
Improvements shall be performed to the satisfaction of the Town Building
Inspector or the designee of the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.071 POSTING OF BONDS.
   (A)   At the discretion of the Commission, the requirements for completion
of improvements as described above may be waived provided that the subdivider
shall post a performance bond in an amount equal to 100% of the cost of any
improvements remaining to be completed. The cost of such work shall be
determined or ascertained by the Town Engineer in coordination with the
Building Inspector, and recommended to the Commission, based on a reasonable
estimate of construction costs. The bond shall be securable to the town and is
intended to provide reasonable assurance to the town of the satisfactory
construction of the uncompleted portion of the required public improvements.
Under the provisions of accepting a performance bond, the town shall require
the applicant to enter into a contract guaranteeing completion of all public
improvements within one year of posting of the bond.
   (B)   In lieu of a performance bond, the applicant may provide the town with
a certified check, in an amount equal to 100% of the estimated cost of
completion of the uncompleted portion of required public improvements.
   (C)   In the event of unforeseen circumstances, an additional time period
for development beyond the one year requirement may be negotiated.
   (D)   A performance bond furnished pursuant to this chapter shall comply
with all statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to the Town Attorney
as to form, sufficiency, and manner of execution as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.072 VARIANCES.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals may grant a variance to this chapter where, by
reason of the unusual shape of a specific piece of property, or where, by
reason of exceptional topographical conditions, the strict application of these
regulations would result in extreme practical difficulties and undue hardship
upon the owner of such property; provided, however, that such relief may be
granted without detriment to the public good and without substantially
impairing the intent and purpose of this chapter. In granting such variances or
modifications, the Plan Commission may require such conditions as will
substantially secure the objectives of the standards or requirements so varied
or modified. Financial disadvantage to the property owner is not proof of
hardship within the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.085 INSPECTION.
   (A)   When the construction plans have been approved as provided in this
chapter, the subdivider shall first notify the Town Building Inspector (or the
appropriate agent) of his or her intention to proceed with the construction and
installation of improvements. Notification shall be made at least 48 hours
before any such construction or installation shall commence so as to give the
Building Inspector (or the appropriate agent) an opportunity to inspect the
site prior to commencement of work and to inspect installation or construction
of said streets and improvements during the course of work being performed. The
subdivider will be charged an inspection fee of $50 per lot, based on the
number of lots approved in the preliminary plat.
   (B)   The Building Inspector (or the appropriate agent) shall have the right
to periodically inspect the required improvements during construction to ensure
their satisfactory completion in accordance with the approved plans.
   (C)   If the Building Inspector (or the appropriate agent) finds upon
inspection that any of the required improvements have not been constructed in
accordance with the accepted plans, construction standards, and specifications,
the subdivider shall be responsible for removal and replacement of said
improvements. Whenever the cost of improvements is covered by a performance
bond, the subdivider and the bonding company shall be severally and jointly
liable for completing the improvement according to specifications.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.086 ACCEPTANCE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   After streets and improvements have been installed and constructed
pursuant to the requirements contained in this chapter, and in the event that
the subdivider desires to have the town accept said streets or improvements,
the subdivider shall notify the Town Building Inspector (or the appropriate
agent) that the construction or installation has been completed, and shall
supply the town with a minimum of four copies of the as-built plan on which the
street or improvement in question has been constructed or installed.
   (B)   The four copies of the plan shall show thereon the signatures of all
agencies and individuals who have approved the plan and contain a notice
thereon as to where and when the plan was recorded in the office of the County
Recorder. The portion of street or improvement which the subdivider desires to
have the town accept shall be shaded or colored on each of the four copies. The
plan shall also clearly designate the number of lineal feet of said street or
improvement which the subdivider desires to be accepted by the town.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.087 FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATION FORMS.
FORMS NEEDED FOR FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATION
Form 1 CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP, CONSENT, AND DEDICATION (on plat)
   I (we) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown
and described hereon and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with
my (our) free consent, and in accordance with my (our) desire, dedicate all
streets, alleys, walks, parks, and other open spaces to public or private use
as noted.
[Date]                                          
[Signed]                                                     
                                                       
         Owner(s)
From 2 CERTIFICATE OF ACCURACY (on plat)
   I hereby certify that the plan shown and described hereon is a true and
correct survey to the accuracy required by the Town of Hanover, Indiana, Plan
Commission, and that the monuments have been placed as shown hereon, to the
specifications of the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
[Date]                                          
[Signed]                                                     
      Engineer/Surveyor
                                                       
      Registration Number
Form 3 CERTIFICATE OF THE APPROVAL OF WATER AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (on plat)
   I hereby certify that the water supply and sewage disposal utility systems
installed, or proposed for installation, in the subdivision plat entitled
                              , fully meet the requirements of the Town of
Hanover Construction Standards and are hereby approved as shown.
[Date]                                          
[Signed]                                                                
   Town of Hanover Building Inspector
Form 4 CERTIFICATE OF THE APPROVAL OF STREETS AND UTILITIES
   I hereby certify that either:
   (1)   Streets, utilities, and other improvements have been installed in an
acceptable manner and according to town specifications in the subdivision
entitled                                                        ;or
   (2)   A security bond in the amount of $                          has been
posted with the Clerk-Treasurer to assure completion of all required
improvements in case of default; or
   (3)   The need for a security bond has been waived by the Plan Commission
and that the subdivider has been made aware of the conditions affording this
waiver.
[Date]                                          
[Signed]
                                                                            
         (for (1)) Town of Hanover Building Inspector
                                                                                   
         (for (2)) Town of Hanover Clerk-Treasurer
                                                                                    
         (for (3)) President, Hanover Plan Commission
Form 5 RESOLUTION OF PLAN COMMISSION APPROVING FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT
Name of Plat/Subdivision
                                                                           
Name(s) of Owner(s)
                                                                                 
HANOVER, INDIANA PLAN COMMISSION
11 Madison Avenue, P.O. Box 288
Hanover, IN 47243
   The following is an extract from the minutes of the meeting of the Hanover,
Indiana Plan Commission
held on [date]                                ,
[ Be it resolved: ]
   1.   That roads, sidewalks, curbs, drainage systems, storm drains, catch
basins, rights-of-way, easements, open spaces, park and recreation sites, and
other improvements and installations, etc., be constructed as set forth on such
approved final plat, including the construction of all off-site improvements
and drainage systems.
   2.   That all of the aforesaid improvements and installations be constructed
in accordance with local government specifications. That in addition to the
improvements and installations set forth on the approved final plat, all
stipulations and undertakings appearing in the minutes of the Plan Commission,
together with the agreement offering irrevocable dedication of such
improvements which the owner or developer has agreed to, are incorporated in
this resolution by reference, as well as all agreements, regulations, rules,
resolutions, and orders of the local government
   3.   That said                               , as owners of the above plat
execute and file with the Clerk-Treasurer a performance bond, in the amount of
$                        , sufficient to cover the full cost of said
improvements as estimated by the Commission or other appropriate local
government officials or agencies, which performance bond shall be issued by a
Bonding or Surety Company to be approved by the Hanover Town Council and shall
also be approved by such Town Council as to form, sufficiency, and manner of
execution. Said performance bond shall run for a term of  ( ) years (not
exceeding  ( ) years), provided, however, that the term of such performance
bond may be extended by the Plan Commission with the consent of the parties
thereto as provided by law, for a period not to exceed one (1) additional year.
The bond shall also provide, among other things, that in the event that any
required improvements have not been installed and deeded to the municipality
free and clear of all encumbrances as provided by this Resolution, with the
terms of such performance bond, the Town Council may thereupon declare said
performance bond to be in default and collect the sum remaining payable there
under, and apply said sum towards obtaining free and clear title to said
improvements, including payment of all liens and encumbrances on the property
and all costs and expenses, including legal fees, incurred by the local
government in acquiring free and clear title, and install such improvements as
are covered by such performance bond commensurate with the extent of building
development that has taken plan in the subdivision but not exceeding in cost
the amount of such proceeds.
   4.   That the final plat will not be signed by the President of the Plan
Commission until the submission and approval of the required bond by the Town
Council of Hanover.
   5.   That said bond will not be released or reduced until the public
improvements are approved as built by the office of the Town Engineer and all
improvements, roads, rights-of-way, easements, open spaces, park and recreation
sites, including off-site improvements and land have been deeded to and
accepted by the local government, in accordance with the procedure for
dedication of improvements adopted by the Plan Commission and prior to any
street, or other improvement being accepted by the city as hereinafter
provided, the Subdivider shall post a Maintenance Bond and/or other security
naming the Town as Obligee in an amount deemed adequate by the town to insure
maintenance of said improvements for a period of at least thirty-six (36)
months from the date of acceptance by the town.
   6.   This Resolution expires on                              .
STATE OF INDIANA )
COUNTY OF JEFFERSON)
I,                                              , President of the Plan
Commission of Hanover, Indiana, hereby certify that I have compared the
foregoing copy of an extract from the minutes of the said Plan Commission, held
                                            , with the original now in my
possession, and find the same to be a true and correct transcript therefrom.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunder subscribed my name this        day of
                    , 20               
                                        
President, Plan Commission
Form 6 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL CHECK LIST (To be completed by Plan Commission)
Name of Subdivision
                                                                                                           
Location
                                                                            
Zoning District
                                                                                                                   
Owner:      Name
                                                                                                              
         Address
                                                                             
Phone                    
Developer (if different from owner):
         Name
                                                                                                             
         Address
                                                                              
Phone                  
Surveyor or Engineer                                     Registration Number:
                                      
Date of Preliminary Plat Approval
                                                                                        
Check List
                   Five (5) copies submitted 30 days prior to meeting.
                   Copies sent to Town Engineer and utility companies
(telephone, gas, electricity, etc.) for recommendations.
                   Copies of private deed restrictions, if any.
                   Plat (drawn to scale of not less than one (1) inch equals
100 feet), to include:
                   Tract designation according to the real estate records of
the county.
                   Vicinity sketch at a scale of not less than one (1) inch
equals 200 feet.
                   Name and location of subdivision.
                   Names of adjoining owners and/or subdivisions.
                   Date, north arrow, and graphic scale.
                   Acreage of land to be subdivided.
                   Boundary lines of tract to be subdivided.
                   Proposed lot lines and lot numbers, and all dimensions.
                   All dimensions to the nearest hundredth (100th) of a foot
and all angles to the nearest second.
                   Outline of property dedicated for public use.
                   Length of all acres, radii, points of curvature, and tangent
bearings.
                   Lot lines, street lines, and street names.
                   Building setback lines.
                   Location and description of monuments.
                   Location and description of utility and drainage easements.
                   Names and locations of adjoining properties and streets,
with names and addresses of owners.
                   Location of “100-year” flood elevations.
                   Street profiles and cross-sections.
                   Certificate of ownership, consent and dedication. (Form 1)
                   Certificate of Accuracy. (Form 2)
                   Certificate of the approval of water and sewerage systems.
(Form 3)
                   Certificate of the approval of streets and utilities. (Form
4)
                   Waiver of remonstrance for annexation included in covenants.
                   Required physical improvements complete, or bond posted in
the amount of $               .
                   Certificate of approval of the Final Plat. (Form 5)
Approved for Recording
                                                          
                  (Date)
Variances granted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Disapproved                                   for the following reasons:
         (Date)
Signed:
                                                                                                                                    
      President of Plan Commission            Secretary of Plan Commission
Form 7 SUBDIVISION CHECK LIST
To the subdivider: This form is provided by the Plan Commission for you to use
in keeping a running record of the status of your plat by checking off the
following steps as they are accomplished.
   1.   Retain a duly licensed engineer or surveyor to draw up the plat.
                                                                                                               
      Name of Engineer/Surveyor
   2.   Consult with Plan Commission — Preliminary Sketch - Free hand or
topographic map.
                                                                                                               
      Date of Meeting
   3.   Obtain the following official Town of Hanover documents:
                   3.1   Zoning Ordinance
                   3.2   Subdivision Regulations
                   3.3   Rules Governing the Preparation of Plats
                  3.4   Improvements Specifications
                  3.5   Application Form for Approval of Subdivision Plat by
the Plan Commission.
   4.   Refer to the following official Town of Hanover documents:
                   4.1   Comprehensive Plan
                   4.2   Official map(s) relative to project
   5.   Secure the following documents relating to the site:
                   5.1   Survey (including topography)
                   5.2   Tide search
   6.   Secure preliminary review of site by Town Engineer or other designated
person (suitability for residences, minimum lot sizes, water supply, drainage,
sewerage).
   7.   Prepare preliminary plat of proposed subdivision complying with all
applicable town, county, and state regulations insofar as possible, including
computations (except that profiles and street and lot sizes may be
approximate).
   8.   Obtain appointment through the Plan Commission Secretary for a review
of preliminary plat of proposed subdivision.
                                                                                                                    
Date of Meeting                     Time
   9.   Provide the following documents for preliminary review of the Plan
Commission:
                  9.1   Evidence of legal ownership of property.
                  9.2   Five (5) copies of preliminary plat with topographic
map and rough profiles of proposed streets.
                  9.3   Map showing relation to adjacent properties and to
general area.
                  9.4   List of exceptions to regulations, codes, ordinances,
and specifications desired by subdivider.
                  9.5   Deed restrictions, existing and proposed, if any.
   10.   After review of the preliminary plat, receive the following in a
formal communication from the Plan Commission:
                  10.1   Specific changes required.
                  10.2   List of requirements that the Plan Commission will
waive, with detailed reasons for each item waived.
                                                             
Date of Communication
   11.   Prepare final subdivision plat in accordance with regulations as
amended.
   12.   Submit plat to Plan Commission and Town Council for final approval,
accompanied by the following documents:
                  13.1   Formal application
                  13.2   Certificate of satisfactory completion of all required
improvements signed by the Building Inspector; or certification by the Clerk-
Treasurer of the posting of a suitable surety bond; or certification of the
waiver of the foregoing by the Plan Commission (see Form 4).
   13.   Tentative layout of entire tract if only a portion or phase is
submitted for present approval and filing.
                                                                                                                     
Date Submitted               Signature of Receiving Official
Form 8 TOWN OF HANOVER PLAN COMMISSION PUBLIC NOTICE TO INTERESTED PARTIES
Notice is hereby given that the Town of Hanover Plan Commission, on the        
day of                   , 20       , at           p.m. in the Hanover Town
Hall, 11 Madison Avenue, Hanover, Indiana, will hold a public hearing on
                                                                  SUBDIVISION.
                        (Name of Subdivision)
The proposed subdivision involves                                    Lots on
                         acres located on
                                                   in
                                          TOWNSHIP,
      (Street or Road)
SECTION                     , T                        , R
                     .
Form 9 TOWN OF HANOVER PLAN COMMISSION AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE TO INTERESTED
PARTIES FOR PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
STATE OF INDIANA      )
COUNTY OF JEFFERSON   )      SS:
                                                           
(Name of Subdivision)
I,                                        , do hereby certify that notice to
interested parties of the date, time, and place of the public hearing on the
above referenced subdivision was certified and mailed to the last known address
of each of the following persons owning property adjoining or adjacent to the
property contained in this petition:
            OWNER                     ADDRESS
and that said notices were sent by certified mail (receipts attached) on or
before the                 day of                            20            ,
being at least ten days prior to the date of the public hearing.
                                                                                    
                                    (Petitioner or Agent)
Subscribed and sworn to before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and
State, this               day of                          , 20          .
My Commission expires:                                                  (Notary
Public)
residing in                                 County
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.088 RELEASE OF REDUCTION OF PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   The Town Council shall not accept proposed dedicated improvements, nor
release nor reduce a performance bond, until it has received written
certificates of completion from the Town Building Inspector (or the appropriate
agent) stating that all required improvements have been satisfactorily
completed in accordance with construction plans for the subdivision.
   (B)   Prior to any street or other improvement being accepted by the town as
hereinafter provided, the subdivider shall post a maintenance bond and/or other
security naming the town as obligee in an amount deemed adequate by the town to
insure maintenance of said improvements for a period of at least 12 months from
the date of acceptance by the town.
   (C)   The amount of bond may be reduced by the Plan Commission at any time,
if recommended by the Town Engineer or other appropriate agent. No bond shall
be reduced below an amount necessary to insure the installation of remaining
improvements and the good repair and proper functioning of all improvements at
the time when 80% of the lots shown on the recorded plat have primary
structures built on them and appropriate measures taken to prevent erosion and
siltation. The final surface course of street pavement shall not be constructed
until 80% of the lots shown on the recorded plat have structures built on them.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.089 SITE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT FORM.
SITE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT FORM
(To be completed by a registered surveyor or engineer)
[Note: Some of the requested information may be available on soils maps.]
                                       Yes      No
   •   SITE WITHIN 100-YEAR
FLOODPLAIN                                                           
   •   SITE WITHIN HILLSIDE
AREA                                                              
   •   SITE CONTAINS AT LEAST A ONE-ACRE
      CONCENTRATION OF
TREES                                                              
   •   SITE CONTAINS EITHER CREEK, STREAM OR LAKE
                                                  
   •   SITE CURRENTLY HAS POOR
DRAINAGE                                                        
   •   SITE CURRENTLY USED FOR
AGRICULTURAL                                                     
      PURPOSES
SITE TREATMENT TECHNIQUES TO ALLEVIATE ENVIRONMENTAL LIMITATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.090 PRELIMINARY PLAT CHECK LIST.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT CHECKLIST
   (To be completed by Plan Commission)
Name of Subdivision
                                                                                                                 
Location
                                                                                                                                  
Zoning District
                                                                                                                         
Owner:      Name
                                                                                                                    
         Address                                                       Phone
                                                 
Developer (if different from owner):
         Name
                                                                                                                    
         Address                                                       Phone
                                                 
Surveyor or Engineer                             Registration Number:
                                                     
Date Submitted for Preliminary Plat Approval
                                                                             
Check List
                   Five (5) copies submitted 30 days prior to meeting.
                   Copies sent to Town Engineer and utility companies
(telephone, gas, electricity, etc.) for recommendations.
                   Copies of private deed restrictions, if any.
                   Preliminary plat (drawn to scale of not less than one (1)
inch equals 100 feet), to include:
                   Tract designation according to the real estate records of
the county.
                   Vicinity sketch at a scale of not less than one (1) inch
equals 200 feet.
                   Name and location of subdivision.
                   Names of adjoining owners and/or subdivisions.
                   Date, north arrow, and graphic scale.
                   Acreage of land to be subdivided.
                   Boundary lines of tract to be subdivided.
                   Proposed lot lines and lot numbers.
                   Minimum building setback lines showing dimensions.
                   Sites and acreages of currently existing or planned public
use areas.
                   Approximate locations of “100-year” flood elevations.
                   Location, widths, and names of all existing or platted
streets or other public ways and easements, established triangulation points or
other established survey corners or lines, and other important features such as
existing permanent buildings, large trees, water courses, railroad lines, etc.
                   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts, and other
underground structures within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto, with
pipe sizes and grades indicated.
                   Contours, normally with intervals of two (2) feet referenced
to the town datum, or as may be required by the Plan Commission.
                   The layout, proposed names, and widths of proposed streets,
alleys, and easements; the location and approximate sizes of proposed catch
basins, culverts, and other drainage structures; and the layout, numbers and
approximate dimensions of proposed lots.
                   Waiver of remonstrance for annexation included in covenants.
Approved                                   to proceed to final plat.
         (Date)
Subject to following modifications:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Variance granted:
                                                                                                                    
Disapproved                                 for the following reasons:
         (Date)
Signed:
                                                                                                                          
      President of Plan Commission         Secretary of Plan Commission
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.091 ENFORCEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Officials and procedure. The Plan Commission and/or the Town Building
Inspector shall enforce these regulations and bring to the attention of the
Town Attorney any violations or lack of compliance herewith. With the
authorization of the Town Council, the Town Attorney may, in addition to taking
whatever criminal action deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any
violation of these regulations.
   (B)   Restraining provisions.
      (1)   Any land within the participating jurisdictions subdivided in
violation of the terms of this chapter after the effective date hereof, is
hereby declared to be a common nuisance, which may be restrained, enjoined, or
abated in any appropriate action or proceeding.
      (2)   The Commission may institute an injunction suit requesting an
individual or governmental unit be directed to remove a structure erected in
violation of this chapter, or to make the same comply with its terms. If the
Commission is successful in its suit, the respondent shall bear the costs of
the action.
      (3)   The Commission may institute a suit for mandatory injunction
requesting an individual or governmental unit be directed, where such
individual or governmental unit has violated any provisions of this chapter, to
comply with the provisions of this chapter. If the Commission is successful in
its suit, the respondent shall pay the Commission’s reasonable attorney fees
and all costs related to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of these regulations
shall, upon findings of such by a court, be subject to a judgment of not more
than $2,500 per occurrence per day. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, or builder
who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may be
found responsible for a separate ordinance violation. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Plan Commission or any other public official or private
citizen from taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain or prevent
any violation of these regulations.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 6-7-2005)
CHAPTER 152: SEWER CONSTRUCTION
Section
Trench Excavation and Backfill
   
152.01   Scope
   
152.02   Materials
   
152.03   Workmanship
Gravity Sanitary Sewers
   
152.15   General provisions
   
152.16   Products
   
152.17   Execution
Sanitary Sewer Force Mains
   
152.30   General provisions
   
152.31   Products
   
152.32   Execution
Precast Concrete Structures
   
152.45   General provisions
   
152.46   Products
   
152.47   Execution
Lift Station Equipment
   
152.60   General provisions
   
152.61   Products
   
152.62   Diagrams
Cross-reference:
   Building Codes, see
Ch. 150
   Flood hazard areas, see
Ch. 154
   Town policies, see
Ch. 33
TRENCH EXCAVATION AND BACKFILL
§ 152.01 SCOPE.
   This subchapter covers the work necessary for the trench excavation and
backfill, complete, including but not limited to: clearing the right-of-way;
protection of private property during construction; disposal of cleared
materials; excavation of trench for the pipe and appurtenances; foundation
stabilization; backfilling the pipe zone; removal, replacement, and
rehabilitation of all fences, drainage ditches, waterways, culverts, concrete
curbs, and sidewalks, or other features moved or damaged during construction;
removal of all obstructions; removal of all existing pavement; locating and
protecting existing utilities; repair of damaged utilities; the maintenance of
access to public thoroughfares and to private property; the maintenance of
adequate barricades, lights, and warning signs for the protection of the
public; the public highways, county roads, streets and private drives; shoring,
cribbing, bracing, sheeting, and dewatering as may be required; hauling and
disposal of waste excavation, including temporary hauling and disposal of soil
which cannot be accommodated within the designated right-of- way; repair of
public and private property damaged during construction; final cleanup of the
construction area; restoration of the landscape in public rights-of-way
including replacement lawns, grasses, trees, shrubs, and mulches; and all
miscellaneous items of work required to complete the construction specified
hereunder.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.02 MATERIALS.
   (A)   Trench excavations. Trench excavation shall be classified as either
common excavation or rock excavation as classified below.
      COMMON EXCAVATION. Removal of all materials, which is not classified as
rock excavation.
      ROCK EXCAVATION. Removal of all materials which, by actual demonstration,
cannot be the Town Engineer’s or Superintendent’s opinion, be reasonably
excavated with a backhoe equipped with a general duty dipper and rock points,
or similar approved equipment and which is in fact, systematically drilled or
blasted. The Town Engineer or Superintendent reserves the right to waive the
demonstration of the material encountered as well defined rock. The term ROCK
EXCAVATION shall be understood to indicate a method of removal and not
geological material. In addition, ROCK EXCAVATION may include removal of a
well-defined rock by the method of systematic drilling and mechanical
splitting.
   (B)   Trench backfill. Placement of native backfill material for Class A and
C backfill shall include the working of material to achieve suitable moisture
content and compaction to the specified density. In lieu of using native
material excavated from the trench for Class A and C backfill, the contractor
at his or her option may place and compact to specified density and approved
imported backfill material. Imported material must be approved by the Town
Engineer or Superintendent prior to placement. Material shall be earth, gravel,
rock, or combinations thereof, free of humus, organic matter, vegetative
matter, frozen material, clods, sticks, and debris and containing no stones
having a dimension greater then four inches. Sand or pea gravel will not be an
approved backfill material.
      (1)   Foundation stabilization. Gravel for trench foundation
stabilization shall be clean pit-ran gravel, crushed rock or gravel, having
reasonably even gradation from coarse to fine. The maximum size shall be four
inches.
      (2)   Crushed gravel pipe base. Material for pipe base and pipe zone
shall be three- fourth inch minus crushed gravel, having reasonably even
gradation from coarse to fine.
      (3)   Gravel for trench, backfill. Gravel for trench backfill shall be
clean pit run gravel, crushed rock, or gravel having a reasonable even
gradation from coarse to fine. The maximum size shall be four inches.
      (4)   Bituminous cements. Bituminous cement for use in tacking the edges
of existing asphaltic concrete pavement shall be RC-1 asphaltic road materials
conforming to the applicable specifications of the Asphalt Institute, or shall
be an asphalt emulsion.
      (5)   Asphaltic concrete. Asphaltic concrete shall not be hot plant mix,
Class C material.
      (6)   Crushed gravel. Material shall be one and one-half inch minus or
three-fourths inch minus crushed gravel or rock, reasonably even graded from
coarse to fine.
      (7)   Controlled density fill. Controlled density fill (CDF) shall be a
mixture of cement, fly ash, aggregates, water and admixtures proportioned to
provide a non-segregating, self-consolidating, free-flowing, and excavatable
material that will result in a hardened, dense, non-settling fill. CDF is
approved as an alternative for “gravel for trench backfill” and as an
alternative to “crushed gravel” and must be used at any location on the project
at the option of the contractor for foundation stabilization material, pipe
base material, pipe zone material, trench backfill material and pavement base
material.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.03 WORKMANSHIP.
   (A)   Clearing the right-of-way. Where cleaning of the right-of-way is
necessary, it shall be completed prior to the start of trenching. Trees and
brush shall be cut as near to the surface of the ground as practicable and
piled for disposal. The contractor shall observe all federal and state laws
relating to fire permits and local regulations related to burning such
materials. Under no conditions shall excavated materials be permitted to cover
brush or trees prior to cleaning and disposal. Existing trees or tree limbs
whether on public or private property, are not to be removed without permission
from the Town Engineer or Superintendent or as designated on the plans.
   (B)   Obstructions. This item refers to obstructions which may be removed
and do not require replacement. Obstructions to the construction of the trench
such as, but not limited to, stumps, abandoned piling, abandoned concrete
structures, logs, rubbish, and debris of all types shall be removed by the
contractor at his or her own expense. The Town Engineer or Superintendent will,
if requested by the contractor, make changes in the alignment to avoid major
obstructions if such alignment changes can be made without adversely affecting
the intended function of the facility.
   (C)   Asphaltic concrete pavement removal and replacement.
      (1)   All bituminous and concrete pavements, regardless of thickness,
shall be cut prior to excavation of trenches. Width of the pavement cut shall
be at least six inches greater than the required width of the trench at ground
surface at each side. Pavement removed during excavation shall be piled
separately from the earth spoil and removed from the site and shall not be used
in backfilling the trench.
      (2)   Undercut pavement shall be cut at least six inches greater than the
trench wall.
      (3)   After the trench has been backfilled and compacted according to the
specifications, the contractor shall bring the trench to a smooth even grade at
the proper depth below the existing surface to provide the required depth of
pavement. The contractor shall cut the existing pavement to a straight line and
remove any pavement that has been damaged.
      (4)   The entire existing paved surface shall be cleaned before
resurfacing is begun.
      (5)   The contractor shall apply a prime coat of asphalt tack coat to the
edges of the existing pavement and to the cast iron manhole frames below the
grade. He or she shall then place the asphaltic concrete over the prepared
trench. The finished surface of the new pavement shall conform to the grade,
crown, and slope of the existing pavement.
      (6)   Pavement replacement within all streets shall be at least two lifts
one and one-half inch thickness each for a total asphaltic concrete thickness
of three inches but shall not be less than existing pavement thickness.
Pavement thickness greater than three inches shall be placed in layers not
greater than two and one-half.
   (D)   Blasting. Blasting of excavation shall be permitted only after
securing approval of the Town Engineer or Superintendent and only when proper
precautions are taken for the protection of persons and property. Any damage
caused by the blasting shall be repaired by the contractor at his or her own
expense. The contractor’s methods of procedure and blasting shall conform to
state laws, county laws, and municipal ordinances.
   (E)   Trench width. Minimum width of unsheeted trenches in which pipe is to
be laid shall be 18 inches greater than the inside diameter of the pipe, except
by permission of the Town Engineer or Superintendent. The maximum width of the
trench shall be limited to the pipe outside diameter exclusive of the bells
plus 24 inches. Trench width required where CDF is used, as the entire backfill
shall be as shown on the plans or as directed by the Town Engineer or
Superintendent. In all cases, trench width shall be confined to dedicated
right-of-way for public thoroughfares or within areas of which construction
easements have been obtained, unless special arrangements have been made with
the affected property owners.
   (F)   Grade. The bottom of the trench shall be carried to the lines and
grades shown on the plans or as established by the Town Engineer or
Superintendent, with proper allowance for pipe thickness and for gravel
bedding. Any part of the trench excavated below grade shall be corrected with
material of the type specified in §
152.02(B)(1), for the full width of the trench and thoroughly compacted layers
not to exceed six inches, to the established grade. Unless otherwise specified,
service laterals shall be laid at a slope of one-fourth inch per foot.
   (G)   Shoring, sheeting, and grading of trenches. Whenever necessary to
prevent caving during excavation of gravel, sandy soil, or other unstable
material, the trench shall be adequately sheeted and braced. Where sheeting and
bracing are used, trench widths shall be increased accordingly. Trench sheeting
shall remain in place until pipe has been placed, backfilled at the pipe zone,
tested for defects, and repaired, if necessary.
   (H)   Location of the excavated materials. During trench excavation, the
contractor shall locate the excavated material so it will not completely
obstruct a traveled roadway or street; and, unless otherwise approved by the
Town Engineer or Superintendent, all streets and roadways shall be kept open to
at least one-way traffic.
   (I)   Removal of water. The contractor shall provide and maintain ample
means and devices with which to promptly remove and dispose of all water,
including flow from existing sewer lines, entering the trench excavation during
the time the trench is being prepared for the pipe laying, during the laying of
the pipe, and until the backfill at the pipe zone has been completed. The
contractor shall dispose of the water and sewage in accordance with state and
local regulations.
   (J)   Foundation stabilization. When, in the opinion of the Town Engineer or
Superintendent, the material in the bottom of the trench is unsuitable for
supporting the pipe, the contractor shall excavate below the flow line as
directed by the Town Engineer or Superintendent and backfill to the required
grade with gravel of the type specified in §
152.02(B)(1).
   (K)   Trench backfill. The pipe zone shall be defined as extending from the
spring line to the pipe to a point 12 inches above the outside of the pipe and
for the full width of the trench, for all classes of backfill. In areas of rock
or other areas designated by the Town Engineer or Superintendent, the entire
pipe zone shall backfilled with three-fourths inch minus “crushed gravel”. In
all other areas, the pipe zone shall be backfilled with materials not exceeding
one and one-half inches in size selected from the specified trench backfill and
thereafter placed and hand-tamped in six-inch layers.
   (L)   Trench backfill compaction.
      (1)   After the contractor has backfilled the pipe zone of the trench as
required, he or she shall then backfill the balance of the trench, with the
type backfill specified, in one-foot layers, mechanically compacted each layer
to 95% of maximum density in roadways and 85% to 90% in all other areas.
      (2)   Any subsequent settlement of the trench or ditch during the
guarantee period shall be considered to be the result of improper compaction
and shall be corrected at no expense to the district.
   (M)   Trench backfill above pipe zone. The following types of backfill shall
be used on the project in the areas shown on the plans. The class of backfill
used for service connections will generally be the same as that used for the
sewer line, which they are connected.
      (1)   Class “A” backfill. The entire trench above the pipe zone shall be
backfilled with native excavated material and compacted in accordance with the
specifications.
      (2)   Class “B” backfill. With the exception of the last ten inches, the
trench above the pipe zone shall be backfilled with gravel or trench backfill
and compacted according to the specifications. The top ten inches of the trench
shall be backfilled and compacted in successive layers with eight inches of one
and one-half inch minus “crushed gravel”, and two inches of three-fourths inch
minus “crushed gravel”.
      (3)   Class “C” backfill. With the exception of the top 11 inches, the
trench above the pipe zone shall be backfilled with gravel for trench backfill
and compacted according to the specifications. The top 11 inches of the trench
shall be backfilled and compacted in successive layers with eight inches of one
and one-half inches minus “crushed gravel”, and two one and one-half inch
layers of asphaltic concrete.
      (4)   Class “D” backfill. With the exception of the top three inches, the
entire trench shall be backfilled with controlled density fill (CDF). Pipe base
will not be required or used. Provision approved by the Town Engineer or
Superintendent shall be made for fixing the pipe in place above the trench
bottom as specified until the CDF has become firm. The top three inches of the
trench shall be backfilled and compacted in successive layers with two, one and
one-half inch layers of aspaltic concrete.
   (N)   Excess excavated material. All excess excavated materials shall be
hauled and disposed of by the contractor. The contractor shall make his or her
own arrangements for the disposal of the excavated material and shall bear all
costs and retain any profit incidental to such disposal.
   (O)   Rock excavation. Before proceeding with rock excavation, the
contractor shall have completed the common excavation to such depths that only
rock excavation remains. At this time, the trench shall be made available to
the Town Engineer or Superintendent and measurements will be taken to determine
the amount of rock excavation remaining.
(Ord. passed - -)
GRAVITY SANITARY SEWERS
§ 152.15 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Description. Work under this subchapter includes the installation and
testing of gravity sanitary sewer pipe, fittings, and connections.
   (B)   Quality assurance.
      (1)   All similar components shall be manufactured and furnished by one
manufacturer.
      (2)   Only one type of pipe may be used for the project unless otherwise
approved by the town. The contractor shall select one type of pipe from those
listed in this specification.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.16 PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Polyvinyl chloride pipe.
      (1)   PVC pipe four inches through 15 inches in diameter.
         (a)   All PVC pipe four inches through 15 inches in diameter shall
conform to ASTM D1784, “rigid poly (vinyl chloride) and chlorinated poly (vinyl
chloride) compounds” and either:
            1.   ASTM F 794, “Poly (vinyl chloride) (PVC) ribbed gravity sewer
pipe and fittings based on controlled inside diameter”;
            2.   ASTM F 949, “Poly (vinyl chloride) (PVC) corrugated sewer pipe
with a smooth interior and fittings”;
            3.   ASTM D 3034, “Type PSM poly (vinyl chloride) (PVC) sewer pipe
and fittings”; or
            4.   ASTM F-789, “Type PS- 46 poly (vinyl chloride) (PVC) plastic
gravity flow sewer pipe and fittings”.
         (b)   PVC sewer pipe shall be SDR 35 with cell classification of
12454-B or 12454-C.
         (c)   Pipe joints shall be push-on type conforming to ASTM D3212,
“Joint for drain and sewer plastic pipes using flexible elastomeric seals”.
      (2)   Gaskets shall be factory installed and chemically bonded to the
bell end of the pipe.
      (3)   Each pipe shall be identified with the name of manufacturer,
nominal size, cell classification, ASTM designation, Uni-Bell Plastic Pipe
Association designation, the pipe stiffness designation, and the manufacturer’s
date code.
   (B)   Ductile iron pipe.
      (1)   Ductile iron pipe shall be centrifugally cast in metal or sand
lined molds and shall conform to the latest revisions of ANSI/AWWA C150/A21.50
and ANSI/AWWA C151/A21.51. Ductile iron pipe shall be Pressure Class 250
minimum. The interior surface of the ductile iron pipe and fittings shall be
polyethylene line in accordance with ANSI/ASTM D1248. The minimum lining
thickness shall be 35 mils.
      (2)   When used for underground service, ductile iron pipe shall have
polyethylene encasements around the pipe exterior conforming to the latest
revision of ANSI/AWWA C105/A21.5.
      (3)   Pipe joins and accessories shall be the type shown and shall
conform to the following requirements and standards.
         (a)   Push-on joints.
            1.   ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10.
            2.   ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11.
         (b)   Mechanical joints.
            1.   ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10.
            2.   ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11.
               a.   Bolts and nuts. ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11; tee-head bolts and
hexagonal nuts.
               b.   Gaskets. ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11.
         (c)   Flanged joints. ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.10, 250; psi working pressure
rating and drilled to ASA 125 pounds standards.
            1.   Bolts. Table 1 10.14 of ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10. ASTM A307,
Grade B with heavy hex head. ANSI B18.2.1 as per Appendix A Attached to ANSI/
AWWA C110/A21.10.
            2.   Nuts. ASTM A307, Grade B, heavy hex: ANSI B18.2.2 as per
Appendix A attached to ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10.
            3.   Gaskets. Full-face ring type, one-eighth inch thick,
vulcanized natural or synthetic rubber, free of porous areas, foreign
materials, and visible defects as per Appendix A attached to ANSI/AWWA C110/
A21.10.
      (4)   Pipe fittings shall not be short body pattern designed in
accordance with ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10. Fittings for pipe up to 12 inches in
diameter shall be pressure Class 250 and pipes 14 inches and larger shall be
pressure Class 150.
      (5)   Blind flanges, companion flanges, and flange filters shall conform
toANSIB16.1 Class 125.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.17 EXECUTION.
   (A)   General construction requirements.
      (1)   Before installing piping, the contractor shall carefully verify
location, depth, type of joint needed, and size of pipe to which connection is
proposed. Contractor shall assure that the lines can be run as contemplated
without interfering with footings, walls, other piping, fixtures, and the like.
      (2)   All lengths of pipe shall be dimensioned accurately to measurements
established at the site and shall be worked into place without springing or
forcing. Cut sections of pipe shall be reamed to remove all burrs.
      (3)   Utmost care shall be exercised in transporting and handling all
pipe, fittings, valves, and the like, in order to avoid shock and damage to
pipe coatings. Lifting shall be by hoist or skids when hand lifting is not
feasible. Droppings will not be permitted. Pipe handled on skid ways must not
be skidded or rolled against pipe already on the ground. Damaged or defective
pipe and appurtenances shall be replaced.
      (4)   The pipe shall be thoroughly cleaned before being laid and kept
clean during construction.
      (5)   The contractor shall cut all pipe and drill all holes that may be
necessary.
   (B)   Pipe laying.
      (1)   The laying of pipe on the prepared bedding material shall commence
from the lowest point, with the spigot ends pointing in the direction of flow.
All pipes shall be laid true to line and grade. They shall be carefully
centered so that when laid, they form a sewer with uniform invert.
      (2)   A pipe plug or bulkhead shall be used whenever pipe-laying
operations are not in progress as required to protect the pipe ends from
foreign material.
      (3)   Before making pipe joints, all surfaces of the joints shall be
clean and dry. Lubricants, primers, and adhesives shall be used in accordance
with the manufacturer’s recommendations. The pipe shall then be placed, fitted,
and adjoined so as to obtain a watertight joint. In the event that previously
laid pipe is disturbed, it shall be removed and re-laid.
      (4)   The contractor shall assure proper alignment and grade by proper
use as lasers, batter boards, surveying instruments or other suitable means.
   (C)   Leakage tests.
      (1)   Generally. Prior to acceptance, all gravity sewers and manholes,
including service laterals, shall be tested and pass a test for leakage. The
contractor shall furnish all labor, materials, and equipment required for
making the tests and groundwater level determinations. Testing shall not be
performed until backfilling and compaction are completed. All gravity sewers
shall pass one of the three following leakage tests as further specified by
this section.
         (a)   Low pressure air test conforming to the requirements of the
latest revision of ASTM C828 and ASTM C924 as minimum. The low pressure air
test shall be used unless the contractor approves an infiltration or
exfiltration test.
         (b)   Infiltration test with a maximum inward leakage of 100 gallons
per inch of pipe diameter per mile per day.
         (c)   Exfiltration test with a maximum outward leakage of 100 gallons
per inch of pipe diameter per mile per day. In addition, the contractor shall
notify the town at least 48 hours in advance of any leakage tests as required
to permit the town to witness such testing. The contractor shall keep
documentation of leakage tests and their results with two copies submitted to
the town upon completion and passage.
      (2)   Determination of groundwater level.
         (a)   Prior to and during all testing, the contractor shall determine
all groundwater levels by backfill groundwater gauges or manhole groundwater
gauges. In general, a sufficient number of groundwater gauges shall be
installed to determine groundwater levels in the area of sewers being tested.
         (b)   In the case of newly installed groundwater gauges or the
attachment of the temporary clear plastic tubing in the manhole groundwater
gauge, the level of groundwater shall be allowed to stabilize before
determining the groundwater level.
      (3)   Pipeline testing.
         (a)   Low pressure air test. Immediately prior to testing, the pipe
shall be cleaned. After cleaning, all pipe outlets shall be plugged. The
contractor must be aware that low pressure air testing may be dangerous. The
contractor shall review the paragraphs entitled “Safety Precautions” in ASTM
C828 and ASTM C924 before beginning pressurization of pipe. The sewer line
shall then be slowly pressurized of 4.0 psig greater than the hydrostatic
pressure head created by any groundwater over the pipe (i.e., the height of the
groundwater above the invert of pipe, in feet, multiplied by 0.43). Where such
internal pressure adjustment would result in a starting pressure greater than
9.0 psig, an infiltration test shall be performed. The method of pressurizing
shall be such that the pressure shall be maintained until the temperature of
the pipe and the air have equalized but in no case less than five minutes.
After the temperature has stabilized, the air supply shall be discontinued and
the pressure allowed to drop. When the pressure reached 3.5 psig (not including
additional air pressure required by groundwater), a stopwatch shall be used to
record the time it takes for the pressure to drop to 2.5 psig (or a one pound
pressure drop). If the recorded time is more than the minimum test time as
computed using Table 1 below, the section of pipe shall be considered to have
passed the leakage test. If the recorded time is less than the minimum test
time, the line shall be considered to have failed the test, shall be inspected
for possible leaks, and retested upon correction until such time as the line
passes the requirements.
Table 1
Low Pressure Air Test Minimum Test Time for Pressure to Drop from 3.5 to 2.5
PSIG
Nominal Pipe Diameter, Inches Minimum Test Time, Minutes per 100 Feet
Table 1
Low Pressure Air Test Minimum Test Time for Pressure to Drop from 3.5 to 2.5
PSIG
Nominal Pipe Diameter, Inches Minimum Test Time, Minutes per 100 Feet
4                             0.3
6                             0.7
8                             1.2
10                            1.5
12                            1.8
15                            2.1
18                            2.4
21                            3.0
24                            3.6
27                            4.2
30                            4.8
33                            5.4
36                            6.0
39                            6.6
42                            7.3
 
         (b)   Infiltration test.
            1.   An infiltration test shall be used only when approved by the
town or when the starting pressure for the low pressure air test would be
greater than 9.0 psig. For an infiltration test to be performed, the ground
water elevation must be at least 2.0 feet above the crown of the upstream pipe.
The test shall require cleaning of the line and then plugging the pipe opening
with a watertight plug with length equal to or greater than the pipe diameter.
            2.   A 90-degree V-notch weir shall be placed in the downstairs
manhole of the section of pipe being tested. When performing an infiltration
test with a weir, sufficient time will be allowed for the infiltration to crest
the weir and stabilize. This time shall be determined based on the size of the
sewer line, the slope of the line, and other pertinent information. In no case
shall the time be less than one hour. The contractor shall measure the head (H)
of water flowing over the weir. The measurement must be accurate and taken a
minimum distance of 18 inches or four times the height of H upstream of the
weir, whichever is greater. The measured infiltration over the weir can be
calculated as: Q = 3204 H to the power of 2.5. Where H is inches and Q is
gallons per day.
            3.   Where the infiltration allowances are very small, the
measurement by weir inaccurate, the leakage measurement shall be made by timing
the filling of a container of blown volume; The volume collected shall be
converted to a 24-hour basis for comparison with specification requirements. If
the measured infiltration is less than that allowed by Table 2 below, the pipe
section shall be considered to have passed the leakage test.
Table 2
Infiltration and Exfiltration Tests Allowable Infiltration or Exfiltration
Based on 100 Gallons per Day per Inch of Pipe Diameter per Mile of Pipe
Sewer Pipe Requirements
Nominal Pipe Diameter, Inches Allowable Infiltration Gallons Per Foot of Pipe
                              Per Hour
Table 2
Infiltration and Exfiltration Tests Allowable Infiltration or Exfiltration
Based on 100 Gallons per Day per Inch of Pipe Diameter per Mile of Pipe
Sewer Pipe Requirements
Nominal Pipe Diameter, Inches Allowable Infiltration Gallons Per Foot of Pipe
                              Per Hour
4                             0.0032
6                             0.0047
8                             0.0063
10                            0.0079
12                            0.0095
15                            0.0118
18                            0.0142
21                            0.0166
24                            0.0189
27                            0.0237
30                            0.0237
36                            0.0284
42                            0.0331
48                            0.0379
 
 
Manhole Requirements
Nominal Manhole Diameter, Inches Allowable Infiltration/Exfiltration, Gallons
                                 per Vertical Foot per Hour
48                               0.0379
60                               0.0473
72                               0.0568
 
         (c)   Exfiliration test.
            1.   An exfiltration test may only be performed in lieu of a low-
pressure air test only as approved by the town.
            2.   Before beginning the exfiltration test, the pipe shall be
cleaned. Once cleaned, the downstream pipe outlet shall be sealed at the
manhole with a watertight plug. To assure a proper seal, the plug shall be at
least equal to the diameter of the pipe being tested. (Note that if service
laterals were connected, any opening lower in elevation than the static water
level will also have to be plugged.)
            3.   The upstream manhole shall be filled with water to a static
level not lower than four feet above the top of the sewer pipe (at its highest
point) and not less than four feet higher than the existing groundwater table,
whichever is greater. In lieu of using the upstream manhole, a standpipe can be
used to develop the specific pressure head.
            4.   The water shall be allowed to stand for a period long enough
to allow water absorption into the pipe (a minimum of six hours). After the
absorption period, the pipe shall be refilled to the established level and the
test begun. After a one-hour period, the exfiltration volume shall be
calculated by either measuring the drop of water leveling the manhole or
measuring the level in the manhole or measuring the volume of water to refill
the standpipe to the original level, whichever applies. The measured
exfiltration rate shall then be calculated and compared with the allowed by
Table 2, the pipe tests, failure to meet the required limits will require
correction, repair, and retesting the line.
   (D)   Deflection testing.
      (1)   Deflection testing shall be performed by the contractor in the
presence of the town or its representative on all plastic pipes with nominal
inside diameters of six inches or greater. Deflection testing shall be
accomplished using on of the following devices: calibrated television or
photography, or a properly sized “go no go” mandrel or sewer ball. Deflections
of no more than 5% based on the base inside the diameters shown below will be
allowed:
Table 1: Allowable Deflection
Nominal Size, Inches Base Inside Diameter, Inches 5% Deflection Mandrel, Inches
Table 1: Allowable Deflection
Nominal Size, Inches Base Inside Diameter, Inches 5% Deflection Mandrel, Inches
6                    5.742*                       5.45
8                    7.665*                       7.28
10                   9.563*                       9.08
12                   11.361*                      10.79
15                   13.898*                      13.20
18                   16.976**                     16.13
21                   20.004**                     19.00
24                   33.480**                     21.36
27                   25.327**                     24.06
* From Tale 69 of Handbook of PVC Pipe, the Uni-Bell PVC Pipe Association, 1982
and/or Table XI.1 of ASTM Specification D3034.
** From Table 70 of the Handbook of PVC Pipe, the Uni-Bell PVC Pipe
Association, 1982.
 
      (2)   The deflection test shall be performed no sooner than 30 days
following installation of the pipe (including backfill). Prior to testing, the
pipeline shall be thoroughly cleaned.
      (3)   Prior to acceptance, pipes having deflections greater than 5% shall
be excavated, rebedded, and/or replaced and retested (successfully)
      (4)   The contractor shall submit deflection test reports to the town
within 30 days after the performance of each test. A separate report shall be
submitted for each manhole-to-manhole sewer section. This report shall provide
all pertinent data regarding the test including, but no limit to, the date of
the test, details of the testing device used, diameter of pie, the date
installation of the line was completed including backfill, and whether the line
passed or failed the test.
(Ord. passed - -)
SANITARY SEWER FORCE MAINS
§ 152.30 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Description. The work of this subchapter includes the supply of all
materials, labor, and equipment required for the installation and testing of
sanitary sewer force mains. Force main piping inside of structures such as lift
stations and valve pits is specified in this chapter.
   (B)   Quality assurance. All materials shall be new and unused, supplied by
a single manufacturer where possible. All pipe and fittings shall be of similar
materials as allowed by these specifications.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.31 PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe.
      (1)   Pipe. All PVC pressure pipe shall meet the requirements of AWWA
C900, DR14 (class 200) or ASTM D2241, SDR-21 (200 PSI). PVC pipe shall have a
classification of 12454B or 12454C. All PVC pressure pipe and fittings shall be
marked indicating appropriate ASTM or AWWA designation and pressure class.
      (2)   Pipe joints. All PVC pipe joints shall be bell or spigot type with
elastomeric gaskets conforming to the requirements of ASTM D3137.
   (B)   Ductile iron pipe.
      (1)   Pipe. All ductile iron pipes shall be manufactured in accordance
with ANSI/AWWA C150/A21.50 and ANSI/AWWA C151/A21.51. Pipe shall be pressure
class 350 for pipes 12 inches and smaller and pressure class 250 for pipes 14
inches and larger. All ductile pipe fittings shall be cement motor lined and
seal coated in accordance with ANSI/AWWA C104/A21.4.
      (2)   Fittings. All ductile iron pipe fittings shall be manufactured in
accordance with ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10 having a minimum pressure rating of 250
psi.
      (3)   Pipe joints. Pipe joints shall be either push on or mechanical
joint as shown on the drawings. Manufactured in accordance with the following
standards:
         (a)   Push-on joints: ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10 and ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11;
         (b)   Mechanical joint: ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10 and ANSI/AWWA C111/
A21.11;
         (c)   Bolts and nuts: ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11; tee head bolts and
hexagonal nuts; and
         (d)   Gaskets: ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11.
      (4)   Encasement. All ductile iron pipe and fittings shall be
polyethylene encased in accordance with ANSI/AWWA C105/A21.5
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.32 EXECUTION.
   (A)   Handling.
      (1)   Pipe and accessories shall be handled with care to avoid damage.
Material shall not be dropped or bumped against pipe or accessories already on
the ground or against any other object. Damaged pipe, which cannot be repaired
to the town’s satisfaction, shall be replaced at the contractor’s expense.
      (2)   The interior of all pipe and accessories shall be kept free from
dirt and other foreign matter.
   (B)   Dimensions. The pipe shall be furnished in the longest manufactured
lengths unless otherwise shown or specified. Shorter or cut lengths shall be
used only when necessary to make closure. Branches, bends, and other specials,
where so shown and required, shall be made to standard dimension unless
otherwise shown. All pipes shall be straight, true to form, of full diameter
throughout, and shall have deep and wide socket joints.
   (C)   Pipe lying.
      (1)   Deflection from a straight line or grade, as required by horizontal
or vertical requirements or offsets, shall be in accordance with the
manufacturer’s specifications.
      (2)   If the alignment requires deflections in excess of the allowable
deflection per joint, special bends or a sufficient number of shorter lengths
of pipe shall be furnished to provide angular deflections within the limit set
forth.
      (3)   All pipes shall be laid and maintained to the required lines and
grades as indicated on the plans. Fittings shall be installed at the locations
shown on the plans.
      (4)   At times when work is not in progress, open ends of pipe and
fittings shall be securely closed so that no trench water, earth, or other
substances will enter the pipe fittings.
      (5)   No pipe shall be laid in water or when the trench or weather
conditions are unsuitable for proper installation.
      (6)   When the proposed elevation of the force main conflicts with the
elevation of an existing gravity sewer, water main, gas main, or other
structure, the force main shall be depend as directed by the town to avoid said
conflict. This shall be done at no additional expense to the town or utility
owner.
      (7)   Pipe shall be laid with bell ends facing in the direction of lying.
Pipe ends shall be clear of dirt and debris before the connection is made.
      (8)   The cutting of pipe for installing valves or fittings shall be done
in a neat, workmanlike manner without damage to the pipe or lining. Flame
cutting for pipe shall not be allowed.
   (D)   Thrust restraint.
      (1)   Trust blocking or restraints shall be provided at all line
deflection greater than 22 degrees and as otherwise required to protect the
pipe joints from separation.
      (2)   Trust blocks shall be seized and dimensioned as shown in these
standards.
   (E)   Hydrostatic testing. The testing method described in this division (E)
is for water pressure testing. The test, which must be successfully performed
on all new force mains, shall be performed in accordance with the following
provisions.
      (1)   Said test shall all force main from point of beginning or the
wastewater lift station or to the point of termination. The contractor shall
make the arrangements with the town for scheduling the test after the piping
has been accepted as being ready for testing. All concrete thrust block shall
have been in place for at least ten days prior to the test. The test shall be
performed on a day mutually agreed upon and in the presence of the town.
      (2)   Water for testing must be furnished by the contractor. The
contractor shall furnish all necessary equipment, pipings, pumps, fittings,
gauges, and operating personnel to properly conduct the test.
      (3)   The system shall be subjected to a hydrostatic test pressure of 100
psi.
      (4)   The test procedure shall be as follows.
         (a)   The system shall be slowly filled with water. Air shall be
expelled from the pipe through the air relief valves. If additional air vents
are needed to assure that all air is expelled, the contractor shall temporarily
install corporation stops at the appropriate points. All air shall be expelled
from the force main prior to applying the test pressure.
         (b)   After the test pressure is applied, a visual inspection of the
force main will be made for leaks. All visual leaks shall be stopped by
repairing or replacing the damaged or defective pipe, fittings, or valves prior
to starting the official pressure test.
         (c)   After all visible leaks are stopped, the official shall be
conducted for a period of at least two hours. During the test, the specified
test pressure shall not vary more than five psi.
         (d)   Pumps shall be equipped with a receiving water receptacle, and
the water entering the pipeline to make up leakage shall be carefully measured
and recorded. Pumping equipment shall include suitably calibrated pressure
gauges. LEAKAGE is defined as a volume of water which must be added to the
pipeline to maintain a pressure within five psi to the specified test pressure.
         (e)   If the amount of makeup water entering the pipeline (during the
two-hour test while the pressure is maintained within five psi of the specific
test pressure) is less than or equal to the allowable leakage as calculated by
the following formula, the pipeline shall be accepted as having passed the
leakage test satisfactorily:
               L = SD (P)l/2
               133,200
         Formula from AWWA Standard C600 where:
            L = allowable leakage, gallons per hour;
            S = length of pipeline tested, feet;
            D = nominal diameter of pipe, inches; and
            P = average test pressure during test, pounds per square inch
gauge.
         (f)   Appropriate repairs or replacement of defective or damaged
materials regardless of the outcome of the test, however, shall stop all
visible leaks.
      (5)   Should the line fail this official test, the pressure shall be
maintained while a through search is made of all possible locations of leakage
or other cause of pressure drop. When all such conditions are corrected, the
pipeline shall be given another official test and this procedure repeated until
satisfactory results are obtained.
      (6)   All leaks developing after the line has been tested and made
evident by a showing of water on the ground surface shall be repaired to the
satisfaction of the engineer regardless of the results of the official test.
   (F)   Identification/location tape.
      (1)   Furnish and install identification/location tape over the
centerline of buried force mains.
      (2)   Identification tape for ductile iron pipe. Identification tape
shall be manufactured of invert polyethylene so as to be highly resistant to
alkalis, acids, and other destructive agents found in soil, and shall have a
minimum thickness of four-mils. Tape minimum shall be three inches and a
maximum of six inches and shall have a background color specified below,
imprinted with black letters. Imprint shall be as specified below and shall
repeat itself a minimum of once every two feet for entire length of tape.
      (3)   Identification of polyvinyl chloride pipe. Identification tape
shall be manufactured of polyethylene with a minimum thickness of four-mils and
shall have a one-mil thick metallic foil core. The tape shall be highly
resistant to alkalis, acids, and other destructive agents found in soil. Tape
width shall be a minimum of three inches and a maximum of six inches and shall
have background color specified below, imprinted with black letters. Imprints
shall be as specified below and shall repeat itself a minimum of once every two
feet for entire length of tape.
      (4)   Tape background colors and imprints shall be as follows:
         (a)   Imprint: caution - force main buried below; and
         (b)   Background color: green.
      (5)   Identification tape shall be “Terra Tape” as manufactured by Reef
Industries, Inc., Houston, TX, or approved equal.
         (a)   Identification tape shall be installed over all buried force
mains in accordance with the manufacturer’s installation instructions and as
specified herein.
         (b)   Identification tape shall be installed two feet below final
grade over centerline of pipe.
         (c)   In all PVC pipe installation, the identification/location tape
shall be looped into the manholes for connection to a locating device. The tape
shall be one continuous piece from manhole to manhole.
(Ord. passed - -)
PRECAST CONCRETE STRUCTURES
§ 152.45 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Description. The work of this subchapter includes the manufacturing
and installation of precast concrete structures including manholes, lift
station structures, valve vaults, utility vaults, and other miscellaneous
structures as detailed and specified herein.
   (B)   Delivery, storage, and handling. Precast concrete structures shall be
delivered to the site complete and in structurally sound condition. The
contractor shall take proper care in moving structures to prevent cracking,
breaking, and otherwise damaging the structures.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.46 PRODUCTS.
   (A)   General. All precast structures to be used in the project shall be
structurally sound and free of defects. Any spoiled concrete or voids shall be
properly patched or repaired using equivalent strength grout and properly cured
before placement. Structures showing excessive cracking or damage should be
rejected and replaced at the discretion of the town.
   (B)   Concrete strength. All concrete used in the manufacturing of precast
structures shall have minimum compressive strength of 4,000 psi at 28 days.
   (C)   Sewer manholes.
      (1)   All manholes for sanitary sewers shall be made watertight of size
and dimensions as shown on the plans.
      (2)   The base, riser sections, eccentric cone, and adjustment rings
shall conform to ASTM C487. The joints between the base, riser sections, and
the bottom joint of the eccentric cone shall be tongue and groove type with
continuous rubber ring gasket conforming to ASTM C443 or preformed flexible
plastic type joint sealant such as RUB’R-NECK as manufactured by T.K. Snyder
Company or equal. In addition to the gasket, the joint shall be sealed with
approved mastic.
      (3)   The top of the eccentric cone shall be joined to the adjustment
ring (if necessary) using a preformed flexible plastic gasket type joint
sealant to obtain watertight fit.
      (4)   The manhole frame cover shall be sealed to the adjustment rings or
cone section using a preformed flexible plastic gasket type joint sealant.
      (5)   A watertight, flexible connection shall be made between the manhole
and the sewer pipes using elastomeric gaskets conforming to ASTM C923. Gaskets
shall be Kor-N-Seal as manufactured by National Pollution Control Systems, Inc.
of Milford, New Hampshire, or equal to be installed in strict conformance with
the manufacturer’s instructions.
   (D)   Lift station structures and valve vaults.
      (1)   Lift station structures and valve vaults shall be made of
watertight size and dimensions shown on the plans.
      (2)   Precast structures shall meet all requirements of division (C)
above except that flat top slabs shall be used in place of eccentric cones.
      (3)   Where required by the plans, access hatch frames as specified
herein shall be integrally cast into the top slab.
      (4)   All concrete surfaces subject to concrete gasses shall be protected
by an application of coal tar epoxy suitable for the intended use. These
surfaces include all areas in lift station wet wells above the specified low
water level. Epoxy shall be 46H-413 Tneme-Tar as manufactured by Tnemec, or
equal. Apply one coat at dry mil thickness of 16-20 mils unless otherwise
recommended by manufacturer.
   (E)   Utility vaults.
      (1)   Utility vaults for underground electrical conduit runs shall
consist of two piece square or rectangular precast sections meting the
requirements of ASTM C857.
      (2)   The vaults shall be made watertight by including a continuous
rubber gasket conforming to ASTM C443 along the section joint.
      (3)   Conduit knockouts shall be located as required for the actual
installation. Only those knockouts specifically used shall be removed.
   (F)   Frames and covers.
      (1)   Frames and covers shall be included for all manholes, utility
vaults, and where otherwise shown on plans.
      (2)   Ferrous casting shall be manufactured by Neenah Foundry Company,
East Jordan Foundry, or equal, and shall conform to ASTM A48 class 30. The
covers and frames shall be of a design, type, and weight specified in the
plans.
      (3)   Casting shall be of uniform quality, free from blowholes, porosity,
hard spots, shrinkage defects, cracks, or other injurious defects. They shall
be smooth and clean by shot blasting or other approved methods. Unless
otherwise specified, they shall be coated with high-grade bituminous asphalt
paint conforming to federal specifications MIL-C-450B.
   (G)   Manhole steps.
      (1)   Steps shall be applied for all manholes, valve vaults, and utility
vaults, and where specifically detailed on the plans. Steps shall be cast in
the precast sections.
      (2)   Steps shall be made of copolymer polypropylene plastic and
reinforced with half inch grade 60 steel. Steps shall be able to resist a
1,500-pound pullout force.
      (3)   Steps must comply with all applicable provisions of OSHA
regulations.
      (4)   Manhole steps shall be model PSI-PF as manufactured by M.A.
Industries, Inc. of Peachtree, Georgia or equal.
   (H)   Access hatch.
      (1)   Where shown and required by the plans, access hatches shall be
provided for precast structures. Hatches shall be either single or double door
with frame assembly fabricated of aluminum and capable of withstanding a live
load of 300-lbs/sq. ft. The doors shall be equipped with heavy forged brass
hinges, stainless steel pins, spring operators, and an automatic hold open bar
with release handle, which holds the door open at 90 degrees. Each door shall
be provided with a lifting handle.
      (2)   The access frames shall be sized as shown on the drawings. Where
noted, sizing may be contingent upon recommendations by equipment suppliers as
required to provide equipment removal.
      (3)   Access frames shall be accurately placed as an integral part of the
precast top slab section.
      (4)   Access frames shall be protected from direct contact with the
concrete by means of a protective coating.
      (5)   Access frames shall be type “J” or “JD” as manufactured by the
Bilco Company, New Haven Connecticut, or equal.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.47 EXECUTION.
   Installation requirements include the following.
   (A)   Precast concrete structures shall be located as shown on the drawings.
   (B)   Excavation and backfill for precast structures shall be in accordance
with this chapter.
   (C)   Unless otherwise shown, the top of manholes and other structures shall
be set at ground level or top of pavement.
(Ord. passed - -)
LIFT STATION EQUIPMENT
§ 152.60 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Description.
      (1)   Furnish and install all equipment for the lift station(s) including
all structures, pumps, piping, and controls as shown on the drawings as
described herein.
      (2)   The contractor shall be required to supply the pumps and control
panel from a single manufacturer.
   (B)   Performance requirements.
      (1)   Lift station pumps shall be capable of passing a three-inch sphere.
      (2)   Pumps shall meet the design conditions and motor conditions
specified on the plans.
   (C)   Submittals. The contractor shall be required to submit two copies each
of the manufacturer’s operation and maintenance manuals and dimensional and
technical shop drawing data to the town for all equipment supplied under this
section.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.61 PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Acceptable manufacturers. Pumps shall be manufactured by Flygt
Corporation of Norwalk, Connecticut; Hydromatic Pumps, Inc. of Ashland, Ohio;
Barnes Pumps, Inc. of Piqua, Ohio, or equal.
   (B)   Materials for submersible non clog pumps.
      (1)   Each pump shall be of the sealed submersible non-clog type capable
of handling raw sanitary sewage. Pump casings, volute discharge pipe and
flange, and sliding bracket shall be of gray iron. The impeller shall be gray
iron of the non-clog design.
      (2)   Shaft seals shall be of suitable material capable of operating to a
submerged pressure of 20 psi. The seal system shall not rely upon the pumped
media for lubrication but instead shall have its own lubrication liquid
chamber. No seal damage shall result from operating the pump out of its liquid
environment. The seal system shall include a seal probe to detect the presence
of water leakage. The probe signal shall be transmitted via the control cable
to the alarm circuitry in the control panel.
      (3)   The motor casing shall be watertight, filled with air, or
dielectric oil. All motors shall be supplied with heat sensing elements
attached to the windings. The element shall trip the motor starter upon
overheating. The element temperature setting shall be low enough to prevent
damage to the pump but high enough to prevent unnecessary tripping. The sensor
shall automatically reset when the motor cools to a safe temperature. The pump
power cable shall enter the motor through a cord cap assembly, double sealed to
protect the motor from moisture.
      (4)   A pump mounting base shall be provided and installed for each unit.
The base shall include guide rails with supports as required, a base elbow and
quick disconnect flanges for easy removal and proper pump alignment. Guide
rails shall be made of stainless steal, sized to meet the pump loads. Each pump
unit shall be supplied with a stainless steal lifting chain with hook which
shall be fastened to the access hatch assembly.
   (C)   Lift station control panel.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   The pump manufacturer shall furnish an automatic pump station
controller for operation on a 120/240-volt single phase or a 460-volt, three
phase-three wires, and 60-hertz power source.
         (b)   The pump station controller shall be suitable for operation and
automatic alternation of a duplex pump system and shall be complete with motor
control, solid stale alternator, convenience power supply, miscellaneous
controls, and the like. All components shall be UL listed.
         (c)   Controls for each two pumps shall be rated for the actual
horsepower from the manufacturer’s information.
         (d)   The control power wirings for the pumps and level sensors shall
be arranged to extend through two separate conduits to the wet well. Conduits
shall be properly sealed to protect the panel from explosive type gasses, which
may exist in the wet well.
      (2)   Panel enclosure.
         (a)   The enclosure shall be NEMA 4X with drip shield, 14-gauge
stainless steel (minimum), welded construction. The enclosure shall have an
outer weather door, a hinged “operator’s door” and mounting hardware.
         (b)   All equipment controls, and the like, shall be located inside
the enclosure. Selector switches, pilot lights, and the like shall be located
on the deadfront swingout panel (operator’s door) located behind an outside
weather door. All other equipment, exposed wiring, and the like shall be
located behind the swingout panel.
      (3)   Control features.
         (a)   Operating sequence.
            1.   When the pump is called for by the water level in the wet
well, the control unit shall send a start signal to the appropriate pump and
verify operation with the starter auxiliary contact. Appropriate verification
time delays shall be included.
            2.   When the wet well level continues to raise, the second pump
shall start.
            3.   When the wet well level reaches low level, the pump(s) shall
stop and pump alternation shall occur.
            4.   When a pump run verification signal is not received within the
appropriate time period, the alternator shall deselect the failed pump, select
the next pump, remove the failed pump from the sequence, and illuminate the
failed pump light. The failed pump shall remain out of service and the failed
pump light shall remain illuminated until manually reset.
         (b)   Terminal blocks for incoming power, pump power conductors, level
sensors, leak detectors, motor thermal sensors, and control wiring.
         (c)   Circuit breakers with over-current protection for each of two
pumps and the convince power transformer. Circuit breakers shall be magnetic-
hydraulic or thermal magnetic, ambient temperature compensated type, calibrated
and factory sealed with the proper trip settings. The devices shall have a
minimum interrupting rating of 10,000 RMS symmetrical.
         (d)   Magnetic full voltage starters for each of two pumps. The
starter overload relays (one per phase) shall be ambient compensated, quick
trip type. Overload elements shall be matched to the motor characteristics.
         (e)   Convenience and control power transformer with 460 volt primary
and 120/240 volt secondary rated at 2WK (where required due to the three phase
service).
         (f)   Convenience power distribution panel (30A, 1201240V, 1PH-3W)
with main breaker and 20A, IP branches. Circuit breakers operators shall be
accessible without opening the deadfront “operator’s door”. Branch breakers
shall be supplied as follows: one for control; one for GFI receptacle; and one
for condensate heater.
         (g)   GFI type duplex convenience receptacle (120V, 20A) mounted on
the dead front operators door.
         (h)   A low volt power supply and interface suitable for operation of
the float switches in an intrinsically (explosion proof) safe mode.
         (i)   An adjustable thermostatically controlled heater to provide
condensate protection inside the enclosure.
         (j)   Two pump automatic electronic alternator, which will alternate
the pumps with each pump down cycle.
         (k)   The pump controller shall provide relay outputs to interface
with the motor control devices as required.
         (l)   Running time meters for each pump. The meter shall indicate the
number of hours of pump operation. The meter shall be enclosed in a dust and
moisture proof molded plastic case. The flush mounted dial shall register in
hours and tenths of hours up to 999.9 hours before repeating.
         (m)   The control panel shall provide the following status/alarm
indications for each pump:
            1.   Pump running light (green);
            2.   Pump failed light (red);
            3.   Seal failure; and
            4.   High wet well level.
         (n)   In addition, the panel shall have a hand-off-auto selector
switch for each pump to control mode of pump operation and timing modules as
required for the pump failed feature.
         (o)   The local alarm system shall consist of an alarm light and shall
signal any of the above alarm conditions.
         (p)   The alarm light shall be a weatherproof high intensity strobe
fixture with a red lexan globe guard mounted on top of the enclosure.
      (4)   Level sensors.
         (a)   The level sensors shall consist of weighted floats with mercury
contacts rated for low volt operation at milliwatt levels. Each level sensor
shall be furnished complete with sufficient cable length to run to the terminal
box below the pump station controller and leave slack for future level
adjustment.
         (b)   Floats shall meet the requirements for Class 1, Division 1,
Group C&D, and be intrinsically safe for installation in an explosion hazard
environment.
         (c)   Floats shall operate at a maximum of 24 volts.
         (d)   Furnish a stainless steal bracket mounted in the hatch opening
for hanging the sensor cables.
   (D)   Lift station piping.
      (1)   Interior lift station and valve pit piping shall be flanged ductile
iron, centrifugally cast conforming to the latest revisions of ANSI/AWWA C150/
A21.50 and ANSI/AWWA C151/A21.51. The interior surface of the pipe cement lined
and seal coated in accordance with ANSI/AWWA C104/A21.4. Pipe shall be pressure
class 250 minimum.
      (2)   Flanges shall be of 250 psi working pressured, drilled at ASA 125
pounds standards and meeting the requirements of ANSI/AWWA C111/21.10.
   (E)   Valves.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   All valves shall be furnished with an exterior finish coating
the same as the adjacent piping system to which they are connected or as
approved by the engineer.
         (b)   All valves of the same type shall be of the same manufacturer.
         (c)   Where required for satisfactory operation of valves, provide
extension stems, stem guides, cast iron valve and curb boxes, floor boxes, and
other valve appurtenances. Extension stems shall be complete with guide
bearings, wrench nut, and tee handle wrench. All valve stems and machinery
stuffing boxes shall be packed material as selected for the intended service.
All valves shall be designed for repacking.
         (d)   Tee wrench operators shall be provided as required for proper
operation.
      (2)   Plug valves.
         (a)   Plug valves shall be the non-lubricated, resilient seated,
eccentric type.
         (b)   All plug valves shall be the size indicated on the drawings. All
plugs shall be of the drip-tight-closing, resilient faced plug type, and shall
be of the eccentric seating construction such as the operating unit of the
closing member (plug) results in the closing member rising off the body seat
contact. Port areas shall be equal to at least 80% of the nominal pipe size
area.
         (c)   Valve bodies, bonnets, and plugs shall be constructed of cast
iron meeting the requirements of ASTM A126 Class B.
         (d)   Valves shall be rated 175 psi up to 12 inches and 150 psi for
valves 14 inches and larger. An adjustable close position stop shall be
provided for field adjustment. The seat end and standard low direction shall be
cast on the valve body.
         (e)   All shaft seals shall be replaceable without disassembling the
valve and while the valve is under system operating pressure.
         (f)   The plug shall be of a one-piece design with a precision molded
resilient facing. The resilient seating surface shall not be in the flow way
pattern when the valve is in the open position. The body-seating surface shall
be welded nickel overlay containing a minimum of 90% nickel.
         (g)   Radial journal bearings shall be stainless steal, of the
permanently lubricated type. Two thrust bearing shall be provided in the upper
journal area, one of stainless steal and one of Teflon. The lower journal shall
have one stainless steal thrust bearing of the non-adjustable type. Grit seals
shall be furnished in the upper and lower journals to prevent abrasive media
from entering the bearing and seal areas.
         (h)   Unless otherwise noted or shown, all valves and connections
shall be ANSI Class 125 flanges.
         (i)   Valves shall be series 5000 as manufactured by Val-Matic Valve &
Mfg. Corp., Series 100 as manufactured by Dezurik, or equal.
      (3)   Rubber flapper swing check valves.
         (a)   Swing check valves shall have a cast iron body and cover meeting
the requirements of ASTM A126, Class B. The valve body shall have full flow
equal to the nominal pipe diameter at any point through the valve. Valve shall
be designed for a 175 psi minimum working pressure.
         (b)   The valve-seating surface shall be on a 45-degree angle to
minimize disc travel. The disc shall be of one-piece construction, precision
molded with an integral o-ring type-sealing surface. The disc shall be made of
Buna-N and have a non-slamming characteristic by means of a 35 degree disc
stroke and disc return action.
         (c)   The top access port shall be full size, allowing removal of the
disc without removing the valve from the pipeline.
         (d)   The check valve shall have backflow capabilities by means of a
screw type backflow actuator.
         (e)   The interior of the valve shall be coated with epoxy suitable
for portable water.
         (f)   Unless otherwise shown or noted, the check valve end section
shall be ANSI Class 125 flanges.
         (g)   Rubber flapper swing check valves shall be as manufactured by
Val-Matic Valve and Manufacturing Corp. or equal.
      (4)   Mud valves. Valves shall be of spigot end, non-rising steam design
having a cast iron body. The stem, stem nut, seat ring, and disc ring shall be
made of bronze. All bolts and nuts shall be of corrosion-resistant steal.
Valves shall be furnished complete with extension steam having a two- inch
square as required for the application. Each valve is to be furnished with a
tee handle wrench of length as required by drawings. Mud valves shall be Model
F-3080 as manufactured by Clow or equal.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.62 DIAGRAMS.
   The diagrams attached to the ordinance codified herein, copies of which are
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, are adopted and incorporated as
part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: STORMWATER MASTER PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Organization, administration, and management
   
153.02   Coordination with other programs and plans
   
153.03   Land
   
153.04   Record management
   
153.05   Inspection
   
153.06   Enforcement
   
153.07   Customer/public response
   
153.08   Public information and involvement
   
153.09   General financial
   
153.10   Funding options
   
153.11   Planning and design
   
153.12   Construction of public and private facilities
   
153.13   Water quality
   
153.14   Operations and maintenance
§ 153.01 ORGANIZATION, ADMINISTRATION, AND MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council shall seek to work with the county and the state to
establish common goals and objectives for stormwater management.
   (B)   The program shall be long-term, comprehensive, and cohesive.
   (C)   The Town Council may establish and maintain a budget for coordinating,
planning, building, operating, repairing, extending, and improving flood
control and stormwater facilities, systems, and services.
   (D)   As necessary, the Town Council shall enact and enforce rules and
regulations addressing:
      (1)   Prescription of the design criteria or service level for stormwater
facilities, systems, and services;
      (2)   Establishment and collection of fees including plan review and
inspection fees (such fees shall only be sufficient to cover the cost of review
and inspection);
      (3)   Setting of service charge rates, timing of service charge bills,
and procedures for collection; and
      (4)   Protection of the drainage facilities, improvements, and properties
controlled by the Town Council, and prescription for their appropriate use,
i.e., grass clippings and leaves.
   (E)   The Superintendent of Utilities shall periodically issue reports to
the Town Council regarding the status of flood control and stormwater drainage
services, and shall address in a timely manner drainage issues in the service
area.
   (F)   The Superintendent of Utilities shall periodically review policy for
adequacy and completeness, and shall make recommendations to the Town Council
for modifications and/or revisions to the existing policy when necessary.
   (G)   The Superintendent of Utilities shall develop and continue an ongoing
program of drainage and flood control related in-service training for the
staff. Topics shall be varied in nature and shall continue to expand the
knowledge and understanding of the staff involved in any aspect of stormwater
management.
   (H)   The Town Council shall designate personnel responsible for
coordination and implementation of state and federal program requirements.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.02 COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROGRAMS AND PLANS.
   (A)   Cooperation of agencies, jurisdictions, and other entities (including
the land development industry), which impact or are impacted by the Stormwater
Program, shall be sought to coordinate the requirements of external programs,
new development, and public work facilities with the basin-wide plans.
   (B)   The responsibilities of the Town Council do not include those systems,
facilities, and services which fall outside the town. Systems facilities (e.g.,
roadway bridges) and services which are the specific responsibility of the
state’s Department of Transportation are also not included. However, the Town
Council shall seek to establish cooperative agreements with other agencies or
jurisdictions to ensure compatible stormwater efforts within the area of
facilities draining to or through the town service area.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.03 LAND.
   Drainage utility easements shall be designed to:
   (A)   Provide access for maintenance and repair of drainage facilities;
   (B)   Place, to the extent possible, drainage utility facilities in common
easements; and
   (C)   Minimize negative visual impacts.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.04 RECORD MANAGEMENT.
   The Town Council shall develop an ordered approach for management,
organization, and maintenance of its storm drainage and flood protection
facilities.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.05 INSPECTION.
   The Superintendent of Utilities shall inspect the construction of all new
drainage facilities or modifications to existing drainage facilities as
necessary to ensure quality control.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of regulation shall be obtained from agencies with regulatory
authority over stormwater drainage (e.g., town’s Planning Commission). Wherever
appropriate, the Town Council shall work with such agencies to ensure
regulatory requirements are met.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.07 CUSTOMER/PUBLIC RESPONSE.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Utilities shall operate and maintain a complaint
response system in order to assure effective and timely response to all
stormwater drainage complaints and shall regularly issue reports to the Town
Council as to the number and type of drainage complaints received and the
nature to the responses.
   (B)   Requests for drainage service shall be screened to determine:
      (1)   Whether the Superintendent of Utilities is authorized to undertake
the maintenance;
      (2)   The timing for planned improvements in the area which may alleviate
the specific problem; and
      (3)   Whether the area has a concentration of similar complaints which
may be collectively addressed through a neighborhood meeting to describe a
correction action plan.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.08 PUBLIC INFORMATION AND INVOLVEMENT.
   (A)   Drainage planning shall involve concerned public citizens.
   (B)   The Town Council shall continue to inform the public through
informational bulletins, the media, workshops, and educational curricula. It
shall also promote this goal through the dissemination of bulletins and
information material from other related agencies.
   (C)   The Town Council shall explore opportunities for public involvement in
the maintenance of the drainage system, including such areas as litter removal
from streams and cost-sharing programs for neighborhood system improvements.
   (D)   The Town Council shall initiate a complaint response outreach program
which provides information regarding chronic problem areas to affected
residents. Such information shall address the history of the problem, the
corrective actions undertaken by the Superintendent of Utilities, and the
timing of the corrective actions.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.09 GENERAL FINANCIAL.
   All monies collected through drainage service charges and drainage fees
authorized herein shall be separately identified and accounted for in the town
financial records, and all expenses related to stormwater drainage and flood
control shall be separately identified and accounted for by the Superintendent
of Utilities and the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.10 FUNDING OPTIONS.
   (A)   Funding for the town stormwater activities may include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Storm drainage service charge;
      (2)   Permit review and inspection fees. Such fees shall only be
sufficient to cover the cost of review and inspection; and
      (3)   Other income (obtained from federal, state, local, and private
grants or revolving funds).
   (B)   The Town Council may wish to borrow money and issue negotiable revenue
bonds to acquire, construct, maintain, supplement, and improve stormwater
facilities. Such borrowing may also be used to perform related necessary
functions.
   (C)   The Town Council may wish to establish fees for the review of plans or
designs of drainage facilities, and for the inspection of the construction of
drainage facilities. They may also wish to establish policies for the sharing
of the costs of developing regional drainage systems serving multiple
development/properties. Any permit review and/or inspection fees shall cover
the cost of the service rendered and shall not be used to generate revenues for
other activities.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.11 PLANNING AND DESIGN.
   (A)   The technical criteria and capital improvement portions of the
Stormwater Master Plan (SWMP) shall promote sound development policies which
respect, preserve, and (where possible) enhance the watercourses of the town.
   (B)   Development shall provide levels of service that are required by the
town’s Zoning Code.
   (C)   Foundation and/or roof drains conveying other then sanitary wastes
which drain by any means may discharge into any storm sewer or onto a concrete
splash block upon the surface of the ground.
   (D)   Stormwater shall not be admitted to sanitary sewers designed and
intended to be used exclusively as carriers of domestic sewage and suitable
industrial waste.
   (E)   The Town Council shall, in cooperation with the town’s Planning
Commission, establish and publish criteria for drainage planning and design.
Technical criteria for construction, operation, and maintenance of drainage
systems shall also be developed relative to all public and private drainage
facilities and requirements. Such criteria shall be reviewed and revised
periodically to reflect acquisition of new knowledge, changes in circumstances,
and adjustments in overall comprehensive goals and objectives.
   (F)   Future Stormwater Master Plan updates shall promote a full range of
preventive and corrective approaches, including the following:
      (1)   Preservation of the integrity of existing drainage patterns;
      (2)   Prioritization of improvements to the existing drainage system;
      (3)   Recommendations for system maintenance; and
      (4)   Identification of land acquisition for easements or rights-of-way
for facilities requirements along major drainage routes; land acquisition may
include purchase, dedication, development rights, and easements.
   (G)   The Town Council shall establish an ongoing program for capital
improvements to the storm drainage system.
   (H)   A comprehensive inventory of stormwater and flood control systems,
pocket ponding locations, sinkholes, flooding areas, developed areas lacking
storm sewer systems, and storm system easements shall be prepared and
maintained as a database for future capital projects and problem correction
activities.
   (I)   Multiple use of drainage facilities is encouraged, provided the use
does not adversely impact the function design of the system.
   (J)   Design of facilities shall incorporate the following considerations:
      (1)   Mosquito control;
      (2)   Disruption of emergency services;
      (3)   High groundwater conditions;
      (4)   Possible impacts to sanitary system;
      (5)   System security;
      (6)   Safety; and
      (7)   Access for facilities maintenance.
   (K)   Stormwater facilities which require storage of water shall be designed
in a manner which does not promote conditions conducive to mosquitoes, rats,
pests, or other conditions potentially harmful to public health.
   (L)   Treatment methods proposed for control of mosquito breeding associated
with any portion of the stormwater system shall be reviewed with the approval
of the local and/or state public health officials.
   (M)   Storm sewers serving houses and buildings shall be in accordance with
local and/or state plumbing codes.
   (N)   Setbacks for septic tank systems shall be as required by state
statutes and regulations.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.12 CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE FACILITIES.
   (A)   All construction projects shall have and implement erosion/
sedimentation control plans.
   (B)   All construction within a floodplain shall be reviewed and permitted
by the Town Building Inspector.
   (C)   The following practices shall be incorporated into construction of any
facilities:
      (1)   Discharges should not restrict or impede the movement of aquatic
species indigenous to the waters or the passage of normal or expected flows or
cause the relocation of waters (unless the primary purpose of the fill is to
impound waters);
      (2)   Minimize the adverse impacts on the aquatic system associated with
the discharge of impounded waters;
      (3)   Avoid discharges into wetlands or breeding and nesting areas; and
      (4)   Place heavy equipment working in wetlands on mats.
   (D)   A conditional use permit shall be obtained for all excavation and
filling operations. Such permit shall require approval from the Town Council
and the town’s Planning Commission, with review and comment by the Soil
Conservation Service. In addition, filling operations shall conform with the
criteria of local and/or state public health agencies and the state’s
Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.13 WATER QUALITY.
   The following materials shall not be discharged or allowed to run, leak, or
escape into any public storm sewer, or any appurtenance or waterway connected
with any public sewer, except with the full knowledge and written consent of
permit-issuing agencies:
   (A)   Greases, oil, and oil sludge from garages, repair shops, machine
shops, industrial, and other establishments;
   (B)   Paints and waste products from paint manufactures;
   (C)   Any petroleum product or other product which by reason of its nature
of quality may cause a fire or explosion, or in any way be injurious to persons
or detrimental to the system; and/or
   (D)   Any unshredded garbage, scraps, or vegetables.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
§ 153.14 OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   A detailed program strategy for operational and maintenance elements
of the program shall be developed; the program shall be reviewed and updated
periodically.
   (B)   The property owner or subdivider shall be responsible for the
maintenance of all drainage facilities including inlets, pipes, culverts,
channels, ditches, and retention basins located on their land unless modified
or dedicated and accepted for public use and responsibility by the subdivider’s
agreement. Should the owner fail to adequately maintain said facilities, the
Superintendent of Utilities shall have the right to enter said land for the
purpose of operations and maintenance. The town shall be reimbursed for all
such maintenance costs.
   (C)   The maintenance program shall, wherever possible, be preventive and
proactive in nature. As such, clear standards or maintenance service levels
shall be established based on research, staff experience, and established
system priorities.
   (D)   Common areas associated with new developments, which are also used for
drainage facilities, must have clear maintenance plans which include a
delineation of the method for collecting maintenance costs.
   (E)   Drainage easements shall be provided for installation, maintenance,
and repair of drainage facilities.
   (F)   The Town Council shall monitor the design, operation, maintenance,
inspection, construction, and use of all storm sewers, storm drains, and storm
facilities planned outside of the service area which may affect this area.
   (G)   The Superintendent of Utilities shall have a prioritized plan to
inspect, maintain, repair, remove, construct, and operate the drainage
facilities on all town streets, boulevards, alleys, viaducts, sidewalks, curbs,
street crossing, grade separation, and other public ways and easements and all
drains, ditches, culverts, canals, streams, levees, tunnels, and appurtenances
thereof within the service area unless otherwise indicated by the Town Council.
   (H)   Every retention/detention basin shall be legally defined in either a
deed or on a record plat and the entity responsible for maintenance specified.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 8-2-1995)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Statutory authorization
   
154.002   Findings of fact
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Objectives
   
154.005   Definitions
   
154.006   Application
   
154.007   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
154.008   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
154.009   Compliance
   
154.010   Conflict of law
   
154.011   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
154.012   Interpretation
   
154.013   Disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
154.025   Designation of Administrator
   
154.026   Permit procedures
   
154.027   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.040   General standards
   
154.041   Specific standards
   
154.042   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
154.043   Critical facility
   
154.044   Standards for identified floodways
   
154.045   Standards for identified fringe
   
154.046   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation or
floodways/fringes
   
154.047   Standards for flood-prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
154.060   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
154.061   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
154.062   Variance procedures
   
154.063   Conditions for variances
   
154.064   Variance notification
   
154.065   Historic structure
   
154.066   Special conditions
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has, in I.C. 36-7-4, granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.003 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.004 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES, flood
waters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR, and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
of 400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use, or store hazardous materials
or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-PROOFING (DRY FLOOD-PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the flood-proofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD).
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD).
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. The exceptional hardship that would result from a failure to grant
the requested variance. The Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance
is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic
or financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic
considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of
one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP.
All of these problems can be resolved through other means without granting a
variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property
owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally
intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the state’s Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; or
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures; and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. A vertical control used as
a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88) AS ADOPTED IN 1993. A
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the letter A is
subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as quarters for
recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any location is
as defined in §
154.007. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL
CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., as amended, which states that no new flood insurance
coverage shall be provided for any property that the Administrator finds has
been declared by a duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other
authorized public body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations,
or ordinances that intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land
development or occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the town are
generally identified as such on the Jefferson County, Indiana and Incorporated
Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated April 2, 2015, as well as any future
updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A,
AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.006 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.007 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Jefferson
County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood Insurance
Rate Map dated April 2, 2015, as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an “A Zone” on
the Jefferson County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated April 2, 2015, as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the state’s
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with
the best available data, the party needs to replace existing data with better
data that meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this data must
be submitted to the state’s Department of Natural Resources for review and
subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.008 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.009 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the
SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.010 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.011 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.012 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.013 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the town, the state’s Department of Natural Resources,
or the state, for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.025 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Council hereby appoints the Zoning Administrator to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.026 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any nonresidential
structure will be flood-proofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See §
154.027(B)(6) for additional information.)
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure
or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant’s risk.
         (b)   Upon establishment of the flood-proofed elevation of a flood-
proofed structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a flood-proofing certificate. Certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered professional
engineer and certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
flood-proofing certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the flood-proofing certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an
elevation certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is
required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project
includes a flood-proofing measure, flood-proofing certification is required to
be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.027 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
154.044 and
154.046(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and flood-proofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
154.026;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed in accordance with §
154.026;
      (13)   (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or
approval, issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has
been any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the
application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.040 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.041 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Building protection. In addition to the requirements of §
154.040, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Nonresidential structures. New construction or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure (or manufactured
home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be flood-proofed to
or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below. Structures located in all “A Zones” may be flood-proofed in lieu of
being elevated if done in accordance with the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
154.027(B)(12).
      (2)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG. Elevated
structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to preclude finished
living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls. Designs must
meet the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above the
exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in
both directions;
      (4)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
      (5)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms; and
      (6)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an elevation
at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a
flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry flood-proofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of flood waters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or flood-proofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as
required for elevated structures in division (B) above.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.042 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.043 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Flood-proofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into flood waters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.044 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
154.007, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the state’s Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving, and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/ improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
154.040 to 154.047 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be
less restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood
elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway
condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.045 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
154.040 to
154.047 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.046 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the state’s Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
154.040 to
154.047 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
154.040 to
154.047 have been met.
   (C)   Limit on effect of development. The total cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, shall not increase the regulatory flood more than fourteen-
hundredths of one foot and shall not increase flood damages or potential flood
damages.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.047 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood-prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
154.040 to
154.047.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 154.060 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.061 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such
decision to the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.062 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
Floodplain Management Program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the flood waters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.063 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; or
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
154.044 or
154.046(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
1
154.044 or
154.046(A) will require a permit from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
154.041 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the state’s Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (see §
154.064).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the state’s Department of Natural Resources upon request (see §
154.064).
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.064 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.065 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.066 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
154.060 to
154.066 and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code for the town. All violations
shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,500.
      (2)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
      (4)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-2015)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Incorporated by reference
§ 155.01 INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Hanover, Indiana, is hereby incorporated
by reference as if set forth in full herein. The full zoning ordinance can be
accessed on the town website through the following link, https://
www.townofhanover.net/building-zoning.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 8-2-2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   PROPERTY TRANSFERS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed   Description
Ord.          - -           Amendment to contract with Hensley Excavating
Ord.          - -           Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          - -           Agreement with independent contractor for meter
                            reading
Ord.          - -           Lease agreement for real estate
Ord.          - -           Interlocal agreement concerning emergency
                            dispatching services
Ord.          - -           Amendment to first site agreement
Ord.          - -           Lease agreement
Ord.          1-4-1989      Agreement for legal services
Ord.          4-5-1989      Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          5-3-1989      Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          5-3-1989      Agreement with Southwestern Recreation Association
Ord.          5-10-1989     Concessions operation contract
Ord.          1-24-1990     Agreement for legal services
Ord.          3-7-1990      Funding agreement
Ord.          3-23-1990     Agreement for park maintenance
Ord.          4-18-1990     Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          4-25-1990     Contract with Keystone Consulting Services, Inc.
Ord.          5-16-1990     Lease agreement for vehicle
Ord.          6-12-1990     Agreement concerning softball field
Ord.          6-19-1990     Concessions operation contract
Ord.          8-20-1990     Agreement with employee
Ord.          1-1-1991      Funding agreement
Ord.          1-9-1991      Agreement for legal services
Ord.          1-31-1991     Funding agreement
Ord.          2-6-1991      Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          3-6-1991      Agreement with Southwestern Recreation Association
Ord.          5-1-1991      Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          8-19-1991     Agreement to participate in the IACT group
                            application
Ord.          12-9-1991     Agreement with Rumpke
Ord.          1-8-1992      Agreement for legal services
Ord.          1-8-1992      Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          1-23-1992     Funding agreement
Ord.          8-24-1992     Agreement with Southwestern Recreation Association
Ord.          9-2-1992      Agreement for services of registrar and paying
                            agent
Ord.          10-7-1992     Agreement for services of registrar and paying
                            agent
Ord.          1-1-1993      Funding agreement
Ord.          1-6-1993      Contract for legal services
Ord.          3-17-1993     Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          7-14-1993     Agreement with Southwestern Recreation Association
Ord.          10-6-1993     Contract for recycling services
Ord.          10-6-1993     Contract for payment of services
Ord.          1-1-1994      Funding agreement
Ord.          1-19-1994     Contract for legal services
Ord.          3-11-1994     Interlocal agreement for park maintenance
Ord.          3-16-1994     Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          7-13-1994     Agreement with Southwestern Recreation Association
Ord.          10-5-1994     Agreement to allow company to discharge treated
                            ground water
Ord.          10-19-1994    Contract for recycling services
Ord.          12-30-1994    Interlocal agreement for police protection
Ord.          1-9-1995      Funding agreement
Ord.          1-18-1995     Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          1-18-1995     Contract for legal services
Ord.          2-6-1995      Contract for payment of services
Ord.          11-1-1995     Agreement with Southwestern Recreation Association
Ord.          11-15-1995    Contract for recycling services
Ord.          12-6-1995     Contract for payment of services
Ord.          1-1-1996      Funding agreement
Ord.          1-11-1996     Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          2-8-1996      Contract for legal services
Ord.          3-14-1996     Employment contract
Ord.          4-25-1996     Reimbursement for training costs
Ord.          5-4-1996      Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          5-25-1996     Reimbursement for training costs
Ord.          5-29-1996     Employment contract
Ord.          8-8-1996      Interlocal agreement concerning animal shelter
Ord.          10-25-1996    Agreement with GRW Engineers, Inc.
Ord.          11-14-1996    Agreement for the operation of animal shelter
Ord.          12-19-1996    Employment contract
Ord.          2-12-1997     Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          3-12-1997     Employment contract
Ord.          3-13-1997     Assignment of solid waste contract
Ord.          3-24-1997     Contract for recycling services
Ord.          5-15-1997     Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          5-27-1997     Contract with school concerning tennis court
Ord.          6-11-1997     Agreement with the Southwestern Recreation
                            Association
Ord.          7-9-1997      Employment contract
Ord.          11-24-1997    Contract for recycling services
Ord.          1-14-1998     Employment contract
Ord.          1-29-1998     Stormwater project agreement
Ord.          2-11-1998     Contract with Snells Backhoe Service
Ord.          2-11-1998     Agreement with GRW Engineers, Inc.
Ord.          2-12-1998     Agreement with Sadam Contracting Corporation
Ord.          2-25-1998     Employment contract
Ord.          2-25-1998     Reimbursement for training costs
Ord.          3-11-1998     Agreement with the Southwestern Recreation
                            Association
Ord.          3-11-1998     Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          4-8-1998      Agreement with Ellen Enterprises
Ord.          4-8-1998      Contract for legal services
Ord.          4-8-1998      Lease agreement
Ord.          4-22-1998     Employment contract
Ord.          7-1-1998      Arborist contract
Ord.          7-13-1998     Agreement with engineering company
Ord.          7-22-1998     Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          8-12-1998     Agreement with Regional Planning Commission
Ord.          9-26-1998     Lease agreement
Ord.          9-26-1998     Lease agreement
Ord.          10-14-1998    Employment contract
Ord.          11-11-1998    Contract for services
Ord.          11-24-1998    Professional services agreement
Ord.          12-30-1998    Employment contract
Ord.          1-13-1999     Agreement with PEH Engineers
Ord.          1-27-1999     Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          2-10-1999     Contract with contractor for services
Ord.          3-15-1999     Contract for property maintenance services
Ord.          3-24-1999     Agreement with Southwestern Recreation Association
Ord.          4-12-1999     Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          4-28-1999     Contract with Planning Commission
Ord.          5-12-1999     Agreement for legal services
Ord.          6-11-1999     Contract for services
Ord.          9-1-1999      Contract with Hensley Excavating
Res. 1999-9   9-15-1999     Water purchase contract
Ord.          10-14-1999    Employment contract
Ord.          10-27-1999    Agreement with Kent Water Company
Ord.          11-22-1999    Contract with independent contractor
Ord.          12-1-1999     Contract for recycling services
Ord.          1-1-2000      Employment contract
Ord.          2-21-2000     Sales agreement
Ord.          2-21-2000     Agreement with volunteer fire department
Ord.          2-21-2000     Contract extension with contractor
Ord.          3-20-2000     Agreement for legal services
Ord.          4-3-2000      Agreement to provide sewer services
Ord.          4-5-2000      Preventative maintenance agreement
Ord.          4-28-2000     Sales agreement
Ord.          5-15-2000     Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          8-24-2000     Agreement with water company
Res. 2000-10  11-20-2000    Adoption of financial software systems
Ord.          1-1-2001      Employment contract
Ord.          1-1-2001      Funding agreement
Ord.          1-11-2001     Agreement with college for water services
Ord.          1-29-2001     Agreement for engineering services
Ord.          3-1-2001      Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          3-26-2001     Agreement for contractor services
Ord.          5-14-2001     Agreement for legal services
Ord.          9-5-2001      Agreement for accounting services
Ord.          9-5-2001      Agreement with Planning Commission
Ord.          10-8-2001     Architectural engineering agreement
Ord.          11-27-2001    Contract for solid waste collection
Ord.          12-12-2001    Contract for the collection of recyclables
Res. 2001-10  12-12-2001    Lease agreement for equipment
Ord.          12-28-2001    Agreement for legal services
Ord.          1-31-2002     Employment contract
Ord.          1-31-2002     Employment contract
Ord.          1-31-2002     Agreement for fire protection services
Ord.          4-15-2002     Agreement with contractor
Ord.          5-30-2002     Employment contract
Res. 2002-11  10-3-2002     Lease agreement
Ord.          10-28-2002    Contract for recycling services
Ord.          3-11-2003     Lease agreement for water tower
Ord.          9-2-2003      Employment contract
Ord.          9-8-2003      Consulting contract
Ord.          12-23-2003    Employment contract
Ord.          12-29-2003    Employment contract
Ord.          12-20-2004    Employment contract
Ord.          12-20-2004    Employment contract
Ord.          12-20-2004    Agreement for fire protection services
Ord.          4-5-2005      Employment contract
Ord.          4-5-2005      Employment contract
Ord.          3-6-2006      Agreement concerning heating and air conditioning
                            maintenance
Ord.          12-22-2006    Employment contract
Ord. 2007-03  3-6-2007      Interlocal agreement concerning Animal Shelter
                            Advisory Board
Ord.          1-1-2008      Funding agreement
Ord.          1-3-2008      Contract for consultation and enforcement services
Ord.          3-4-2008      Agreement for legal services
Ord.          4-21-2008     Concessions operation contract
Ord.          6-1-2008      Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          11-5-2008     Agreement with HR Unlimited Resources
Ord.          12-29-2008    Contract for community and economic development
                            services
Ord.          1-1-2009      Funding agreement
Ord.          1-15-2009     Interlocal agreement concerning playground
                            equipment
Ord.          1-19-2009     Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          2-16-2009     Funding agreement
Ord.          6-1-2009      Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          12-30-2009    Contract for professional community and economic
                            development services
Ord.          1-1-2010      Funding agreement
Ord.          2-2-2010      Employment contract
Ord.          2-2-2010      Employment contract
Ord.          2-2-2010      Agreement for fire protection services
Ord.          5-24-2010     2010 concession operation contract
Ord.          6-1-2010      Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          6-2-2010      Funding agreement
Ord.          6-2-2010      Funding agreement
Ord.          6-11-2010     Funding agreement
Ord.          7-19-2010     Agreement for water and sewer easement
Ord.          8-31-2010     Agreement for water and sewer easement
Ord.          10-18-2010    Contract for solid waste and recyclables collection
Ord.          11-3-2010     Amendment to lease agreement
Ord.          11-10-2010    Funding agreement
Ord.          12-20-2010    Contract for professional community and economic
                            development services
Ord.          1-1-2011      Funding agreement
Ord.          2-15-2011     Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          3-4-2011      Renewal of heating and air conditioning maintenance
                            agreement
Ord.          3-28-2011     License agreement for sidewalk
Ord.          4-15-2011     Agreement with ASCAP
Ord.          6-1-2011      Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          7-1-2011      Amendment to lease agreement
Ord.          8-2-2011      Lease agreement
Ord.          8-5-2011      Lease agreement
Ord.          12-20-2011    Agreement with Southwestern Recreation Association
Ord.          12-20-2011    Contract for professional community and economic
                            development services
Ord.          12-20-2011    Agreement for the installation of signage
Ord.          1-1-2012      Funding agreement
Ord.          4-3-2012      Renewal of agreement
Ord.          4-3-2012      Agreement with County Commissioners
Ord.          6-1-2012      Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          8-30-2012     Amendment to lease agreement
Ord.          12-27-2012    Funding agreement
Ord.          1-1-2013      Contract for professional community and economic
                            development services
Ord.          1-1-2013      Funding agreement
Ord.          1-18-2013     Agreement with Midwestern Engineers, Inc.
Ord.          4-25-2013     Agreement with Southwestern Recreation Association
Ord.          6-1-2013      Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          7-2-2013      Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          7-15-2013     Interlocal agreement concerning dispatching
                            services
Ord.          9-16-2013     Contract for solid waste and recyclables collection
Ord.          1-1-2014      Funding agreement
Ord.          1-14-2014     Contract for professional community and economic
                            development services
Ord.          1-14-2014     Agreement for legal services
Ord.          3-11-2014     Amendment to water tower lease agreement
Ord.          4-25-2014     Concessions operation agreement
Ord.          5-13-2014     Agreement for legal services
Ord.          5-13-2014     Demolition services agreement
Ord.          6-1-2014      Software maintenance agreement
Ord.          7-22-2014     Construction contract
Ord.          1-1-2015      Funding agreement
Ord.          4-7-2015      Agreement with A.E. Boyce Company, Inc.
Ord.          6-2-2015      Concessions operation agreement
Ord.          6-2-2015      Agreement with Southwestern Recreation Association
Ord.          7-24-2015     Contract for services
Ord.          8-4-2015      Contract for engineering services
Ord.          12-30-2015    Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          - -2016       Contract for solid waste and recycling collection
Ord.          3-1-2016      Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          4-5-2016      Agreement with A.E. Boyce Company, Inc.
Ord.          6-21-2016     Agreement with Southwestern Recreation Association
Ord.          8-20-2016     Funding agreement
Ord.          1-17-2017     Transfer of ownership of K-9 officer
Ord.          2-7-2017      Agreement with volunteer fire company
Ord.          2-21-2017     Agreement for engineering services
Ord.          2-21-2017     Agreement for legal services
Ord.          1-1-2018      Funding agreement
Ord.          1-2-2018      Agreement for legal services
Ord.          3-19-2019     Agreement for fire protection services
Ord.          4-2-2019      Agreement for use of park facilities for 2019
Ord.          7-2-2019      Contract for video coverage of town meetings and
                            events in 2020
Ord.          10-1-2019     Interlocal agreement with Southwestern Recreation
                            Association
Ord.          10-15-2019  Contract with Rumpke of Indiana, LLC
Ord.          11-1-2019     Lease agreement with New Hope Services, Inc.
Res. 2019-65  11-6-2019     Interlocal agreement regarding emergency
                            dispatching, communications and other services
Ord.          12-3-2019     Lease agreement with Hanover Township Trustee
Ord.          12-3-2019     Contract for attorney services
Ord.          12-30-2019    Agreement for fire protection services
--            12-7-2021     Contract for attorney services
--            12-28-2021    Agreement for fire protection services
--            11-1-2022     Contract for attorney services
Ord. 2022-15  11-1-2022     Interlocal agreement terminating Cable Advisory
                            Board
Res. 2023-5   12-5-2023     Interlocal agreement for insurance benefits
--            12- -2023     Interlocal agreement for insurance benefits
--            12-28-2023    Lease agreement with Hanover Township Trustee
                           
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. 1989-3   6-7-1989    Transferring television franchise
Ord. 1993-8   6-11-1993   Granting franchise for cable television
Ord.          7-21-1993   Television franchise agreement
Ord. 1993-17  8-18-1993   Renewal of cable television franchise
Res. 1993-21  10-6-1993   Granting solid waste franchise
Res. 1994-12  10-19-1994  Granting solid waste franchise
Ord.          11-15-1995  Granting solid waste franchise
Ord.          3-12-1997   Granting solid waste franchise
Ord.          10-8-1997   Granting solid waste franchise
Ord. 2005-3   3-21-2005   Granting cable internet franchise
                         
 
TABLE III: PROPERTY TRANSFERS
Ord./Res5. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res5. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. 1992-2    1-8-1992    Vacation of streets
Ord.           2-2-1994    Transfer of certain infrastructure in the town
Ord. 1995-8    8-16-1995   Annexation of real estate
Res. 1996-7    11-14-1996  Sale of real estate
Ord. 98-22     9-9-1998    Annexation of real estate
Res. 2000-3    5-15-2000   Sale of police cars
Ord. 2000-22   7-26-2001   Annexation of real estate
Ord. 2003-8    4-1-2003    Vacation of water project easements
Res. 2008-14   11-24-2008  Purchase of a pick-up truck
Res. 2008-13   12-29-2008  Sale of a pick-up truck
Ord.           7-28-2010   Transfer of real estate to volunteer fire company
Res. 2012-2    5-1-2012    Transfer of police car
Ord.           4-2-2019    Transfer of fire vehicle
Ord.           12-12-2019  Transfer of firearm
Ord.           12-16-2019  Transfer of vehicle
Res. 2020-1    - -         Transfer of surplus personal property
Ord.           10-8-1997   Granting solid waste franchise
Ord. 2005-3    3-21-2005   Granting cable internet franchise
                          
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section               Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.12
1-1-1-8                    10.06
1-1-4-5                    10.05
1-1-5-1                    10.11
1-1-6-1                    10.08
3-5-3-11                   31.01
3-13-9-4                   30.04
4-33-13-5(e)               34.26
4-33-13-5(f)               34.26
5-3-1                      34.07,
                           151.027
5-14-1.5 et seq.           30.02
5-14-3-8                   33.002
5-22                       34.07
5-22-1-1 et seq.           34.07
9-13-2-93.2                33.002
9-17-2-12                  33.004
9-29-5-9                   33.002
13-18-19-1 et seq.         52.01
14-28-1                    154.044
14-28-1-26                 154.044
15-16-7-2                  91.26
15-16-8-1                  91.26
22-9-1-4 et seq.           93.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.           93.01
22-9.5-2-2                 93.02
22-9.5-2-3                 93.02
22-9.5-2-4                 93.02
22-9.5-2-8                 93.02
22-9.5-2-9                 93.02
22-9.5-2-11                93.02
22-9.5-2-13                93.02
22-9.5-3                   93.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.           93.10
22-9.5-4-8                 93.11
22-9.5-5                   93.02
22-9.5-5-1                 93.03
22-9.5-6                   93.02,
                           93.11
22-12-1-3                  150.21
31-37-3-3.5                130.03
35-41-3-2                  32.026
35-41-3-3                  32.026
36-1-3-4                   151.003
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-7-4(a)(3)             31.08
36-5-2-7 through 36-5-2-13 30.03
36-5-6-2                   31.05
36-5-6-6                   34.08
36-5-7-5                   32.002
36-7-1 et seq.             31.06
36-7-1                     151.012
36-7-3                     151.008
36-7-4                     154.001
36-7-4-700                 151.003
36-7-9                     150.01,
                           150.99
                           150.01,
36-7-9 et seq.             150.03,
                           150.22
36-7-9-1 et seq.           150.22
36-7-9-2                   150.01,
                           150.03
36-7-9-5                   150.99
36-7-9-7                   150.99
36-7-9-9                   150.99
                           150.21,
36-7-9-11                  150.22,
                           150.99
36-7-9-12                  150.99
36-7-9-13                  150.99
36-7-9-13.5                150.99
36-7-9-14                  150.04
36-7-10.1-3                91.27
36-7-10.1-3(c)             91.27
36-7-10.1-3(d)             91.27
36-7-10.1-4                91.27
36-7-700                   151.012
36-8-3-4                   33.177
36-8-4-12                  32.028
36-9-15.5                  34.23
36-9-23-31                 50.09,
                           52.25
36-10-3 et seq.            31.07
36-10-5-2                  30.08
36-10-5-2(b)(1)            31.07
                           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1990-2   1-24-1990   Ch. 71, Schd. II
1993-21  10-6-1993   TSO Table II
1994-12  10-19-1994  TSO Table II
1996-7   11-14-1996  TSO Table III
1998-5   5-13-1998   33.022
1999-9   9-15-1999   TSO Table I
2000-3   5-15-2000   TSO Table III
2000-10  11-20-2000  TSO Table I
2001-10  12-12-2001  TSO Table I
2002-11  10-3-2002   TSO Table I
2008-7   10-7-2008   32.040 –
                     32.043
2008-9   11-17-2008  33.020
2008-14  11-24-2008  TSO Table III
2008-13  12-29-2008  TSO Table III
2012-2   5-1-2012    TSO Table III
2016-01  10-18-2016  33.020
4-2019   - -         34.08
2019-65  11-6-2019   TSO Table I
2020-1   - -         TSO Table III
2022-2   3-15-2022   33.185
2023-2   5-16-2023   33.020
2023-3   9-5-2023    TSO Table III
2023-5   12-5-2023   TSO Table I
2024-5   2-6-2024    33.023
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
       - -         TSO Table I
        - -         TSO Table I
        - -         TSO Table I
        - -         TSO Table I
        - -         TSO Table I
        - -         TSO Table I
        - -         TSO Table I
        - -         152.01 –
                     152.03
                     152.15 –
                     152.17,
                     152.30 –
        - -         152.32,
                     152.45-
                     152.47,
                     152.60,
                     152.61
1991-7   - -         32.015 –
                     32.027
        1-4-1989    TSO Table I
        4-5-1989    TSO Table I
        5-3-1989    TSO Table I
        5-3-1989    TSO Table I
        5-10-1989   TSO Table I
1989-3   6-7-1989    TSO Table II
1989-9   12-20-1989  31.04
        1-24-1990   TSO Table I
        3-7-1990    TSO Table I
        3-23-1990   TSO Table I
        4-18-1990   TSO Table I
        4-25-1990   TSO Table I
        5-16-1990   TSO Table I
        6-12-1990   TSO Table I
        6-19-1990   TSO Table I
        8-20-1990   TSO Table I
1990-9   9-12-1990   Ch. 71, Schd. I
1990-12  12-5-1990   51.55   
                     51.58
        1-1-1991    TSO Table I
        1-9-1991    TSO Table I
        1-31-1991   TSO Table I
        2-6-1991    TSO Table I
        3-6-1991    TSO Table I
        5-1-1991    TSO Table I
        8-19-1991   TSO Table I
        9-4-1991    33.175 –
                     33.177
        12-9-1991   TSO Table I
        1-8-1992    TSO Table I
        1-8-1992    TSO Table I
1992-2   1-8-1992    TSO Table III
        1-23-1992   TSO Table I
        8-24-1992   TSO Table I
        9-2-1992    TSO Table I
1992-13  9-16-1992   33.012
        10-7-1992   TSO Table I
1992-17  11-4-1992   51.20 –
                     51.44
1992-18  11-4-1992   33.003
1992-21  12-29-1992  30.01
        1-1-1993    TSO Table I
        1-6-1993    TSO Table I
1993-3   2-17-1993   33.004
        3-17-1993   TSO Table I
                     92.15 –
1993-6   5-5-1993    92.20,
                     92.99
1993-8   6-11-1993   TSO Table II
        7-14-1993   TSO Table I
        7-21-1993   TSO Table II
1993-17  8-18-1993   TSO Table II
1993-18  9-1-1993    51.07
        10-6-1993   TSO Table I
        10-6-1993   TSO Table I
1993-26  12-1-1993   32.029
1993-29  12-15-1993  Ch. 71, Schd. IV
        1-1-1994    TSO Table I
        1-19-1994   TSO Table I
        2-2-1994    TSO Table III
        3-11-1994   TSO Table I
        3-16-1994   TSO Table I
        7-13-1994   TSO Table I
1994-6   7-13-1994   91.60 –
                     91.63
        10-5-1994   TSO Table I
        10-19-1994  TSO Table I
        10-19-1994  TSO Table I
        12-30-1994  TSO Table I
        1-9-1995    TSO Table I
        1-18-1995   TSO Table I
        1-18-1995   TSO Table I
        2-6-1995    TSO Table I
1995-5   6-21-1995   Ch. 71, Schd. I
1995-7   7-19-1995   Ch. 71, Schd. I
1995-6   8-2-1995    153.01 –
                     153.14
1995-8   8-16-1995   TSO Table III
        11-1-1995   TSO Table I
        11-15-1995  TSO Table II
        11-15-1995  TSO Table I
        12-6-1995   TSO Table I
1995-23  12-20-1995  Ch. 71, Schd. II
        1-1-1996    TSO Table I
        1-11-1996   TSO Table I
        2-8-1996    TSO Table I
1996-3   2-8-1996    32.003
        3-14-1996   TSO Table I
                     90.01 –
1996-2   3-14-1996   90.07,
                     90.99
        4-25-1996   TSO Table I
        5-4-1996    TSO Table I
1996-4   5-9-1996    33.042
        5-25-1996   TSO Table I
        5-29-1996   TSO Table I
        8-8-1996    TSO Table I
        10-25-1996  TSO Table I
        11-14-1996  TSO Table I
        12-19-1996  TSO Table I
        2-12-1997   TSO Table I
        3-12-1997   TSO Table II
        3-12-1997   TSO Table I
        3-13-1997   TSO Table I
        3-24-1997   TSO Table I
        5-15-1997   TSO Table I
        5-27-1997   TSO Table I
        6-11-1997   TSO Table I
        7-9-1997    TSO Table I
        10-8-1997   TSO Table II
        11-24-1997  TSO Table I
        1-14-1998   TSO Table I
        1-29-1998   TSO Table I
        2-11-1998   TSO Table I
        2-11-1998   TSO Table I
        2-12-1998   TSO Table I
        2-25-1998   TSO Table I
        2-25-1998   TSO Table I
        3-11-1998   TSO Table I
        3-11-1998   TSO Table I
        4-8-1998    TSO Table I
        4-8-1998    TSO Table I
        4-8-1998    TSO Table I
        4-22-1998   TSO Table I
        7-1-1998    TSO Table I
        7-13-1998   TSO Table I
        7-22-1998   TSO Table I
        8-12-1998   TSO Table I
98-22    9-9-1998    TSO Table III
1998-24  9-23-1998   34.06
1998-25  9-23-1998   34.07
        9-26-1998   TSO Table I
        9-26-1998   TSO Table I
        10-14-1998  TSO Table I
1998-30  10-14-1998  32.002
        11-11-1998  TSO Table I
        11-24-1998  TSO Table I
        12-30-1998  TSO Table I
        12-30-1998  33.011
        1-13-1999   TSO Table I
        1-27-1999   TSO Table I
        2-10-1999   TSO Table I
1999-2   2-10-1999   32.066
        3-15-1999   TSO Table I
        3-24-1999   TSO Table I
        4-12-1999   TSO Table I
        4-28-1999   TSO Table I
        5-12-1999   TSO Table I
        6-11-1999   TSO Table I
1999-12  7-7-1999    Ch. 71, Schd. I
        9-1-1999    TSO Table I
        9-15-1999   32.055 –
                     32.065
1999-18  9-15-1999   92.02
        10-14-1999  TSO Table I
        10-27-1999  TSO Table I
1999-23  10-27-1999  Ch. 72, Schd. I
        11-22-1999  TSO Table I
        12-1-1999   TSO Table I
        1-1-2000    TSO Table I
2000-1   1-3-2000    30.02
        2-21-2000   TSO Table I
        2-21-2000   TSO Table I
        2-21-2000   TSO Table I
2000-3   3-6-2000    34.05
        3-20-2000   TSO Table I
        4-3-2000    TSO Table I
        4-5-2000    TSO Table I
        4-28-2000   TSO Table I
2000-10  5-1-2000    130.01 –
                     130.03
        5-15-2000   TSO Table I
        5-15-2000   TSO Table I
        8-24-2000   TSO Table I
        1-1-2001    TSO Table I
        1-1-2001    TSO Table I
        1-11-2001   TSO Table I
        1-29-2001   TSO Table I
        3-1-2001    TSO Table I
        3-26-2001   TSO Table I
        5-14-2001   TSO Table I
2000-22  7-26-2001   TSO Table III
2001-4   8-21-2001   34.29
2001-5   8-21-2001   30.08
        9-5-2001    TSO Table I
        9-5-2001    TSO Table I
        10-8-2001   TSO Table I
        11-27-2001  TSO Table I
        12-12-2001  TSO Table I
        12-28-2001  TSO Table I
        1-31-2002   TSO Table I
        1-31-2002   TSO Table I
        1-31-2002   TSO Table I
                     52.01 –
2002-19  2-24-2002   52.09,
                     52.99
        4-15-2002   TSO Table I
        5-30-2002   TSO Table I
        10-28-2002  TSO Table I
                     91.45 –
2002-10  10-28-2002  91.49,
                     91.99
2002-14  10-28-2002  34.28
2002-17  12-2-2002   30.04
2002-18  12-2-2002   30.05
2003-3   2-10-2003   32.002
        3-11-2003   TSO Table I
2003-8   4-1-2003    TSO Table III
2003-10  6-3-2003    34.27
2003-12  7-21-2003   34.04
        9-2-2003    TSO Table I
        9-8-2003    TSO Table I
        12-23-2003  TSO Table I
        12-29-2003  TSO Table I
2004-2   2-3-2004    34.26
2004-1   2-16-2004   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2004-3   2-16-2004   34.25,
                     34.26
2004-5   4-6-2004    33.005
2004-12  9-20-2004   34.24
2004-14  12-7-2004   Ch. 72, Schd. I
        12-20-2004  TSO Table I
        12-20-2004  TSO Table I
        12-20-2004  TSO Table I
2005-1   2-21-2005   30.08
2005-3   3-21-2005   TSO Table II
        4-5-2005    TSO Table I
        4-5-2005    TSO Table I
2005-4   6-7-2005    35.01 –
                     35.10
                     151.001–
                     151.012,
                     151.025-
                     151.029,
                     151.040-
2005-5   6-7-2005    151.057,
                     151.070-
                     151.072,
                     151.085-
                     151.091,
                     151.999
2005-6   8-2-2005    155.01
        8-15-2005   151.012
        3-6-2006    TSO Table I
2006-1   3-7-2006    92.21
2006-2   6-19-2006   92.01
        12-22-2006  TSO Table I
2006-6   1-15-2007   150.20 –
                     150.23
        2-20-2007   31.03
2007-03  3-6-2007    TSO Table I
        1-1-2008    TSO Table I
        1-3-2008    TSO Table I
        3-4-2008    TSO Table I
        4-21-2008   TSO Table I
        6-1-2008    TSO Table I
        11-5-2008   TSO Table I
        12-29-2008  TSO Table I
        1-1-2009    TSO Table I
        1-15-2009   TSO Table I
        1-19-2009   TSO Table I
        2-16-2009   TSO Table I
2009-3   2-16-2009   31.02
        6-1-2009    TSO Table I
        12-30-2009  TSO Table I
                     111.01 –
                     111.07,
2009-7   12-30-2009  111.20-
                     111.37,
                     111.99
        1-1-2010    TSO Table I
        2-2-2010    TSO Table I
        2-2-2010    TSO Table I
        2-2-2010    TSO Table I
        5-24-2010   TSO Table I
                     90.20 –
2010-4   5-24-2010   90.24,
                     90.99
        6-1-2010    TSO Table I
        6-2-2010    TSO Table I
        6-2-2010    TSO Table I
        6-11-2010   TSO Table I
        7-19-2010   TSO Table I
        7-28-2010   TSO Table III
        8-31-2010   TSO Table I
        10-18-2010  TSO Table I
        11-3-2010   TSO Table I
        11-10-2010  TSO Table I
        12-20-2010  TSO Table I
        1-1-2011    TSO Table I
        2-15-2011   TSO Table I
        3-4-2011    TSO Table I
        3-4-2011    TSO Table I
        3-28-2011   TSO Table I
        4-15-2011   TSO Table I
        6-1-2011    TSO Table I
        7-1-2011    TSO Table I
        8-2-2011    TSO Table I
        8-5-2011    TSO Table I
2011-8   11-15-2011  33.002
2011-9   11-15-2011  34.03
        12-20-2011  TSO Table I
        12-20-2011  TSO Table I
        12-20-2011  TSO Table I
        1-1-2012    TSO Table I
                     110.01 –
2012-5   3-6-2012    110.03,
                     110.99
        4-3-2012    TSO Table I
        4-3-2012    TSO Table I
        6-1-2012    TSO Table I
2012-02B 6-5-2012    30.07
2012-7   6-19-2012   32.066
2012-11  8-7-2012    Ch. 71, Schd. IV
        8-30-2012   TSO Table I
        12-27-2012  TSO Table I
2012-21  12-27-2012  30.01
        1-1-2013    TSO Table I
        1-1-2013    TSO Table I
2013-3   1-2-2013    33.021
        1-18-2013   TSO Table I
        4-25-2013   TSO Table I
        6-1-2013    TSO Table I
2013-09  6-4-2013    33.002
        7-2-2013    TSO Table I
2013-15  7-2-2013    34.02
                     33.035 –
2013-16  7-2-2013    33.041,
                     33.999
        7-15-2013   TSO Table I
2013-22  8-19-2013   Ch. 71, Schd. III
2013-23  9-3-2013    33.021
        9-16-2013   TSO Table I
        1-1-2014    TSO Table I
        1-14-2014   TSO Table I
        1-14-2014   TSO Table I
2014-05  1-28-2014   33.035
        3-11-2014   TSO Table I
        4-25-2014   TSO Table I
        5-13-2014   TSO Table I
        5-13-2014   TSO Table I
        6-1-2014    TSO Table I
        7-22-2014   TSO Table I
2014-12  8-28-2014   70.15 –
                     70.21
2014-13  8-28-2014   70.01 –
                     70.04
                     150.01   
2014-15  12-9-2014   150.05,
                     150.99
        1-1-2015    TSO Table I
       1-1-2015    36.01
2015-02  1-20-2015   33.055 –
                     33.066
                     154.001 –
                     154.013,
                     154.025-
                     154.027,
2015-05  3-17-2015   154.040-
                     154.047,
                     154.060-
                     154.066,
                     154.999
        4-7-2015    TSO Table I
        6-2-2015    TSO Table I
        6-2-2015    TSO Table I
        7-24-2015   TSO Table I
        8-4-2015    TSO Table I
2015-15  12-29-2015  52.20 –
                     52.25
        12-30-2015  TSO Table I
        - -2016     TSO Table I
        3-1-2016    TSO Table I
        4-5-2016    TSO Table I
        6-21-2016   TSO Table I
2016-6   6-30-2016   34.23
2016-08  8-2-2016    93.01 –
                     93.11
        8-20-2016   TSO Table I
2016-18  12-27-2016  34.22
2016-24  12-27-2016  33.010
        1-17-2017   TSO Table I
        2-7-2017    TSO Table I
2017-3   2-7-2017    33.001
        2-21-2017   TSO Table I
        2-21-2017   TSO Table I
2017-12  7-20-2017   34.21
2017-19  11-21-2017  34.01
        1-1-2018    TSO Table I
        1-2-2018    TSO Table I
2018-4   5-1-2018    91.25 –
                     91.31
2018-5   6-5-2018    34.20
2018-6   6-5-2018    91.28
2018-7   10-16-2018  31.01
2019-01  1-2-2019    30.03
        3-19-2019   TSO Table I
        4-2-2019    TSO Table I
        4-2-2019    TSO Table III
2019-3   4-16-2019   50.01 –
                     50.12
                     51.01 –
2019-4   4-16-2019   51.06,
                     51.99
        7-2-2019    TSO Table I
2019-9   8-16-2019   51.01
        10-1-2019   TSO Table I
        10-15-2019  TSO Table I
        11-1-2019   TSO Table I
       12-3-2019   TSO Table I
       12-3-2019   TSO Table I
       12-12-2019  TSO Table III
       12-16-2019  TSO Table III
       12-30-2019  TSO Table I
2020-1   1-7-2020    30.03
2020-5   5-5-2020    34.03
2020-6   5-6-2020    Adopting Ordinance
2020-10  9-1-2020    Ch. 71, Schd. I
2020-12  8-18-2020   31.07
2020-14  9-1-2020    34.30
2020-20  1-19-2021   51.02,
                     51.99
                     91.01 –
2020-21  1-19-2021   91.11,
                     91.99
2021-1   1-5-2021    30.03
2021-3   3-16-2021   34.31
2021-4   3-16-2021   34.32
2021-6   6-15-2021   Ch. 71, Schd. I
2021-10  7-20-2021   34.33
        12-7-2021   TSO Table I
        12-28-2021  TSO Table I
2022-1   1-4-2022    30.03
2022-4   4-5-2022    Ch. 72, Schd. I
2022-5   5-17-2022   31.08
2022-7   6-21-2022   52.20
2022-11  10-4-2022   51.01 -
                     51.06
        11-1-2022   TSO Table I
2022-15  11-1-2022   TSO Table I
2022-18  12-6-2022   30.01
2023-1   1-3-2023    30.03
2023-6   2-7-2023    35.02
2023-7   2-7-2023    92.01
2023-9   2-21-2023   34.23
2023-10  - -2023     50.01 –
                     50.12
2023-12  5- -2023    30.02,
                     31.02
2023-14  9-5-2023    TSO Table III
2023-16  9-5-2023    34.34
–      12- -2023   TSO Table I
–      12-28-2023  TSO Table I
2024-1   1-2-2024    30.03
2024-3   5-21-2024   51.45
2024-7   8-20-2024   30.01
2024-8   8-20-2024   Ch. 71, Schd. I
2024-9   8-20-2024   92.03
2024-10  8-20-2024   34.35
2024-15  11-6-2024   50.08
                    
 
 
