HARTFORD CITY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 2021-09, passed 6-7-2021
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Construing provisions
   
10.04   Application to future ordinances
   
10.05   Construction of code
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Prohibited acts include causing and permitting
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.14   Limitation periods
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “City of Hartford
City Code,” for which the designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 CONSTRUING PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of the ordinances of the city, and all proceedings under
them, are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote
justice.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.080)
§ 10.04 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously- existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly-enacted laws. Any previously-existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously-existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters and sections of this code, whether as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification in any official
publication to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders. Words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular. The use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the past and future tenses and vice versa, unless
manifestly inapplicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BASIC CATV SERVICE. The distribution of broadcast television signals by
the company.
      CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CATV. A system composed of, without
limitation, antennas, cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides or any other
conductors, converters, equipment or facilities designed, constructed or wired
for the purpose of producing visual, radio, television, electronic or
electrical signals to and from persons, subscribers and locations in the
franchise area.
      CITY. The City of Hartford City, Indiana, or the area within the
territorial limits outside of the city over which the city has jurisdiction or
control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory provisions.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk- Treasurer of the Common Council.
      COMPANY. The grantee of rights under an ordinance.
      COUNCIL. The Common Council of the City of Hartford City, Indiana.
      COUNTY. The County of Blackford, Indiana.
      ECONOMICAL. An improvement, expansion or maintenance of the sendee at the
same or less cost to the customer of the company.
      FRANCHISE AREA. The area within the corporate limits of the city.
      GALLERY. Any building, room or combination of buildings and rooms for the
specific purpose of displaying or creating visual arts.
      GROSS ANNUAL BASIC SUBSCRIBER REVENUES. Any and all compensation and
other consideration received directly by the company from subscribers in
payment for regularly-furnished basic CATV service. GROSS ANNUAL BASIC
SUBSCRIBER REVENUE shall not include any taxes on services furnished by the
company which are imposed directly on any subscriber or user by any city, state
or other governmental unit and collected by the company for the governmental
unit.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the constitution, the statutes of
the state, the ordinances of the city and, when appropriate, any and all rules
and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
      LITERARY ARTS. Any written form including, but not limited to, creative
writing projects, poetry, fiction, non-fiction, short stories, plays or
dramatic writing.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      MUST and SHALL. The acts referred to are each mandatory.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in those cases, the
words “swear” and “sworn” shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and
“affirmed.”
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or
a part of the building or land.
      PERFORMING ARTS. Any art form recognized as a performing art, such as
dramatic presentations, dance, folk dance, ballet or any other art form
commonly recognized as a PERFORMING ART.
      PERSON. Includes a natural person, joint venture, association, club,
joint stock company, partnership, company, corporation, business, trust or
organization or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debt.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real property and personal property.
      PROPERTY OF COMPANY. All property owned, installed or used by the company
in the conduct of a CATV business in the city.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line which is intended for the use of pedestrians.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STREET. Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs or other public ways in the city which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and opened to public use or other public property so
designated in any law of the state.
      SUBSCRIBER. Any person or entity receiving basic CATV service.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, includes any person
who occupies the whole or part of the building or land, whether alone or with
others.
      THEATER. Any building, room or collection of rooms designed and
specifically employed for the purpose of the display and creative use of the
performing arts, including rehearsals, castings, backdrops, scenery and
audience facilities.
      VISUAL ARTS. Any art form recognized as a visual art, including painting,
sculpture, ceramics or any other commonly-recognized art form requiring visual
appreciation.
      WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed,
multi-graphed or otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form. Where the
written signature of a person is required, the terms mean the proper
handwriting of the person or the person’s mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5) (Prior Code, § 1.04.010)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, then the invalidity
does not affect other sections which can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, then the invalidity
does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the municipality who is
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in a provision
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government and that name designation is
incorrectly stated, on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity, then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly-named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intent of the
provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING AND PERMITTING.
   Whenever, in the ordinances of the city, any act or omission is made
unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, abiding, abetting,
suffering or concealing the fact of the act or omission.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.060)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Sunday or a state holiday, then it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code which repealed a former section or law adopted
prior to the enactment of this code is repealed, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.14 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, to the
prosecution of offenses or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures, which
are repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by the repeal and
reenactment, but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for causes arising or
acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may be commenced and
prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, then the chapter or section shall be specifically
repealed and a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment
substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinances and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, then this
indicates that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the
statute. Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, then this indicates that the reader should
refer to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in a previous year and subsequently amended,
the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, §      ).”
§ 10.18 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   (1)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued,
penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this
code. The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued and the
punishments, penalties and forfeitures enforced and imposed as if this code had
not been enacted.
      (2)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into, franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers
shall remain valid in all respects as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with any of
the mandatory requirements of the ordinances of the city shall be guilty of an
offense. Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed by any
ordinance of the city, any person convicted of an offense shall be punished by
a fine of up to $7,500, except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic
and parking.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.010)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Boundaries adopted by reference
§ 11.01 BOUNDARIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s official map is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this chapter as fully as if the same were attached hereto and incorporated
herein, and such is on public display in City Hall and filed with the offices
of the County Auditor and County Recorder. The map specifies the corporation
boundaries of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.010)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED AND APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
33.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   FUNDS
      
36.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
37.   INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
      
38.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED AND APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
Section
Executive Branch
   
30.01   Mayor
   
30.02   Board of Public Works and Safety
   
30.03   Establishment of executive departments
   
30.04   Purchasing Department
   
30.05   Powers of departments
Legislative Branch
   
30.20   Common Council, composition and term
   
30.21   Presiding officer of the Common Council
   
30.22   Clerk of the Common Council
   
30.23   Common Council meetings
   
30.24   Common Council procedures
   
30.25   Election of Common Council members
Fiscal Branch
   
30.40   City Clerk-Treasurer, election and term
   
30.41   Deputy Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.42   City utility administration
Judicial Branch
   
30.55   Abolition of the City Court
   
30.56   Enabling provisions
   
30.57   Transfer of jurisdiction
   
30.58   Statutory authority and effective date
   
30.59   Continuation of City Court operation required and authorized until 12-
31-1987
EXECUTIVE BRANCH
§ 30.01 MAYOR.
   (A)   Establishment and powers. The Mayor is the city’s executive and the
head of the executive branch. He or she shall faithfully perform the duties and
responsibilities as set forth in I.C. 36-4-5 and all other applicable statutes
of the state.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of office of the Mayor is four years,
beginning at noon on the January 1 after his or her election and continuing
until a successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   Election. The Mayor shall be elected by voters of the whole city.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.010) (Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984)
§ 30.02 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   (A)   Establishment and powers. There is hereby established a Board of
Public Works and Safety within the executive branch. The Board shall be the
chief administrative body of the city and shall have control of the day-to-day
operations of the executive departments established in §
30.03 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.020)
   (B)   Members of the Board and powers.
      (1)   The members of the Board of Public Works and Safety shall consist
of the Mayor and two residents of the city, who shall be chosen by the Mayor
and serve at his or her pleasure. The Board of Public Works and Safety shall
exercise the powers and duties as prescribed by state law.
      (2)   The Mayor is specifically authorized to choose members of the Board
of Public Works and Safety, shall appoint the heads of the departments listed
in §
30.03 of this chapter and shall appoint the head of the Department of Parks and
Recreation with the approval of the Board operating the Department, pursuant to
I.C. 36-4-9-2 and I.C. 36-4-11-2.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.030)
(Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984)
§ 30.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   The following executive departments are hereby established:
      (1)   Police Department;
      (2)   Fire Department;
      (3)   Street Department;
      (4)   Waterworks Utility Department;
      (5)   Sewage Works Department; and
      (6)   Department of Law, established pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-12.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.020)
   (B)   The departments established in division (A) above shall perform the
administrative functions assigned to them by statute and ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.040)
(Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984; Res. 1992-34, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 30.04 PURCHASING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. There is established the Purchasing Department of the
city, which shall be subject to applicable provisions of the state statutes and
any subsequent or amending statutes.
   (B)   Purchasing Agent.
      (1)   (a)   There is established the position of Purchasing Agent for the
city.
         (b)   The Purchasing Agent shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall
serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
      (2)   The Purchasing Agent shall be compensated at a salary established
in a salary ordinance by the Common Council of the city and provided within a
budget ordinance adopted by the Common Council of the city.
   (C)   Duties, responsibilities and administration. The duties,
responsibilities and methods of administration of the Purchasing Department of
the city shall conform with those delineated in I.C. 5-22 and by the Board of
Public Works and Safety of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.070) (Ord. 1059, passed 7-17-1985)
§ 30.05 POWERS OF DEPARTMENTS.
   Subject to the appropriation power of the Common Council, the departments in
§§
30.03 and
30.04 of this chapter shall have the ability to hire employees and purchase or
contract for materials and services as the Board of Public Works and Safety or
other governing boards or commissions deem necessary in order for the
departments to perform their public functions.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.050) (Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984)
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
§ 30.20 COMMON COUNCIL, COMPOSITION AND TERM.
   (A)   Establishment and powers. The legislative branch of the city is the
Common Council. The Common Council shall have exclusive authority to adopt
ordinances, appropriate tax monies received by the city and perform the duties
prescribed by I.C. 36-4-6.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.010)
   (B)   Membership. The Council shall be comprised of five members, four of
whom are elected from distinct districts and one of whom is elected by the
voters of the city at large. Redistricting of councilmanic districts shall be
done every ten years in accordance to I.C. 36-4-6-4 and 36-4-6-5.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.050)
   (C)   Term of office. The term of office for a Common Council member is four
years, beginning at noon on the January 1 after his or her election and
continuing until a successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.060)
(Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984)
§ 30.21 PRESIDING OFFICER OF THE COMMON COUNCIL.
   Pursuant to the applicable statutes of I.C. 36-4-6-10 through 36-4-6-17, the
Mayor, or in the absence of the Mayor, the President of the Common Council,
shall be the presiding officer of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.040) (Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984)
§ 30.22 CLERK OF THE COMMON COUNCIL.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Clerk of the Council and shall perform
duties prescribed by I.C. 36-4-6-9 and other duties as the Council may direct.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.020) (Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984)
§ 30.23 COMMON COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The regular meeting for the Common Council of the city shall be held at 7:30
p.m. on the first Monday of each month in the Council’s chambers with the
exception of the first Monday in September, which meeting shall be held at that
hour and place on the last Monday in August.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.030) (Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984)
§ 30.24 COMMON COUNCIL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No person shall use violent or contemptuous language, behave in a
disorderly manner or otherwise refuse to obey the orders of the Mayor or
presiding officer in the Council’s chambers while the Common Council is in
session. The Mayor or presiding officer may order the removal from the
Council’s chambers of any person who intentionally disturbs the decorum of a
meeting.
   (B)   All ordinances except for budget ordinances and zoning ordinances of
the city shall require not more than two consecutive meetings, and all
ordinances in conflict hereof are hereby repealed.
   (C)   Resolutions may be passed on the same day on which they are introduced
upon receiving the approval of at least three of five members of the Common
Council.
   (D)   On the passage or adoption of any ordinance or resolution, the yeas
and nays shall be taken and entered in the record, and an ordinance shall be
processed in accordance with I.C. 36-4-6-14 through 36-4-6-17.
   (E)   All ordinances presented for passage by the Council may be read by
title only if, prior to the introduction of any ordinance, the ordinance has
been made available to all Council members, the press and the public for study.
At the introduction of an ordinance and upon a motion duly adopted, the
ordinance shall be read by title and discussion called for by Council members,
and then the introduction for each reading and, upon the discussion being
closed, motion and vote upon the ordinance shall be taken by the Council. Any
decision to suspend the rules governing the passage of an ordinance or
resolution can only be made by unanimous vote of the Council when at least four
members are in attendance.
   (F)   Any abstention from voting by a Council member shall constitute a nay
vote, except for in the case of an abstention for a declared reason of conflict
of interest.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.040) (Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984; Ord. 1274, passed 11-20-
1989)
§ 30.25 ELECTION OF COMMON COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Hartford City, Indiana.
      COUNCIL. The Common Council of the city.
      PRECINCT. The precinct by that name, as established by the County Board
of Commissioners and approved by the State Election Board under I.C. 3-11-1.5,
which is in existence on the effective date of this section.      
(Prior Code, § 2.16.010)
   (B)   Voting for Council members. The Council is composed of five members.
Each voter of the city may vote for one candidate for at-large membership and
for one candidate from the district in which the voter resides.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.020)
   (C)   Council districts. The Council divides the city into districts for the
purpose of conducting elections of Council members. See Exhibit “A,” which is
attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a part hereof by reference
as if set out herein in full.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.030)
   (D)   Areas not included in a district. If any part of the city is not
included in one of the districts established by division (C) above, then that
territory is included within the district which:
      (1)   Is contiguous to that territory; and
      (2)   Contains the smallest population, as “population” is defined in
I.C. 1-1-4-5.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.040)
   (E)   Areas in more than one district. If any part of the city is included
in more than one of the districts established by division (C) above, then that
territory is included within the district which:
      (1)   Is one of the districts in which the territory is described in
division (C) above;
      (2)   Is contiguous to that territory; and
      (3)   Contains the smallest population, as “population” is defined in
I.C. 1-1-4-5.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.050)
   (F)   Adoption of map.
      (1)   The Council adopts a map depicting the districts established under
division (C) above and incorporates said map by reference into this division
(F). Two copies of this map are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
for public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
      (2)   If a conflict exists between the districts as depicted on the map
and as described in division (C) above, then the description in division (C)
prevails.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.060)
   (G)   County Election Board notification. The Clerk-Treasurer of the city
forwarded a signed copy of this section to the Circuit Court Clerk of the
county and requested the Clerk to include the copy of this section in the
records of the County Election Board.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.070)
FISCAL BRANCH
§ 30.40 CITY CLERK-TREASURER, ELECTION AND TERM.
   (A)   Establishment and powers. The Clerk-Treasurer is the Fiscal Officer of
the city and the head of the fiscal branch. He or she shall perform the duties
assigned by I.C. 36-4-10 and other duties as the Common Council may require by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.010)
   (B)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the voters of the
whole city.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.020)
   (C)   Term of office. The term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four
years, beginning at noon on the January 1 after his or her election and
continuing until a successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.030)
(Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984)
§ 30.41 DEPUTY CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized, pursuant to I.C. 36-4-11-4, to
appoint one Deputy Clerk-Treasurer, who is to be paid solely from funds
appropriated for the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The Deputy shall work under
the exclusive direction of the Clerk-Treasurer and serve at the pleasure of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.040) (Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984)
§ 30.42 CITY UTILITY ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish space within his or her office
for the administration and records of the city’s utilities.
      (2)   The various utility clerks needed to manage the bookkeeping and
administrative requirements of said utilities shall be appointed after
recommendation to the Board by the Clerk-Treasurer, and after employment, shall
be compensated by the Board having control of the utility which the utility
clerk serves.
   (B)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and made responsible for the
immediate supervision and discipline of the utility clerk(s) and payroll clerk
(s).
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall supervise the performance and duties of
the utility clerk(s) and payroll clerk(s).
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall abide by the procedures established by
the Board of Public Works and Safety, the Common Council, the applicable
provisions of the State Code and the applicable provisions of the United States
Code in the performance of his or her disciplinary and supervision duties and
in recommending the dismissal of employees.
      (2)   The utility clerk(s) and payroll clerk(s) are at-will employees and
may be dismissed by the Board of Public Works and Safety under the conditions
of at-will employment upon the recommendation of the Clerk-Treasurer and the
concurrence of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be compensated for services which he or she
renders to the city’s utilities.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.050) (Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984; Ord. 1136, passed 12-8-
1986; Ord. 2003-17, passed 12-1-2003)
JUDICIAL BRANCH
§ 30.55 ABOLITION OF THE CITY COURT.
   Ord. 1036 and Ord. 1095, which were adopted by the Common Council January 5,
1984, and August 7, 1985, respectively, are hereby repealed and the City Court
is hereby abolished.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.010)
Editor’s note:
   The City Court was abolished by Ord. 1136, passed 12-8-1986.
§ 30.56 ENABLING PROVISIONS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall notify the Clerk of the County
Election Board of the provisions of this subchapter and that there will be no
election for the office of City Judge in 1987 due to the abolition of the City
Court. The Clerk-Treasurer shall inform and notify the Secretary of the State,
the Judge of the County Circuit Court and the State Court Administrator at the
State Supreme Court that the City Court has been abolished and of the effective
date of said abolition.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.020)
§ 30.57 TRANSFER OF JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Upon the abolition of the City Court, on the effective date of the
abolition of the City Court, all matters then pending, all records of
proceedings, findings or judgments and docket books and records of cases closed
or pending, together with all pertinent findings and the like, shall be
transferred to the custody of the County Court.
   (B)   Henceforward, from the aforesaid date, the County Court shall have
full jurisdiction over all complaints for violations of city ordinances and
shall be the authorized court of record for the pleadings and processes which
are necessitated by the proper conducting of city business and enforcement of
city ordinances. The City Attorney shall cause all city pleadings for the
enforcement of city ordinances to be filed and heard before the County Superior
Court following the penalties collected by the County Superior Court as a
result of findings in city ordinance violations shall be forwarded, at least
monthly, to the City Clerk-Treasurer to be deposited in the City General Fund.
   (C)   The Judge of the City Court, prior to the effective date of the
abolition of the Court, shall cause all financial ledgers and records of the
Court to be transferred to the custody of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.030)
§ 30.58 STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter was specifically adopted pursuant to the authority vested in
the Common Council by state statutes, and took effect at 11:59 p.m., EST, on
December 31, 1987.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.040)
§ 30.59 CONTINUATION OF CITY COURT OPERATION REQUIRED AND AUTHORIZED UNTIL 12-
31-1987.
   (A)   The Judge, Clerk and Bailiff of the City Court shall continue to cause
the City Court to be in full operation until December 31, 1987, and shall
continue to be compensated at the level of remuneration established by
ordinance.
   (B)   Should the City Court Judge, Clerk or Bailiff for any reason cease to
perform their duties in a manner required to maintain City Court operations
prior to December 31, 1987, or fail to assist in the transition and transfer of
jurisdiction to the County Court, then the Common Council shall, by resolution,
make a finding of nonperformance of duties in each case and prohibit the
payment of any further remuneration to the person or persons failing to perform
duties.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.050) (Ord. 1136, passed 12-8-1986)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Organizations
   
31.001   Police Pension Board of Trustees
   
31.002   Firefighters’ Pension Board of Trustees
   
31.003   County Area Plan Commission
Storm Water Management Department
   
31.015   Establishment
   
31.016   Board of Directors; powers and duties
   
31.017   Revenues
   
31.018   Use of revenues
   
31.019   Depreciation Account and Bond and Interest Redemption Account
   
31.020   Methods of financing
   
31.021   Taxing districts
   
31.022   User fees
   
31.023   Bonds of storm water district
   
31.024   Bond restrictions
   
31.025   Money received from bonds
   
31.026   Payment of principal and interest of bonds
   
31.027   Costs and payment for services rendered by storm water system
   
31.028   Procedure for improvement projects
   
31.029   Hearings on projects; remonstrances
   
31.030   Appeals
   
31.031   Special taxing district bonds
   
31.032   Special benefit tax
Department of Parks and Recreation
   
31.045   Establishment
   
31.046   Parks Board; composition and powers
   
31.047   Parks Board; term of office
   
31.048   Electing Board President and Vice- President
   
31.049   Budget
Department of Economic Development
   
31.060   Establishment
Youth Council
   
31.075   Establishment
   
31.076   Youth Council membership; term of office
   
31.077   Youth Council officers; term of office
   
31.078   Purposes and objectives
   
31.079   Powers and duties
   
31.080   Meetings
City Council for the Arts
   
31.095   Establishment; composition
   
31.096   Term
   
31.097   Powers
   
31.098   Acquisition of land, real estate or buildings
   
31.099   Employment of professional services
   
31.100   Reporting of activities and financial status
City Municipal Building Corporation
   
31.115   Establishment
   
31.116   Board of Directors
   
31.117   Acquiring, financing, constructing and equipping facilities
   
31.118   Sale of First Mortgage Bonds
   
31.119   Redemption and retirement of bonds
   
31.120   Statutory authority and tax exemptions
GENERAL ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.001 POLICE PENSION BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   There shall be a Police Pension Board of Trustees to perform certain duties
prescribed by I.C. 36-8-6, 1925 fund, and I.C. 36-8-8, 1977 fund, concerning
the statutory pension of city police officers.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.020)
§ 31.002 FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   There shall be a Firefighters’ Pension Board of Trustees to perform certain
duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8-7, 1925 fund, and I.C. 36-8-8, 1977 fund,
concerning the statutory pension of city firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.030)
§ 31.003 COUNTY AREA PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Common Council hereby adopts the provisions of Ch. 138 of the Acts
of the 1957 State General Assembly, as amended, I.C. 36-4 et seq.
   (B)   The city hereby agrees to join in and participate with the Area
Planning Department of the county, which was established by a separate
ordinance of the county, and which was organized at its first meeting called by
the President of the Board of County Commissions.
   (C)   The membership of the County Area Planning Commission shall be set
forth in I.C. 36-7-4 et seq.
   (D)   Upon its passage and proper signature, a copy of this section was
certified to the Board of County Commissioners of the county, the respective
officials of the City of Montpelier, Indiana, and the President of the Board of
County Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.010) (Ord. 741, passed 5-20-1986)
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT
§ 31.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city adopted the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-5, thereby creating a
Department of Storm Water Management.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.010)
§ 31.016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Department of Storm Water Management shall be controlled by the
Board of Directors, consisting of three Directors who are members of the City
Board of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.020)
   (B)   The Board shall have the powers and duties prescribed by I.C. 8-1.5-3-
4(a) and may, in addition, hold hearings following public notice, make findings
and determinations, install, maintain and operate a storm water collection and
disposal system, make all necessary or desirable improvements of the grounds
and premises under its control and issue and sell bonds of the district in the
name of the municipality for the acquisition, construction, alteration,
addition or extension of the storm water collection and disposal system or for
the refunding of any bonds issued by the Board, and shall also have the
authority to employ attorneys and engineers to facilitate the work of the
Board.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.040)
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 31.017 REVENUES.
   The Board may fix and set aside:
   (A)   Revenues of the Department necessary for reasonable and proper
operation and maintenance;
   (B)   Revenues for a proper and adequate Depreciation Account; and
   (C)   Revenues to be applied to the payment of the principal and interest of
the authorized bonds.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.070)
§ 31.018 USE OF REVENUES.
   The revenues set aside to the Depreciation Account shall be expended for:
   (A)   The repair of the storm water system;
   (B)   New acquisitions, construction, extensions or additions to the
property of the storm water system; or
   (C)   Transfer to the Bond and Interest Redemption Account to prevent a
default.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.100)
§ 31.019 DEPRECIATION ACCOUNT AND BOND AND INTEREST REDEMPTION ACCOUNT.
   (A)   In fixing the revenues of the Department required for operation and
maintenance, the Board shall consider the cost of the operation and maintenance
of the Department.
   (B)   If a surplus is accumulated in the Operating and Maintenance Account,
then the Board may transfer any excess over that surplus to:
      (1)   The Depreciation Account, to be used for any improvements,
extensions or additions to the storm water system; or
      (2)   The Bond and Interest Redemption Account.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.080)
§ 31.020 METHODS OF FINANCING.
   The acquisition, construction, installation, operation and maintenance of
the facilities and land for storm water systems may be financed through:
   (A)   The proceeds of special taxing district bonds of the storm water
district;
   (B)   The assumption of liability incurred to construct the storm water
system being acquired;
   (C)   Service rates;
   (D)   Revenue bonds; and
   (E)   Any other available funds.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.050)
§ 31.021 TAXING DISTRICTS.
   A special taxing district of the Department of Storm Water Management shall
include all territory within the corporate boundaries of the city. The
territory within the corporate boundaries of the city shall constitute a
special taxing district for the purpose of providing for the collection and
disposal of the storm water of the district in a manner which protects the
public health and welfare and for the purpose of levying special benefit taxes
for the purpose of storm water collection and disposal.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.030)
§ 31.022 USER FEES.
   The Board, after approval by the Common Council of the city, may assess and
collect user fees from all of the property of the storm water district for the
operation and maintenance of the storm water district.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.060)
§ 31.023 BONDS OF STORM WATER DISTRICT.
   (A)   The bonds of the storm water district are:
      (1)   A valid claim of the holders only against the Bond and Interest
Redemption Account and the revenues of the storm water system; and
      (2)   Exempt from taxation in the state, as provided by I.C. 6-8-5.
   (B)   The bonds may be issued either as registered bonds or as coupon bonds
payable to the bearer.
   (C)   Except as provided in I.C. 5-1-5, bonds shall be sold in accordance
with I.C. 5-1-11. The registration of bonds does not affect negotiability.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.110)
§ 31.024 BOND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Board may not issue any bonds authorized by this subchapter until
it has secured approval for the issuance of the bonds from the legislative body
of the municipality.
   (B)   I.C. 6-1.1-20 applies to the issuance of bonds under this subchapter
which are or may be payable from the special benefit property tax.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.200) (Ord. 1313, passed 9-3-1991)
§ 31.025 MONEY RECEIVED FROM BONDS.
   (A)   All money received from bonds issued under this subchapter shall be
applied solely to the acquisition, construction, repair and maintenance of the
storm water system, the cost of the issuance of the bonds and the creation of
any reserve for the bonds.
   (B)   Any holder of the bonds may bring a civil action to compel the
performance of all duties required by this subchapter of the Board issuing the
bonds or of any officer of the Board, including the following:
      (1)   Making and collecting reasonable and sufficient user fees lawfully
established for services rendered by the storm water system;
      (2)   Segregating the income and revenues of the Department; and
      (3)   Applying the respective funds created under this subchapter.
   (C)   If there is any default in the payment of the principal or interest of
any of the bonds, then a court having jurisdiction of the action may:
      (1)   Appoint an administrator or receiver to administer the storm water
system on behalf of the municipality and the bondholders, with the power to:
         (a)   Charge and collect user fees lawfully established and sufficient
to provide for the payment of the operating expenses and also to pay any bonds
or obligations outstanding against the storm water system;
         (b)   Apply the income and revenues in conformity with this subchapter
and the ordinance; or
         (c)   Declare the whole amount of the bonds due and payable and direct
the sale of the storm water system.
      (2)   Under a sale of the storm water system as ordered in division (C)
(1) above, the purchaser is vested with an indeterminate permit as defined in
I.C. 8-1-2-1 to maintain and operate the storm water system to collect and
dispose of storm water for the municipality and its citizens.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.120)
§ 31.026 PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST OF BONDS.
   (A)   The revenues set aside for the payment of the principal and interest
of the authorized bonds shall be deposited and credited to a special account
identified as the Bond and Interest Redemption Account.
   (B)   In determining the amount which is to be set aside for the payment of
the principal and interest of the authorized bonds, the Board may provide that
the amount to be set aside and paid in to the Bond and Interest Redemption
Account for any year or years should not exceed a fixed sum, which must be at
least sufficient to provide for the payment of the interest and principal of
the bonds maturing and becoming payable in each year.
   (C)   If a surplus is created in the Bond and Interest Redemption Account,
then the Board may transfer any excess over the surplus to:
      (1)   The Operation and Maintenance Account; or
      (2)   The Depreciation Account.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.090)
§ 31.027 COSTS AND PAYMENT FOR SERVICES RENDERED BY STORM WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The reasonable cost and value of any service rendered to the
municipality by the storm water system by furnishing storm water collection and
disposal shall be:
      (1)   Charged against the municipality; and
      (2)   Paid for in monthly installments as the service accrues out of the:
         (a)   Current revenues of the municipality, whether collected or in
the process of collection; and
         (b)   Tax levy of the municipality made by it to raise money to meet
its necessary current expenses.
   (B)   Compensation for the services provided to the municipality shall, in
the manner prescribed by this subchapter, be treated as revenues of the system
and paid into the funds created under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.130)
§ 31.028 PROCEDURE FOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   (1)   If, upon investigation, the Board finds that the storm water
system is insufficient to furnish the necessary collection and disposal of
storm water to properly protect the public health and welfare and safeguard the
property within the district, or that it is necessary to acquire, construct,
rebuild, repair, extend or improve the storm water system and equipment, to
acquire lands or to construct, erect or acquire other systems and other
structures and equipment appurtenant to them, then the Board shall prepare
maps, plans, specifications and drawings with full details and descriptions for
the proposed work, together with an estimate of the cost.
      (2)   The Board shall also prepare a description of all property rights
necessary to be acquired in connection with the proposed work and the manner in
which the rights are to be acquired, whether by purchase or appropriation,
along with a description of any other property which may be injuriously
affected, together with the estimated cost.
      (3)   The Board shall then adopt a resolution approving the project by:
         (a)   Declaring that it is necessary for the protection of the public
health and welfare of the inhabitants of the storm water district and the
safeguarding of the property within the district;
         (b)   Declaring that it is of public utility and benefit;
         (c)   Appropriating the property described in the resolution;
         (d)   Stating the maximum proposed cost of any land to be purchased;
and
         (e)   Adopting plans, maps, specifications, drawings, details,
descriptions and estimates.
   (B)   (1)   If the resolution is adopted, then the Board shall publish a
notice in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 of the adoption of the resolution and of
the fact that plans, specifications and estimates have been prepared and can be
inspected. The notice must also name a date not less than ten days after the
date of the last publication when the Board will receive or hear remonstrances
from the persons interested in, or affected by, the resolution, and when it
will determine the public utility and benefit of the project.
      (2)   Notice shall be mailed to the owners of all property appropriated
by the resolution. If a landowner is a nonresident and the landowner’s place of
residence is known, then a notice shall be mailed to the nonresident owner. If
the nonresident owner’s residence is known to the Board, then the owner is
considered notified of the pendency of the proceedings by the publication of
notice.
   (C)   Separate descriptions of each piece or parcel of land are not required
in the resolution and notice. It is a sufficient description of the property
purchased or to be purchased, or to be appropriated or damaged, to give a
description of the entire tract, whether it is one or more lots or parcels and
whether it is owned by one or more persons. All persons affected by the
proceedings, including all taxpayers in the storm water district, are
considered to be notified of the proceedings and all subsequent acts, hearings,
adjournments and orders of the Board by the original publication of notice.
   (D)   The Board may, before adoption of the resolution, obtain from the
owners of the property an option for its purchase, or the Board may enter into
a contract for its purchase an appraisal by two qualified land appraisers. An
option or contract is subject to the final action of the Board confirming,
modifying or rescinding the resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.140)
§ 31.029 HEARINGS ON PROJECTS; REMONSTRANCES.
   (A)   At the time fixed for the hearing or before the hearing, the following
persons may file a written remonstrance with the Board:
      (1)   The owner of the real property, right- of-way or other property to
be appropriated under the resolution;
      (2)   A person injuriously affected by the appropriation; or
      (3)   A person owning real or personal property within the storm water
district.
   (B)   The Board shall:
      (1)   Hear all persons interested in the proceedings;
      (2)   Hear all of the remonstrances which have been filed; and
      (3)   Take action to confirm, modify or reject the resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.150)
§ 31.030 APPEALS.
   (A)   A person who has remonstrated in writing and is aggrieved by the
decision of the Board may, within 30 days, take an appeal to the Circuit Court
of the county in which the storm water district is located.
   (B)   A remonstrator desiring to appeal the action of the Board shall,
within 30 days after the final action of the Board, file in the office of the
Clerk of the Circuit Court a copy of the order of the Board and the
remonstrance, together with a bond conditioned to pay for the costs of the
appeal should the appeal be determined against the remonstrator.
   (C)   The Court may hear the appeal only if the question is whether the
Board acted arbitrarily or capriciously in adopting the resolution.
   (D)   The cause shall be tried by the Court without a jury.
   (E)   All remonstrances upon which appeals are taken may be consolidated and
heard as one claim for relief by the Court.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.160)
§ 31.031 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT BONDS.
   (A)   To procure money to pay for the required property and the acquisition,
erection and construction of the proposed work, and in anticipation of the
collection of the special benefit tax, the Board may issue, in the name of the
municipality, special taxing district bonds of the storm water district. The
bonds may not exceed the total estimated cost of the work and property to be
acquired as provided for in the resolution, including:
      (1)   All expenses necessarily incurred for supervision and inspection
during the period of construction; and
      (2)   Expenses actually incurred preliminary to the acquiring of the
necessary property and the construction of the work, including the costs of
records, engineering expenses, the publication of notices, salaries and other
expenses incurred before and in connection with the acquiring of the property,
the letting of the contract and the sale of bonds.
   (B)   After adopting a resolution authorizing the bonds, the Board shall
certify a copy of the resolution to the municipal Fiscal Officer, who shall
then prepare the bonds. The municipal executive shall execute the bonds and the
Fiscal Officer shall attest the bonds.
   (C)   (1)   The Board may not issue bonds of the storm water district
payable by a special benefit property tax when the total of the outstanding
bonds of the district which are payable from a special benefit property tax,
including the bonds already issued and to be issued, exceeds 8% of the total
assessed valuation of the property within the district after deducting all
exemptions. For the purposes of this section, bonds are not considered to be
outstanding bonds if the payment has been provided for by an irrevocable
deposit in escrow of government obligations sufficient to pay the bonds when
due or called for redemption. The bonds are not a corporate obligation or
indebtedness of the municipality, but are in indebtedness of the storm water
district.
      (2)   The bonds and interest are payable:
         (a)   Out of a special benefit tax levied upon all of the property of
the storm water district; or
         (b)   By any other means, including revenues, cash on hand and cash in
depreciation or reserve accounts.
   (D)   The bonds must recite the terms upon their face, together with the
purpose for which they are issued.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.170)
§ 31.032 SPECIAL BENEFIT TAX.
   (A)   To raise the necessary revenues to pay for the bonds issued and the
interest on said bonds, the Board:
      (1)   After approval by the legislative body of the municipality, shall
levy a special benefit tax upon all of the property of the storm water district
in the amount necessary to meet and pay the principal of the bonds as they
severally mature, together with all accruing interest; and
      (2)   Shall certify the tax levied each year to the Fiscal Officers of
the municipality and of the county in which the storm water district is located
at the same time the levy of the municipality is certified.
   (B)   The tax levied and certified shall be estimated and entered upon the
tax duplicate and shall be collected and enforced in the same manner as state
and county taxes are estimated, entered and enforced. In fixing the amount of
the necessary levy, the Board:
      (1)   Shall consider the amount of revenues derived by the Board from the
operation of the storm water system under its jurisdiction above the amount of
revenues required to pay the costs of the operation and maintenance of the
storm water system; and
      (2)   May, in lieu of making the levy in this section, set aside by
resolution a specific amount of the surplus revenues to be collected before
maturity of the principal and interest of the bonds payable in the following
calender year.
   (C)   The special tax shall be deposited in the Bond and Interest Redemption
Account.
(Prior Code, § 3.80.180)
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 31.045 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3, there is hereby created a municipal
Department of Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 2.64.010) (Ord. 2015-03, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 31.046 PARKS BOARD; COMPOSITION AND POWERS.
   (A)   Composition. The Parks and Recreation Board shall be composed of six
members who are appointed by the Mayor of the city on the basis of their
interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation. No more than three members
shall be of the same political party.
(Prior Code, § 2.64.020)
   (B)   Powers. The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary
to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be parks and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have all of the powers listed in I.C. 36-10-3 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2.64.050)
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 5-4-2015; Ord. 2021-05, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 31.047 PARKS BOARD; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Upon the original establishment of the Board, the terms initially
appointed shall be:
      (1)   One member for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member for a term of two years;
      (3)   One member for a term of three years; and
      (4)   One member for a term of four years.
   (B)   In 2021, the city expanded the Parks Board by two members. The terms
of these two new Board members shall be:
      (1)   One member for a term of one year; and
      (2)   One member for a term of two years.
   (C)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the Mayor for
a term of four years. All terms shall expire on the first Monday in January,
but a member shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
If an appointment for a new term is not made by the executive by the first
Monday in April, then the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy
occurs, then the executive shall appoint a new member for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2.64.030) (Ord. 2021-05, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 31.048 ELECTING BOARD PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIDENT.
   At its first regular meeting each year, the Board shall elect a President
and a Vice-President. The Vice- President shall have the authority to act as
the President of the Board during the absence or disability of the President.
The Board may select a Secretary from within or without its own membership.
(Prior Code, § 2.64.040) (Ord. 2015-03, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 31.049 BUDGET.
   (A)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of city government, as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts.
   (B)   The Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for parks and
recreation purposes. However, real estate may only be accepted up by the
approval of the City Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 2.64.070) (Ord. 2015-03, passed 5-4-2015)
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 31.060 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Department of Economic Development, consisting
of the Economic Development Commission organized under I.C. 36-7-12 and having
the powers, duties and responsibilities as set forth therein.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.010) (Ord. 1036, passed 1-5-1984)
YOUTH COUNCIL
§ 31.075 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City Youth Council is created upon the conditions set forth in this
subchapter. “Youth Council” shall refer to the City Youth Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.68.010) (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 31.076 YOUTH COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Membership.
      (1)   Membership shall be composed of 25 voting members, all between the
grades of five through 11, whom must reside in the territorial limits of the
city and the County Community School Corporation.
      (2)   The Mayor shall appoint one Youth Council Director and the Common
Council shall appoint one Youth Council Director.
      (3)   The Mayor and the Youth Council Directors shall appoint Youth
Council members.
      (4)   The County High School Administration shall be encouraged to
recommend students for appointment to the Youth Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.68.020)
   (B)   Term of office.
      (1)   Each member of the Youth Council shall be appointed for a term of
two years or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. A term of
office shall begin on January 1 of each year.
      (2)   Vacancies occurring on the Youth Council after the date of
appointment thereto shall be filled by the Mayor or Youth Council Directors.
The Youth Council may make recommendations to the Mayor or Youth Council
Directors concerning persons to be considered in filling the vacancies.
(Prior Code, § 2.68.030)
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 31.077 YOUTH COUNCIL OFFICERS; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. The Youth Council shall elect from its members the
following officers. This election shall take place not later than November 10
of the election year.
      (1)   President. The President shall preside at all meetings of the Youth
Council, correspond with the Mayor and the Common Council at least once each
month and, in addition to the Treasurer, approve all vouchers. The President
shall perform other duties which are normal for a presiding officer.
      (2)   Vice-President. The Vice-President shall preside at all meetings of
the Youth Council during the absence or disability of the President, and shall
perform other duties which the Youth Council shall determine from time to time.
      (3)   Secretary. The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Youth
Council, take and keep in his or her custody the minutes of all meetings and
provide a copy for the Mayor and the City Clerk-Treasurer. The Secretary shall
perform other duties which the Youth Council shall determine from time to time.
      (4)   Treasurer. The Treasurer shall make a monthly report on the
finances of the Youth Council at the first meeting of each month. He or she
shall also make a written yearly report on all finances of the Youth Council
and provide a copy of this report to the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer. The
Treasurer, in addition to the President, must approve all vouchers. The
Treasurer shall perform other duties which the Youth Council shall determine
from time to time.
      (5)   Other officers. Other officers or assistants may be elected by the
Youth Council as prescribed in its bylaws.
(Prior Code, § 2.68.040)
   (B)   Term of office. Each officer of the Youth Council shall hold office
for a term of two years and until his or her successor is elected and
qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2.68.050)
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 31.078 PURPOSES AND OBJECTIVES.
   The purpose and objectives of the Youth Council are:
   (A)   To provide a direct communication vehicle between the youth of the
city and the city’s administration;
   (B)   To strive for better understanding and communications between the
youth of the city, the city’s administration and the community as a whole;
   (C)   To create its own projects related to Youth Council purposes and
objectives;
   (D)   To encourage the city to provide activities for its young people;
   (E)   To support, aid and assist persons or organizations with ideas or
projects which promote Youth Council purposes and objectives;
   (F)   To provide Youth Council members with the experience of working with
city government; and
   (G)   To provide better understanding and harmonious relationships among
youth.
(Prior Code, § 2.68.070) (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 31.079 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Youth Council may establish the understanding committees and
special committees, which it determines from time to time.
   (B)   The Youth Council may hold hearings on any matter concerning the
special needs and welfare of those citizens of the city who are under the age
of 18, and it may make written recommendations to the Mayor and to the Common
Council concerning its findings and conclusions from these hearings.
   (C)   The Youth Council may designate one of its members as a liaison person
between the Youth Council and the Common Council of the city.
   (D)   The Youth Council may designate one of its members as a liaison person
between the Youth Council and each of the various boards.
   (E)   (1)   The Youth Council may designate one of its members as a liaison
person between the Youth Council and each of the various boards and commissions
of the city.
      (2)   The Youth Council designee to any board or commission may make
written recommendations concerning that board or commission to the Youth
Council, which may approve, disapprove or modify said recommendations. Approved
recommendations shall be submitted to the Mayor and to the chairperson of the
appropriate board or commission.
   (F)   The Youth Council shall not spend any city monies unless funds are
appropriated by the City Common Council or funds are donated by the public for
the use of the City Youth Council.
   (G)   The Youth Council may adopt written bylaws to govern and regulate its
proceedings. One copy of these bylaws shall be provided to each member of the
Youth Council and one copy shall be provided to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2.68.080) (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 31.080 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Youth Council shall meet regularly each month. The meeting shall
be held on the same day of each month unless that day is a legal holiday, in
which event the meeting shall be rescheduled for another day which is not a
legal holiday.
   (B)   The day of each regular meeting shall be selected and determined by
the Youth Council at its organizational meeting, and the meeting day may also
be specified in the bylaws of the Youth Council if it adopts a code of bylaws.
   (C)   The Youth Council may meet at other times at special meetings called
by its President or by a majority of the members of the Youth Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.68.060) (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-3-2004)
CITY COUNCIL FOR THE ARTS
§ 31.095 ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION.
   There shall be established a City Council for the Arts. The Council shall be
composed of five members, one member to be appointed by the Common Council of
the city and four members to be appointed by the Mayor of the city. All members
shall be residents of the city; at the time they cease to be residents of the
city, they shall cease to be members of the Council. Not more than three
members shall be affiliated with the same political party.
(Prior Code, § 2.48.010) (Ord. 1047, passed 5-7-1984)
§ 31.096 TERM.
   The term of membership shall be four years, concurrent with the term of the
Common Council of the city and the Mayor, and shall be appointed upon the
inauguration or commencement of each new city administration.
(Prior Code, § 2.48.020) (Ord. 1047, passed 5-7-1984)
§ 31.097 POWERS.
   The City Council for the Arts shall be empowered to act in a manner to
encourage, maintain and sustain the visual and performing arts within the city
and its immediate vicinity. These powers shall be as outlined in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.48.030) (Ord. 1047, passed 5-7-1984)
§ 31.098 ACQUISITION OF LAND, REAL ESTATE OR BUILDINGS.
   The City Council for the Arts shall be empowered, with the approval of the
Common Council of the city, to acquire and maintain any lands, real estate or
buildings necessary for the purpose of encouraging and maintaining the visual
or performing arts. The buildings, lands or real estate shall be used only for
the purposes for which the City Council for the Arts originally acquired them
and shall not revert to any other use without the approval of the Common
Council of the city and, if a grant-in-aid from a foundation or governmental
use was involved in the acquisition, the approval of the foundation or
governmental unit which provided a grant-in-aid for the acquisition.
(Prior Code, § 2.48.040) (Ord. 1047, passed 5-7-1984)
§ 31.099 EMPLOYMENT OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The City Council for the Arts may employ and utilize professional
services for the purpose of encouraging and maintaining the visual and
performing arts in the city limits.
   (B)   The employment of professional services shall take place only when
funds have been appropriated or granted for that specific purpose, and the
employment of professional services shall not exceed in cost the monies
available, appropriated or granted for that specific purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2.48.060) (Ord. 1047, passed 5-7-1984)
§ 31.100 REPORTING OF ACTIVITIES AND FINANCIAL STATUS.
   (A)   The City Council for the Arts shall prepare and furnish to the Common
Council of the city and the Clerk-Treasurer of the city an annual report of its
activities and financial status.
   (B)   The report shall fully and accurately reflect the activities and
financial status of the City Council for the Arts.
(Prior Code, § 2.48.050) (Ord. 1047, passed 5-7-1984)
CITY MUNICIPAL BUILDING CORPORATION
§ 31.115 ESTABLISHMENT.
   It is hereby determined to be proper and in the public interest of the
citizens of the city to reapprove the incorporation of the corporation known
and designated as the City Municipal Building Corporation for the purpose of
financing, improving and equipping municipal facilities and leasing the same to
the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.60.010) (Res. passed 10-18-2004)
§ 31.116 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Board hereby reapproves the Directors of the City Municipal Building
Corporation.
(Prior Code, § 2.60.070) (Res. passed 10-18-2004)
§ 31.117 ACQUIRING, FINANCING, CONSTRUCTING AND EQUIPPING FACILITIES.
   Providing for the financing, improving and equipping of such municipal
facilities by the City Municipal Building Corporation and the leasing of the
same to the city is in the public interest of the citizens of the city, and it
is a proper public purpose for which the Board agrees to cooperate with the
City Municipal Building Corporation and to assist it in fulfilling the
requirements of all agencies of the federal, state and local governments.
(Prior Code, § 2.60.040) (Res. passed 10-18-2004)
§ 31.118 SALE OF FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS.
   The issuance, sale and delivery by the City Municipal Building Corporation
of bonds designated City Municipal Building Corporation First Mortgage Bonds in
the aggregate principal amount of approximately $1,240,000 is hereby approved.
(Prior Code, § 2.60.050) (Res. passed 10-18-2004)
§ 31.119 REDEMPTION AND RETIREMENT OF BONDS.
   Upon the redemption or retirement of the bonds to be issued by the City
Municipal Building Corporation, the city will accept from the City Municipal
Building Corporation the title to such municipal facilities free and clear of
any and all liens and encumbrances thereon.
(Prior Code, § 2.60.060) (Res. passed 10-18-2004)
§ 31.120 STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND TAX EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The City Municipal Building Corporation may issue, sell and deliver
its bonds pursuant to the applicable laws of the state, may encumber any real
property or equipment acquired by it for the purpose of financing the
improvements and equipping of such municipal facilities and may enter into
contracts for the sale of the bonds and the improvements to and acquisition of
such municipal facilities.
   (B)   The city reasonably expects that tax-exempt obligations issued by or
on behalf of the city, including First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, of the City
Municipal Building Corporation, as well as bonds and temporary loan warrants of
the city, will not exceed $10,000,000 in calendar year 2005. The First Mortgage
Bonds, Series 2005, in the amount of $1,240,000 are designated as qualified
tax-exempt obligations for the purposes of I.R.C. § 265(b) of 1986, being 26
U.S.C. § 265(b).
   (C)   The city reasonably expects that tax-exempt obligations issued by or
on behalf of the city, including the First Mortgage Bonds of the City Municipal
Building Corporation, as well as bonds and temporary loan warrants of the city,
will not exceed $5,000,000 in the calendar year 2005. Pursuant to I.R.C. § 148
(f)(4)(D) of 1986, being 26 U.S.C. § 148(f)(4)(D), as amended, the city
irrevocably allocates to the City Municipal Building Corporation $1,240,000 of
its $5,000,000 limit for the purpose of qualifying for the small governmental
exception to the rebate requirement.
(Prior Code, § 2.60.080) (Res. passed 10-18-2004)
CHAPTER 32: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Ordinance Violations Clerk duties
   
32.03   Collection of civil penalties for violations
   
32.04   Subsequent and continuing violations
   
32.05   Prosecution procedure for violations
   
32.06   Right to trial
   
32.07   Penalty schedule
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established the Ordinance Violations Bureau of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.010) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 32.02 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS CLERK DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall serve as the Ordinance Violations Clerk
and be the Administrator of the Bureau.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.020)
   (B)   The Violations Clerk shall accept written appearances, waivers of
trial, admissions of violations and payments of civil penalties of not more
than $250, or in such amount that the General Assembly may hereafter allow in
ordinance violation cases subject to the schedule prescribed under §
32.07 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.030)
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 32.03 COLLECTION OF CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon an admission made within 30 days after the date of a citation,
the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount prescribed by
the schedule of civil penalties established under §
32.07 of this chapter. All citations not admitted and paid within 30 days shall
be transferred to a court of record of competent jurisdiction and prosecuted in
the usual manner.
   (B)   All sums collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for
ordinance violations shall be accounted for and paid to the municipal
corporation as provided by law, I.C. 33-36-3-7 or replacements. Civil penalties
shall be paid to, receipted by and accounted for by the Clerk under procedures
provided for by the State Board of Accounts. The payment of civil penalties
under this chapter may be made in person, by mail or to an agent or agents
designated by the legislative body.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.040) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 32.04 SUBSEQUENT AND CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Subsequent violations. Any person, corporation or organization which
commits more than one violation of any of the offenses specifically noted
herein within any 12-month period will be subject to an increased fine for each
and every violation as set forth herein.
   (B)   Continuing violations. Every continuous day, or part of a day, in
which a violation is committed or continues in existence is a separate
violation for which civil penalties may be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.050) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 32.05 PROSECUTION PROCEDURE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Clerk shall report
this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute ordinance
violation cases for the municipal corporation:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.070) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 32.06 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   (A)   A person charged with an ordinance or code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk.
   (B)   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to
trial, then the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the
violation or enter a written denial with the Clerk.
   (C)   Upon denial, the Violations Clerk shall transfer the proceeding to a
court of record located in the county and shall mail a copy thereof to the
person charged. Mailing of the transfer to the last known address of the
charged person as stated in the charge or as furnished by the charged person
shall be deemed notice.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.070) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 32.07 PENALTY SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following penalty provisions of this code shall be subject to
admission of violation before the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
                                                   Civil Penalty per
Penalty Ordinance Description of Civil Penalty per Subsequent Offense
Reference         Violation      Offense           Occurring within 12
                                                   Months of Initial
                                                   Offense
                                                            Civil Penalty per
Penalty Ordinance Description of          Civil Penalty per Subsequent Offense
Reference         Violation               Offense           Occurring within 12
                                                            Months of Initial
                                                            Offense
                  Truck regulations       $250              $250
                  Traffic Code, general   $50               $75
                  Traffic Code, snow      $75               $75
                  emergency
§                Golf carts              $200              $200
72.99
§                Dogs and cats           $250              $250
92.99(C)
§                Nuisances               $100              $100
93.99(B)
§                Abandoned vehicles and  $50               $100
94.99(C)          impoundment
§                Open storage of         $250              $250
94.99(D)          hazardous materials
§                Open burning            $50               $100
95.99(B)          restrictions
§                Rules and regulations   $50               $50
96.99(B)          for parks and pools
§                Garage sales            $25               $50
112.99(B)
§                Peddlers, solicitors    $250              $250
113.99            and transient merchants
§                City-owned property
130.99(B)         protection,             $250              $250
                  preservation
§                Littering               $250              $250
130.99(D)
§                Regulation of sex       $200              $200
131.99(C)         offenders
§                Discharge of firearms   $250              $250
132.99(B)
§                Prohibiting alcoholic
133.99(B)         beverages in public     $250              $250
                  parks
 
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provisions set forth in division (A) above,
any provision, title, chapter, subchapter or section of this code which, by its
own terms, clarifies that the fine or penalty for the violation of its terms
shall be paid through the Ordinance Violations Bureau shall be subject to
admission of violation before the Ordinance Violations Bureau even if said
provision, title, chapter, subchapter or section is not specifically set forth
in the table contained in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.060) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-5-2006; Ord. 2009-19, passed
11-2-2009)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Terms and conditions of employment
   
33.02   Maximum hours for part-time city employees
   
33.03   Indemnification of city officials, officers and employees
   
33.04   City liability for employees volunteering with Fire Department
Compensation
   
33.15   Elected officials
   
33.16   Other officials and employees
Drug and Alcohol Abuse Policy
   
33.30   Introduction
   
33.31   Purpose
   
33.32   Scope
   
33.33   Employee policy
   
33.34   Testing conditions
   
33.35   Employees testing positive
   
33.36   Employees taking prescription drugs
   
33.37   Termination
   
33.38   Preemployment screening
   
33.39   Effective date
Commercial Driver’s License Drug and Alcohol Policy
   
33.50   Purpose
   
33.51   Scope
   
33.52   Prohibited conduct
   
33.53   Testing conditions
   
33.54   Preemployment testing
   
33.55   Post-accident testing
   
33.56   Random testing
   
33.57   Reasonable suspicion testing
   
33.58   Alcohol tests
   
33.59   Drug urinalysis
   
33.60   Substance abuse evaluation; follow-up testing
   
33.61   Authorization for previous test records
   
33.62   Training for supervisors
   
33.63   Training and informing drivers and driver/applicants
   
33.64   Refusal to test
   
33.65   Consequences of policy violation
   
33.66   Termination
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   The terms and conditions of city personnel shall be established and
maintained as set out in the City Personnel Policy Handbook, made a part hereof
as if set out fully herein.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.060) (Res. 2006-06, passed 4-3-2006; Res. 2006-07, passed
4-17-2006; Res. 2021-01, passed 1-4-2021; Res. 2021-02, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 33.02 MAXIMUM HOURS FOR PART-TIME CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The city shall limit the number of hours worked each week for every part-
time employee to a maximum of 28 hours in any week.
(Res. 2013-06, passed 5-6-2013; Res. 2013-06, passed 5-20-2013; Res. 2013-08,
passed 6-3-2013)
§ 33.03 INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY OFFICIALS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Terms of limits of indemnification. Beginning at 12:01 a.m., EST, on
January 1, 1986, and thereafter, the city hereby does and shall indemnify all
elected officials, duly-appointed officers and employees of the city for the
commission or incurrence of any and all errors, omissions, liabilities and
damages assessed for violations of civil rights assessed by any court or agency
of proper jurisdiction of the state or of any other state of the United States
or foreign state, provided, however, that such errors, omissions, liabilities
or damages for violations of civil rights are not committed or incurred with
malfeasance or gross negligence by the elected official, duly- appointed
officer or employee of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.52.010)
   (B)   Approved methods and means.
      (1)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city shall procure
insurance coverage from a reputable carrier, duly licensed to sell insurance in
the state, covering against and indemnifying the city, elected officials of the
city, duly-appointed officers of the city and employees of the city for errors,
omissions, liabilities and violations of civil rights when the Common Council
of the city has made current budget appropriations in the amount sufficient to
obtain reasonable coverage and when the coverage becomes available through
competitive bid procedures for the amount duly appropriated.
      (2)   When coverage does not become available, or in the eventuality of
coverage being available and obtained in an amount insufficient to indemnify
the city, elected officials of the city, duly- appointed officers of the city
or employees of the city, the city shall assure indemnification in an amount to
meet the total sum assessed as damages or liabilities by the court or agency of
proper jurisdiction, the city, duly-appointed officers of the city or employees
of the city, in the full amount of the damages or liabilities assessed.
(Prior Code, § 2.52.020)
(Ord. 1105, passed 1-6-1986)
§ 33.04 CITY LIABILITY FOR EMPLOYEES VOLUNTEERING WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that anytime a “second call” is issued by
the City Fire Department for volunteers to report to the scene of a fire or to
the City Fire Department for backup purposes, a city employee who is also a
volunteer firefighter may respond only under the following conditions:
      (1)   The employee requests permission from his or her department head
or, in the absence of the department head, the department head’s designee to
respond to the call;
      (2)   The employee notifies the dispatch center that he or she is
responding to the call; and
      (3)   Upon returning to work, the employee shall report to his or her
department head or, in the absence of the department head, the department
head’s designee that he or she has returned to work.
   (B)   In all cases, the department head or, in the absence of the department
head, the department head’s designee will make the final determination in
allowing employees serving as volunteer firefighters to report to “second call”
responses.
(Res. 1996-06, passed 4-1-1996)
COMPENSATION
§ 33.15 ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   The annual salary of the Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer, and members of the Common
Council shall be established annually by ordinance pursuant to I.C. 36-4-7-2.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.010) (Ord. 2020-12, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 33.16 OTHER OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Common Council shall provide reasonable compensation for other city
officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.020) (Res. 2020-01, passed 1-2-2020; Ord. 2020-12, passed
11-2-2020; Ord. 2021-03, passed 2-1-2021; Ord. 2021-04, passed 2-1-2021)
DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE POLICY
§ 33.30 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   It is the policy for the city to provide a safe working environment
for all employees and to continue the tradition of the highest standard of
quality in service. It is also the city’s policy to assist employees who have a
problem with drug and alcohol abuse.
   (B)   These goals establish a firm policy against drug and alcohol abuse in
the workplace. The city’s goal is to eliminate the abuse, not to eliminate the
abuser. The city’s goal is to help, not to apprehend.
(Res. 1996-01, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.31 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purposes of the policy set forth in §
33.33 of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To establish and maintain a safe and healthful working environment
for all employees;
      (2)   To ensure the reputation of the city and its employees within the
community at large;
      (3)   To reduce the number of accidental injuries to persons or property;
      (4)   To reduce absenteeism and tardiness and to improve performance;
      (5)   To provide rehabilitation assistance for any employee who seeks
such help; and
      (6)   To comply with the United States Drug- Free Workplace Act, being 41
U.S.C. §§ 8101 et seq.
   (B)   The city regrets any inconvenience or problems which the policy may
cause but believes that the overall benefit to the city and employees makes it
both necessary and helpful.
(Res. 1996-01, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.32 SCOPE.
   This policy is not intended nor should it be construed as a contract between
the city and the employee. This policy may be changed at any time at the sole
discretion of the city.
(Res. 1996-01, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.33 EMPLOYEE POLICY.
   (A)   The following rules represent the city’s policy concerning substance
abuse and will be enforced uniformly with respect to all employees of the city
who perform duties which could result in bodily harm to themselves or another
person. Such duties would include operating city-owned vehicles and equipment,
firearms, life support and rescue equipment, hauling or working with hazardous
materials, working in confined spaces and other potentially unsafe or hazardous
duties related to an employee’s assigned duties.
   (B)   Said policy will cover full-time employees of the Wastewater Treatment
Department, Water Treatment Department, Street Department (Street, Sanitation
and Sewer), Fire Department and Police Department.
   (C)   Said policy includes the following rules.
      (1)   All employees are prohibited from being under the influence of
alcohol or illegal drugs during work hours.
      (2)   The sale, possession, transfer or purchase of illegal drugs on city
property or while performing city business is strictly prohibited. Such action
will be reported to appropriate enforcement officials.
      (3)   The use, sale or possession of an illegal drug or controlled
substance while on duty is cause for termination.
      (4)   Any employee who commits an unlawful act as it pertains to this
drug and alcohol policy, whether on or off city premises, or whose conduct
discredits the city in any way will be subject to discipline up to and
including discharge.
      (5)   No alcoholic beverage will be brought to or consumed on the
jobsite. Employees may be tested for alcohol, post-accident, random or for
cause, at the direction of the city. Anyone testing above 0.04 will be
considered positive.
      (6)   No prescription drug will be brought on city premises by any other
than the one for whom it is prescribed. Such drugs will be used only in the
manner, combination and quantity prescribed.
      (7)   Any employee whose off-duty abuse of alcohol or illegal or
prescription drugs results in excessive absenteeism or tardiness or is the
cause of accidents or poor work will be referred to an employee assistance
program for rehabilitation, and such employee will face termination if he or
she rejects that program.
      (8)   As a condition of employment, an employee will abide by the terms
stated in this section and will notify the city of any criminal drug statute
conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace not later than five days
after such conviction. Such a conviction will subject the employee to the same
disciplinary procedures as those employees who test positive under drug
screening procedures.
(Res. 1996-01, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.34 TESTING CONDITIONS.
   All employees will be required to submit to a drug screen test as a
condition of employment under the following circumstances.
   (A)   Each employee will be tested for drugs and alcohol:
      (1)   After a work-related accident;
      (2)   If he or she has been observed using a suspected prohibited
substance on the job;
      (3)   If he or she exhibits a severe and prolonged reduction in
performance; or
      (4)   If the city has other reasonable cause for testing him or her.
   (B)   The city may, at its discretion, conduct random drug testing of
employees at any time, with or without cause or suspicion, in order to assure
compliance with its drug-free workplace policy.
   (C)   An employee returning from a leave of absence will be required to
retest.
   (D)   An employee who fails or refuses to submit to testing when requested
will be subject to discipline, including termination.
(Res. 1996-01, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.35 EMPLOYEES TESTING POSITIVE.
   Employees who test positive are subject to immediate discipline, including
discharge, but may be allowed to continue employment on a conditional basis on
the following terms.
   (A)   The employee agrees to participate in counseling in a certified
rehabilitation program and successfully completes the program.
   (B)   The employee agrees to and does remain drug- and alcohol-free during
the conditional employment period.
   (C)   The employee agrees to routine periodic and unscheduled drug screen
testing to ensure that the employee remains drug- and alcohol-free.
   (D)   The cost of a rehabilitation program and subsequent drug tests will be
borne by the employee.
(Res. 1996-01, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.36 EMPLOYEES TAKING PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
   Employees taking prescription drugs must adhere to the following procedure:
   (A)   Notify the immediate supervisor prior to commencement of the work
shift and provide the supervisor with the name of the prescription drug and the
prescribing physician; and
   (B)   Carry the medication in the current prescription container.
(Res. 1996-01, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.37 TERMINATION.
   Discharge issues will be handled pursuant to Section III of the City
Personnel Policy Handbook.
(Res. 1996-01, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.38 PREEMPLOYMENT SCREENING.
   All applicants who are conditionally considered for employment and those
former employees who are to be reinstated for employment after a layoff or
leave of absence will, as a final step in the employment process, be required
to submit to a drug and alcohol screen test. If they refuse to consent to the
test, then employment will be denied. If the tests are positive, then
employment will be denied.
(Res. 1996-01, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.39 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this policy is February 5, 1996.
(Res. 1996-01, passed 2-5-1996)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY
§ 33.50 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that its drivers be free of substance
abuse and alcohol abuse. Consequently, the use of illegal drugs by drivers is
prohibited. Furthermore, drivers shall not use alcohol or engage in “prohibited
conduct” as defined in §
33.52 of this chapter.
   (B)   The overall goal of this policy is to ensure a drug- and alcohol-free
transportation environment and to reduce accidents, injuries and fatalities.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.51 SCOPE.
   This policy is not intended nor should it be construed as a contract between
the city and the employee. This policy may be changed at any time at the sole
discretion of the city.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.52 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   The following shall be considered PROHIBITED CONDUCT for the purposes
of this policy.
      (1)   No driver shall report for duty or remain on duty while having an
alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater.
      (2)   No driver shall be on duty or operate a commercial motor vehicle
while the driver possesses alcohol unless the alcohol is manifested and
transported as part of a shipment.
      (3)   No driver shall use alcohol while performing safety-sensitive
functions.
      (4)   No driver shall perform safety- sensitive functions within four
hours after using alcohol.
      (5)   No driver required to take a post- accident test shall use alcohol
for eight hours following the accident or until he or she undergoes a post-
accident alcohol test, whichever occurs first.
      (6)   No driver shall refuse to submit to a post-accident, a random, a
reasonable suspicion, a return-to-duty or a follow-up breath alcohol or urine
drug test.
      (7)   No driver shall report for duty or remain on duty when the driver
uses any controlled substance, except when such use is pursuant to the
instructions of a physician who has advised the driver that the substance does
not adversely affect the driver’s ability to operate a commercial motor
vehicle.
   (B)   If the city has actual knowledge or has reason to believe that a
driver has engaged in prohibited conduct, then the city may require the driver
to submit to drug or alcohol testing.
   (C)   If a driver engages in prohibited conduct, then the driver is not
qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle and shall be immediately removed
from service. The city may, in its discretion, keep the driver’s position open
at the request of the driver while such driver attempts to become requalified.
The city may also take action against the employee up to and including
termination.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.53 TESTING CONDITIONS.
   Pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation
(DOT), the city has implemented six circumstances for drug and alcohol tests:
   (A)   Preemployment testing;
   (B)   Post-accident testing;
   (C)   Random testing;
   (D)   Reasonable suspicion testing;
   (E)   Return-to-duty testing; and
   (F)   Follow-up testing.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.54 PREEMPLOYMENT TESTING.
   (A)   All applicants for driving positions must submit to urine drug tests.
A driver/applicant is not required to submit to urine drug tests if the city
can verify that the driver has participated in a valid drug testing program
within the preceding 30 days, and while participating in that program was
either tested within the past six months or participated in a random selection
program for the previous 12 months.
   (B)   In the event that federal, state or local officials conduct breath or
blood tests for the use of alcohol or urine tests for the use of controlled
substances following an accident, these tests shall be considered to meet the
requirements of division (A) above, provided that the tests conform to
applicable federal, state or local requirements. The employee will sign a
release allowing the city to obtain the test results from federal, state or
local officials.
   (C)   In the event that a driver is so seriously injured that the driver
cannot provide a urine or breath specimen at the time of the accident, the
driver must provide necessary authorization for the city to obtain hospital
records or other documents which would indicate whether there were controlled
substances or alcohol in the driver’s system at the time of the accident.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.55 POST-ACCIDENT TESTING.
   (A)   When a driver is involved in an accident where a fatality is involved,
the driver shall submit to post-accident drug and alcohol testing. When a
driver is involved in a recordable accident and receives a citation for a
moving violation arising from the accident, the driver also must submit to a
drug and alcohol test. Following any accident, the driver must contact the city
as soon as possible.
   (B)   The DOT requires that anytime a post- accident drug or alcohol test is
required, that it be performed as soon as possible following the accident. If
no breath collection can be made within eight hours, then attempts to collect a
breath sample shall cease. If no urine collection can be obtained for the
purpose of post-accident drug testing within 32 hours, then attempts to make
such collection shall cease.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.56 RANDOM TESTING.
   (A)   (1)   The city conducts random drug and alcohol testing. The city or
its agents will submit all drivers to a random selection system. The random
selection system provides an equal chance for each driver to be selected each
time that random selection occurs.
      (2)   Random selections will be reasonably spread throughout the year.
The city will drug test, at minimum, 50% of the average number of driver
positions in each calendar year. The city will select, at minimum, 25% of the
average number of driver positions for random alcohol testing. Random
selection, by its very nature, may result in drivers being selected in
successive selections or more than once a calendar year. Alternatively, some
drivers may not be selected in a calendar year.
   (B)   (1)   If a driver is selected at random for either drug or alcohol
testing, then a city official will notify the driver. Once notified, every
action the driver takes must lead to a collection.
      (2)   If the driver engages in conduct which does not lead to a
collection as soon as possible after notification, then such conduct may be
considered a refusal to test.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.57 REASONABLE SUSPICION TESTING.
   (A)   Reasonable suspicion for requiring a driver to submit to drug or
alcohol testing shall be deemed to exist when a driver manifests physical or
behavioral symptoms or reactions commonly attributed to the use of controlled
substances or alcohol.
   (B)   Such driver conduct must be witnessed by at least one supervisor.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.58 ALCOHOL TESTS.
   (A)   The city will perform alcohol tests using an evidential breath testing
device. The city may provide use of an evidential breath testing device through
a vendor or agent. The driver shall report to the site of an evidential breath
testing device as notified by the city. The evidential breath testing device
will be operated by a breath alcohol technician. The driver shall follow all
instructions given by the breath alcohol technician.
   (B)   All alcohol tests shall be performed just prior to, during or just
after duty.
   (C)   In the event that a driver, on the basis of the evidential breath
test, has a blood alcohol content of 0.02 to 0.0399, the driver shall be
removed from duty for 24 hours or until his or her next scheduled on-duty time,
whichever is longer. Applicants are not medically qualified until after the 24-
hour time frame expires.
   (D)   Drivers with tests indicating a blood alcohol concentration of 0.04 or
greater are considered to have prohibited conduct, which may result in
disciplinary action up to and including termination.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.59 DRUG URINALYSIS.
   (A)   Drug testing will be performed through urinalysis. Urinalysis will
test for the presence of drugs or metabolites of the following controlled
substances:
      (1)   Marijuana;
      (2)   Cocaine;
      (3)   Opiates;
      (4)   Amphetamines; and
      (5)   Phencyclidine (PCP).
   (B)   The urinalysis procedure starts with the collection of a urine
specimen. Urine specimens will be submitted to a SAMHSA-certified laboratory
for testing. As part of the collection process, the specimen provided will be
split into two vials, a primary vial and a secondary vial. The SAMHSA-certified
laboratory will perform initial screenings on all primary vials. In the event
that the primary specimen tests positive, a confirmation test of that specimen
will be performed before being reported by the laboratory to the Medical Review
Officer (MRO) as a positive.
   (C)   (1)   All laboratory results will be reported by the laboratory to an
MRO designated by the city.
      (2)   Negative test results shall be reported by the MRO to the city.
      (3)   Before reporting a positive test result to the city, the MRO will
attempt to contact the driver to discuss the test result. If the MRO is unable
to contact the driver directly, then the MRO will contact the city official
designated in advance by the city, who shall in turn contact the driver and
direct the driver to contact the MRO. Upon being so directed, the driver shall
contact the MRO immediately, or if after the MRO’s business hours and the MRO
is unavailable, at the start of the MRO’s next business day.
      (4)   In the MRO’s sole discretion, a determination will be made as to
whether a result is positive or negative.
   (D)   Pursuant to DOT regulations, individual test results for driver/
applicants and drivers will be released to the city and will be kept strictly
confidential unless consent for the release of the test results has been
obtained. Any individual who has submitted to drug testing in compliance with
this policy is entitled to receive the results of such testing upon timely
written request.
   (E)   Any individual testing positive may make a request of the MRO to have
the secondary vial tested. The driver may request that the secondary vial be
tested by a different SAMHSA-certified lab than that which tested the primary
specimen. The individual making the request for a test of the second specimen
must prepay all costs associated with the test. A request for the testing of a
second specimen is TIMELY if it is made to the MRO within 72 hours of the
individual being notified by the city of a positive test result.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.60 SUBSTANCE ABUSE EVALUATION; FOLLOW-UP TESTING.
   (A)   Any driver who engages in prohibited conduct shall be provided with
the names, addresses and telephone numbers of qualified substance abuse
professionals. If the driver desires to become requalified, then the driver
must be evaluated by a Substance Abuse Professional (SAP) and submit to any
treatment prescribed by the SAP. Following evaluation and treatment, if any, in
order to become requalified, the driver must submit to and successfully
complete a return-to-duty drug or alcohol test. Such driver is also subject to
follow-up testing.
   (B)   Follow-up testing is separate from and in addition to the city’s
reasonable suspicion, post- accident and random testing procedures. Follow-up
testing shall be on a random basis and in accordance with the instructions of
the Substance Abuse Professional. Follow-up testing may continue for a period
of up to 60 months following the driver’s return to duty. Not fewer than six
tests shall be performed in the first 12 months of follow-up testing.
   (C)   The cost of any SAP evaluation or prescribed treatment shall be borne
by the driver. The city does not guarantee or promise a position to the driver
should he or she regain qualified status.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.61 AUTHORIZATION FOR PREVIOUS TEST RECORDS.
   Within 14 days of performing a safety-sensitive function, federal
regulations require that the city obtain certain drug and alcohol testing
records from the driver’s previous employers for the previous two years. As a
condition to employment, the driver shall provide the city with a written
authorization for all previous employers within the past two years to release
such drug and alcohol testing records as are required under federal regulation.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.62 TRAINING FOR SUPERVISORS.
   The city shall ensure that supervisors designated to determine whether
reasonable suspicion exists to require a driver to undergo testing receive at
least 60 minutes of training on alcohol misuse and receive at least an
additional 60 minutes of training on controlled substances use. The training
shall cover the physical, behavioral, speech and performance indicators of
probable alcohol misuse and use of controlled substances.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.63 TRAINING AND INFORMING DRIVERS AND DRIVER/APPLICANTS.
   (A)   The city shall provide educational materials which explain the
training testing requirements, the consequences of violating the regulations
and the employer’s policies and procedures with respect to meeting these
requirements. The material supplied to drivers may include information on
additional employer policies with respect to the use or possession of alcohol
or controlled substances, for example, the consequences for a driver found to
have a specified alcohol or controlled substance level based on the employer’s
authority independent of hereof. The city shall ensure that each driver is
required to sign a statement certifying that he or she has received a copy of
such materials described in herein.
   (B)   If a driver/applicant has an alcohol test result between 0.02 and
0.0399, then he or she shall not be allowed to drive for 24 hours. The driver
shall be removed from safety-sensitive functions and the applicant is not
allowed to operate a commercial motor vehicle for 24 hours.
   (C)   The city must also ensure that no prior employer of the driver has
knowledge or records of a violation of the DOT alcohol rules within the
previous six months.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.64 REFUSAL TO TEST.
   (A)   Refusal to submit to the types of drug and alcohol tests employed by
the city will be grounds for refusal to hire driver/applicants and to terminate
the employment of existing drivers. A REFUSAL TO TEST is defined to be conduct
which would obstruct the proper administration of a test. A delay in providing
a urine or breath specimen could be considered a refusal.
   (B)   If a driver cannot provide a sufficient urine specimen or adequate
breath, then he or she will be evaluated by a physician of the city’s choice.
If the physician cannot find a legitimate medical explanation for the inability
to provide a specimen, either urine or breath, then it will be considered a
refusal to test. In that circumstance, the driver has violated one of the
prohibitions of this subchapter.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.65 CONSEQUENCES OF POLICY VIOLATION.
   Any driver who becomes unqualified or engages in prohibited conduct as set
forth herein may be subject to termination of employment.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 33.66 TERMINATION.
   All discharge issues will be handled pursuant to Section III of the City
Personnel Policy Handbook.
(Res. 1996-02, passed 2-5-1996)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Returned check fee
   
34.02   Acceptance of credit card payments by city
   
34.03   Issuance and use of credit cards by city
   
34.04   Authorized expenses for municipal business
Warrants
   
34.15   Warrant issuance
   
34.16   Issuance order approval
   
34.17   Audit and issuance of claims
   
34.18   Prerequisites for claim approval
   
34.19   Claim approval
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 RETURNED CHECK FEE.
   The fee for a returned check shall be $27.50.
(Res. 2005-26, passed 8-15-2005)
§ 34.02 ACCEPTANCE OF CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS BY CITY.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to accept credit cards in the
conduct of monetary transactions.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is requesting that this fee be rescinded, as this
fee has kept some people from using their credit card to pay for services,
fines or other fees due to this fee being charged by the city, and also, to
date, the fees have not been sufficient to pay the processing fees charged by
the credit card company. The fees charged by the credit card company should now
be handled as the cost of operating and should now be absorbed by the city.
(Res. 2007-03, passed 4-2-2007; Res. 2007-20, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 34.03 ISSUANCE AND USE OF CREDIT CARDS BY CITY.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make applications for
credit cards to be used by the office of the Mayor, the City Clerk-Treasurer,
the Street Department, the Water Department, the Wastewater Treatment
Department, the Police Department and the Fire Department for official city
business.
   (B)   Credit cards issued to the office of the Mayor and the Police
Department shall have a maximum limit of $5,000 each. Credit cards issued to
the Street Department, which includes the City Clerk- Treasurer, the Water
Department, the Wastewater Treatment Department and the Fire Department, shall
all have a maximum limit of $2,500 each.
Superintendent
   (C)   (1)   City officials and employees shall use such credit cards for the
purpose of city travel, educational expenses and public purchases, including:
         (a)   Hotel or motel rooms;
         (b)   Meals;
         (c)   Fees or costs associated with attending schools, conventions,
seminars and the like;
         (d)   Gasoline, if using a city-owned vehicle;
         (e)   Supplies;
         (f)   Materials; and
         (g)   Small tools and minor equipment.
      (2)   Items in divisions (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b) and (C)(1)(c) above require
approval by the Mayor.
      (3)   Excluded charges include alcoholic beverages, room service, valet
parking, nonbusiness telephone calls, in-room movies and cash advances.
   (D)   Accounts payable vouchers filed in connection with the use of credit
shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer for processing and shall be properly
itemized and documented before being approved and paid. The credit card will be
paid in full every billing cycle. Improperly itemized and documented items
shall be the personal responsibility of the individual user.
(Res. 2014-23, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 34.04 AUTHORIZED EXPENSES FOR MUNICIPAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   Appropriations for municipal business authorized. The Common Council
is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the General Fund of
the city to pay the expenses of or to reimburse city officials for expenses
incurred in the business of the city. Such expenses may include, but are not
necessarily limited to, the rental of meeting places, meals, travel, lodging,
decorations and expenses incurred in interviewing job applicants, in promoting
industrial development and any other expenses of a civic or governmental nature
deemed to be in the interest of the city. Mileage reimbursement shall be
computed at the rate of $0.545 per mile.
   (B)   Prior approval. No expenses shall be incurred under this section
without prior authorization of the Mayor, and all claims for such expenses
shall be approved by the Mayor and allowed in the regular manner before
payment. City personnel are not authorized to incur expenses for alcoholic
beverages or personal entertainment.
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall be effective as of January 1, 2018.
(Res. 1998-06, passed 4-6-1998; Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-2-2018)
WARRANTS
§ 34.15 WARRANT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Money may be paid out of the city’s treasury only on warrant of the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Unless provided otherwise by state law, the Clerk-Treasurer may draw a
warrant against a fund of the city only if an appropriation has been made for
that purpose, the appropriation is not exhausted, and:
      (1)   The warrant is for a salary fixed by statute or ordinance;
      (2)   He or she is ordered to issue a warrant under §
34.16 of this chapter;
      (3)   The warrant is for a claim allowed under §
34.19 of this chapter;
      (4)   The warrant is for payment of a judgment that the city must pay; or
      (5)   The warrant is for the interest due on city bonds.
(Prior Code, § 3.12.010)
§ 34.16 ISSUANCE ORDER APPROVAL.
   (A)   The City Board or Common Council may order the issuance of warrants
for payment of money by the city only at a meeting of the Board or Common
Council.
   (B)   A city officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office
pursuant to I.C. 36-4-8-3.
(Prior Code, § 3.12.020)
§ 34.17 AUDIT AND ISSUANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may audit a claim against the city by examining,
under oath, any officer, agent or employee of the city or any other person.
When acting under this section, the Clerk-Treasurer has the same powers as the
Common Council in summoning and examining witnesses. I.C. 36-4-8-2 states that
warrants are to be drawn by the City Fiscal Officer. I.C. 36-4-10-2 provides
that the City Controller is the Fiscal Officer of second-class cities, and that
the City Clerk-Treasurer is the Fiscal Officer of third-class cities.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may not issue warrants to pay the claim, and he or
she shall notify the proper department of the reasons for his or her refusal to
pay the claim, if the Clerk-Treasurer finds that:
      (1)   The claim includes an item for which no appropriation has been
made;
      (2)   There is not a sufficient balance for payment of the claim in the
proper fund; or
      (3)   The claim should not be approved for any reason.
(Prior Code, § 3.12.030)
§ 34.18 PREREQUISITES FOR CLAIM APPROVAL.
   A warrant for payment of a claim against the city may be issued only if the
claim is:
   (A)   Itemized and certified under I.C. 5-11-10-1;
   (B)   Approved by the officer or person receiving the goods or services;
   (C)   Filed with the Clerk-Treasurer;
   (D)   Audited and approved by the Clerk- Treasurer; and
   (E)   Allowed by the Common Council or the City Board, which has
jurisdiction over allowance of claim.
(Prior Code, § 3.12.050)
§ 34.19 CLAIM APPROVAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare for approval by the Common
Council of the city a separate claims register/docket listing claims for
purchases of all durable capital goods in an amount in excess of $5,000.
   (B)   The splitting of invoices for the purchase of capital goods in order
to avoid the effect of division (A) above is hereby prohibited. In the event
the Clerk- Treasurer believes that any employee has split invoices in order to
attempt to defeat the effect of division (A) above, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
refer the matter to the City Board of Public Works and Safety for disciplinary
action.
   (C)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare for approval by the City Board
of Public Works and Safety a separate claims register listing all other claims.
   (D)   The jurisdiction and authority to approve and allow a claim for
payment of expenses is divided between and vested in the Common Council of the
city and the City Board of Public Works and Safety, accordingly.
   (E)   The decision of the City Clerk-Treasurer regarding the assignment of
claims to the separate claims requested for approval shall be controlling.
   (F)   The City Clerk-Treasurer, as the City Fiscal Officer, may make the
claim payments in advance of Board allowance for the following kinds of
expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
Government, its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses which must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (G)   Payments of expenses must be supported by a fully-itemized invoice or
bill certified by the City Clerk-Treasurer, and the City Board of Public Works
and Safety, having jurisdiction over the allowance of claims, shall review and
allow the claim at its next regular or special meeting following the
preapproved payment of the expense.
   (H)   Capital expenses shall include, but not be limited to, the purchase of
land, buildings, other improvements, machinery, vehicles, equipment and other
capital needs.
(Prior Code, § 3.12.040) (Ord. 1455, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. 2013-11, passed 10-
7-2013)
CHAPTER 35: FUNDS
Section
City Administration Funds
   
35.01   Rainy Day Fund
   
35.02   Riverboat Fund
   
35.03   Sanitation Fund
   
35.04   Debt Service Fund
   
35.05   Hartford City Government Channel Fund
   
35.06   American Rescue Plan Act Fund
City Development and Improvement Funds
   
35.20   General Improvement Fund
   
35.21   City Revolving Loan Fund (Economic Development Fund)
   
35.22   City Industrial Development Fund
   
35.23   Industrial Development Revolving Loan Fund
   
35.24   Building Inspection and Code Enforcement Fund
   
35.25   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
35.26   Non-Reverting Park Improvement Fund
   
35.27   Non-Reverting Pool Operating Fund
   
35.28   City Pool Maintenance and Capital Improvement Cumulative Fund
Public Safety and Public Services Funds
   
35.40   Motor Vehicle Highway Fund—Unallocated (201)
   
35.41   Motor Vehicle Highway Fund—Allocated (271)
   
35.42   MVH Restricted Fund 203
   
35.43   Abandoned Vehicle Fund
   
35.44   Fire Pension Fund
   
35.45   Police Pension Fund
   
35.46   Building or Remodeling, Firefighting and Police Radio Equipment Fund
   
35.47   LOIT Public Safety Fund
   
35.48   Canine/Police Equipment Donation Fund
   
35.49   Fire Report Fund
   
35.50   Accident Report Fund
   
35.51   Non-Reverting Drug Awareness Resistance Education (D.A.R.E.) Fund
Other Funds
   
35.65   Separate fund for receiving and disbursing Tax Increment Financing
District funds
   
35.66   Separate fund for receiving and disbursing Blackford County Drainage
Board funds
   
35.67   Funds generated through interlocal agreements
   
35.68   Other funds reestablished
CITY ADMINISTRATION FUNDS
§ 35.01 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this special revenue fund is to account for
transfers of unused and unencumbered funds under I.C. 36-1-8-5.
      (2)   I.C. 36-1-8-5(b) states that whenever the purposes of a tax levy
have been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance remains in the fund,
the fiscal body of the city shall order the balance of the fund to be
transferred to the General Fund or Rainy Day Fund of the municipality, as
provided in I.C. 36-1-8-5.1, unless a statue provides that it be transferred
otherwise. In any fiscal year, a city may transfer not more than 10% of the
city’s annual budget for that fiscal year to the Rainy Day Fund. The Fund
should be established by ordinance, and the ordinance should state the purposes
and sources of funding for the Fund (I.C. 36-1-8-5). Transfers to the Rainy Day
Fund must be made after the last day of the year before March 1 of the
subsequent calendar year per I.C. 36-1-8-5.1.
      (3)   Supplemental distributions of CAGIT, COIT and CREDIT under I.C. 36-
1-8-5.1 must also be deposited in the Rainy Day Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.86.010)
   (B)   Receipts.
 
360 Miscellaneous revenues
361 Interest of investments
390 Other financing sources
391 Interfund operating transfers
395 Sales of investments
 
(Prior Code, § 3.86.020)
   (C)   Disbursements. The fiscal body should determine by ordinance the use
of the Fund, which could be for any purpose permitted by state statutes for
other revenues of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.86.030)
   (D)   Appropriations. The Rainy Day Fund is subject to the same
appropriation process as other funds which receive tax money. The Department of
Local Government Finance may not reduce the actual or maximum permissible levy
of a city as a result of a balance on the Rainy Day Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.86.040)
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 35.02 RIVERBOAT FUND.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Each city which receives tax revenue under I.C. 4-33-12-6, I.C. 4-
33-13 or an agreement to share a city’s or county’s part of the tax revenue may
establish a Riverboat Fund. Money in the Fund may be used for any legal or
corporate purpose of the city.
      (2)   The Riverboat Fund shall be administered by the Clerk-Treasurer,
and the expenses of administering the Fund shall be paid from money in the
Fund. Money in the Fund not currently needed to meet the obligations of the
Fund may be invested. Interest which accrues from these investments shall be
deposited in the Fund.
      (3)   Money in the Fund at the end of a particular fiscal year does not
revert to the city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.88.010)
   (B)   Receipts.
 
335    State shared tax distribution
335.18 Wagering tax distribution
338    Local government shared revenue
360    Miscellaneous revenues
361    Interest on investments
390    Other financing sources
395    Sale of investments
 
(Prior Code, § 3.88.020)
   (C)   Disbursements. As stated previously, money in the Fund may be expended
for any purpose permitted by state statutes for other revenues of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.88.030)
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 35.03 SANITATION FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. A fund is hereby established, to be known as the
Sanitation Fund, and shall be appropriated by the city to partially or wholly
fund the budget of the Sanitation Department of the city, including, but not
limited to, salaries, wages, operating expenses, equipment purchases and
maintenance for the Department.
(Prior Code, § 3.47.010)
   (B)   Use. The Fund shall be composed of the user fees prescribed in
division (C) below.
(Prior Code, § 3.47.020)
   (C)   Fees.
      (1)   (a)   A sanitation fee is hereby established which shall be
assessed as a base fee rate in the amount of $10.50 per user per month. A user,
for the purposes of this section, is provided by the city.
         (b)   If two or more businesses located within the same structure are
owned and operated by the same person or his or her spouse, then the businesses
shall be considered a single user. If more than one apartment or other business
exists within a structure or mobile home park which has one water meter, then
the number of users shall be based upon the total number of apartments or
businesses and the Clerk-Treasurer shall determine the number of users.
         (c)   Any person who believes that the Clerk-Treasurer has erred in
assessing the number of users per water meter may appeal the decision to the
Board of Works within 60 days of the Clerk-Treasurer’s determination, otherwise
the right to appeal the determination is waived.
      (2)   (a)   The base fee rate, for the purposes of this section, refers
to the sanitation fee assessed to each residential and small business customer,
and the base rate is limited to two 30-gallon bags or cans of trash per week.
         (b)   Additional 30-gallon bags or cans will be picked up with a
permit attached to each bag or can. The permit fee for each 30-gallon bag or
can shall be $1.
         (c)   Larger items such as furniture, bedding, televisions and the
like shall require a permit, with fees as follows.
Item Permit Fee
Item                                                   Permit Fee
Box springs                                            $15
Carpet, construction debris and other items not specifically set out herein
shall be appraised by the Sanitation Supervisor
Chair                                                  $10
Mattress                                               $15
Sofa, love seat or other settee for two or more people $15
Television, larger than 30 inches                      $10
Television, 30 inches or less                          $5
 
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, the permit tag shall be in the
form of a four and one- fourth-inch by five and one-half-inch tag that shall
bear the customer’s name, address, fee and type of article permitted. The
permit tag shall be purchased at the Utility Office. All permit forms will be
serially numbered, and a duplicate shall be retained in the office for records
management.
      (4)   Extra bags, cans and large items which do not have permit tags will
not be collected by the Sanitation Department. Items not collected must be
removed from public view and must not be placed for pickup until permits are
obtained. Persons leaving unpermitted items on the curb past pickup day may be
cited for creating a public nuisance.
      (5)   Sanitation crews may leave a printed notice advising the customer
of these rules.
(Prior Code, § 3.47.030)
   (D)   Commercial rate. In order to equalize the sanitation fee by each, the
Sanitation Department shall determine which businesses require extraordinary or
excessive services. The Sanitation Department shall offer to the businesses a
pickup service for its trash and garbage at a rate of $52.50 per month, and the
businesses may elect to use city services or to hire private haulers in the
event they do not wish to use city services.
(Prior Code, § 3.47.060)
   (E)   Monthly fees. The fee for residential customers shall be established
at $20.10 per month. The fee for businesses shall be established at $68.50 per
month.
   (F)   Yard waste and leaf collection rules and fees.
      (1)   Tree limbs/brush for curbside collection shall not exceed a volume
of five cubic yards. Tree limbs/brush shall be prepared for collection
according to currently-promulgated and in-force rules and regulations
established by the head of the Sanitation Department. A minimum fee of $5 per
cubic yard shall be charged for the collection of each cubic yard of tree
limbs/brush in excess of five cubic yards. An additional fee of $40 per hour
will be added for every hour exceeding one hour of actual time required for
collection. The fees authorized herein may be suspended in the event of debris
from natural disasters, such as ice storms, windstorms, tornados and the like,
for a time specified by the Mayor or the Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (2)   During the months of October and November, a fee of $1 shall be
assessed and charged to the utility bills of residential customers.
(Prior Code, § 3.47.035)
   (G)   Additional yard waste and leaf collection rules and fees.
      (1)   Anytime that customers of the Sanitation Utility deposit tree
limbs/brush for curbside collection by the Sanitation Utility and said tree
limbs/brush exceeds in amount five cubic yards or said tree limbs/brush is not
prepared by the customer for collection in a manner required by the rules and
regulations currently in force, a minimum fee of $5.15 per cubic yard over the
five cubic yards shall be paid by the customer prior to collection. In
addition, a fee of $46.35 per hour shall be paid by the customer for every
additional hour over one hour of actual time spent on the collection of limbs/
brush. The aforementioned fees may be suspended for the disposal of debris from
natural disasters, such as ice storms, wind storms, tornados and the like, for
a specified period of time set by the Mayor or the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
      (2)   A fee of $2.32 shall be assessed to all residential customers of
the Sanitation Utility on the November utility bill. The assessed fee is for
the curbside collection of leaves.
   (H)   Escrow account for repair and replacement of equipment. Revenues
generated by the sanitation fee shall be deposited by the Clerk-Treasurer in a
separate and distinct fund and shall be appropriated from time to time by the
Common Council to provide for sanitation purposes only. Per month, $1,500 of
said funds shall be placed in an escrow account and used for the sole purpose
of the replacement of equipment or the emergency repair of equipment required
by the Sanitation Department after lawfully appropriated by the Council. All
fees collected and deposited in the Sanitation Fund shall be used for
Sanitation Department expenses and for expenses incurred in the collection and
disposal of solid and organic wastes.
(Prior Code, § 3.47.040)
   (I)   Placement of refuse collection truck for customer use.
(Prior Code, § 3.47.070)
   (J)   Late fee. All rates and charges not paid when due are hereby declared
to be delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the rates and charges shall thereupon
attach thereto. The time at which all rates and charges are due is fixed at 15
days after the date of mailing the bill.
   (K)   Delinquent fees and penalties as liens. Delinquent charges for
Sanitation Department user fee charges, rates, services, applied penalties and
recording fees constitute a lien upon the property and may be collected in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23, as amended.
   (L)   Violations, enforcement and penalties. Failure to pay Sanitation
Department user fees and charges when due shall constitute a violation of this
section, which shall be enforced by the city and such person as the city may
appoint for such purpose, which shall also include the cost of recovery,
including attorney fees, other costs of collection and recording fees.
(Ord. 1208, passed 7-18-1988; Ord. 1276, passed 12-4-1989; Ord. 1310, passed
12-31-1990; Ord. 1311, passed 3-4-1991; Ord. 1994-1395, passed 12-5-1994; Ord.
2003-15, passed 12-1-2003; Ord. 2011-01, passed 3-7-2011; Ord. 2012-06, passed
3-5-2012; Ord. 2012-17, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2014-03, passed 2-3-2014; Ord.
2019-13, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-09, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 35.04 DEBT SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   Establishment and use. There is hereby established a fund, to be known
as the Debt Service Fund, to be utilized and appropriated by the Common Council
of the city for the purpose of retiring the indebtedness incurred pursuant to
certain lease- purchase agreements heretofore authorized by the Council between
the city and the City Municipal Building Corporation for the purpose of the
acquisition of the current city building for the purpose of housing city
administrative and utility offices and the acquisition and construction of a
fire station on the site of the old city building at 315-317 West Washington
Street.
(Prior Code, § 3.48.010)
   (B)   Sources. The Fund shall be comprised of revenues derived from a tax
levy in an amount to be determined by the State Board of Tax Commissioners in
an amount sufficient to retire the indebtedness incurred as a result of the
lease-purchases, and which will be in addition to the current frozen property
tax levy, plus any payments made pursuant to interlocal agreement or sublease
of any portion of the fire station and city building, plus any other source
permitted by statute or ordinance as authorized by the Council, which includes,
but is not limited to, the rent to be received for the portion of the city
building occupied by the City Water Utility and Sewage Utility and the lease
payments made by Jackson, Washington and Licking Townships and by the Town of
Shamrock Lakes for the housing of their fire equipment.
(Prior Code, § 3.48.020)
   (C)   Property tax levy. A Debt Service Fund property tax levy is hereby
authorized and established. The Council shall establish the amount of the levy
when adopting the annual general property tax levy budget of the city in an
amount sufficient to fund the lease-purchase.
(Prior Code, § 3.48.030)
(Ord. 1118, passed 7-31-1986; Ord. 1168, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 35.05 HARTFORD CITY GOVERNMENT CHANNEL FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Hartford City Government Channel Fund
pursuant to the provisions and authorization of I.C. 36-1-3-2, I.C. 36-1-3-3(a)
and (b), I.C. 36-1-3-4(b)(1) and (b)(2) and I.C. 36-4-6-13(b) et seq.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may accept funds in donation from
contributors constituting a grant or sponsorship of a specific program or
presentation aired over the city government channel or in financial support of
the general operations of said channel. Any grants or fees in sponsorship of
programming, donations of money or earnings received in the course of
operations of the city government channel shall be deposited in the Hartford
City Government Channel Fund.
   (C)   (1)   Funds accrued and deposited under the provisions of division (B)
above may be allocated and spent by the Board of Public Works and Safety for
any purpose determined by said Board to be properly and legitimately necessary
for the operation, broadcast, equipment, professional services or any other
expenses incurred by the city government channel, and may be so allocated and
spent by said Board without appropriation or approval by the Common Council
when properly invoiced and established as services, products or other
operational costs duly performed, rendered or received in the operation of the
city government channel.
      (2)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall establish an estimated
budget of income and expenditures for each calendar year, and the Clerk-
Treasurer shall record all receipts and expenditures of the Fund and maintain
said records in the same manner as provided by statute for other municipal
funds and expenditures.
   (D)   Funds accrued and deposited under the provisions of division (B) above
may be used for the expressed purpose of broadcasting, program production,
professional services or other legitimated expenses incurred by operation of
the city government channel and for no other purpose.
   (E)   (1)   No funds accrued under the provisions of this section shall be
employed to support the broadcast or dissemination of any religious
organization or belief or any candidate for public office or political
organization, nor shall said funds be employed to broadcast any program content
which is prohibited for over-the-air broadcast by federal or state statutes and
regulations.
      (2)   Any accreditation or recognition of a sponsoring group during
broadcasts over the city government channel shall only state the name of the
donor.
      (3)   No commercial message or messages advocating an active effort by
the viewers shall be permitted to be broadcast at any time.
   (F)   It is the expressed intent of the Fund herein established to provide
for the broadcast of factual events and information pertaining to governmental
and community affairs. Advocacy of any position or action is expressly
prohibited when the broadcast thereof is in conflict with federal or state
statutes or requires the expenditure of funds accrued under the terms of
division (B) above.
(Res. 2002-07, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 35.06 AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT FUND.
   Consistent with State Examiner Directive 2021-1, a fund is established to
receive proceeds from the American Rescue Act.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-3-2021)
CITY DEVELOPMENT AND IMPROVEMENT FUNDS
§ 35.20 GENERAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment and use. Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-17-1 et
seq., a fund known as the General Improvement Fund is established, which shall
be used to construct, repair or improve streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs,
gutters or sewers.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.010)
   (B)   Sources. The Fund shall consist of the following:
      (1)   The special assessments collected under this section for benefits
to property from constructing, repairing or improving streets, alleys,
sidewalks, curbs, gutters and sewers;
      (2)   Any appropriations made from the General Fund of the city or from
taxes levied by the City Common Council for the purpose of constructing,
repairing or improving streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs, gutters and sewers;
and
      (3)   Special assessments collected by the City Common Council under any
provisions other than this section may not be deposited in the Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.020)
   (C)   Tax levy. The City Common Council shall levy an annual tax for the
benefit and use of the General Improvement Fund in an amount set annually by
the Common Council on the net taxable valuation of property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.030)
   (D)   Limitations on Fund. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, the aggregate sum which may be appropriated and levied under this
section, including emergency appropriations as authorized by I.C. 36-9-17, may
not exceed the equivalent of $0.50 on each $100 net taxable valuation of
property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.040)
   (E)   Disbursements. Disbursements may be made from the General Improvement
Fund for any purpose only if benefits are to be:
      (1)   Assessed against the properties benefitted in the manner provided
by the street and sewer improvement statutes of the state statutes; and
      (2)   Collected in the manner provided by law for the collection of
Barrett Law assessments under I.C. 36-9-36 through 36-9-39, with all interest
and penalties paid into the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.050)
   (F)   Letting of contracts; assessments.
      (1)   Contracts for public improvements authorized by this section shall
be let according to the state code provisions authorizing the city to make and
finance public improvements.
      (2)   As soon as any contract for the construction of a public
improvement under this section has been let, the city shall:
         (a)   Carefully compute the entire cost of the project, including
payments made and to be made to the contractor, and all incidental costs,
expenses and damages paid and incurred according to law; and
         (b)   Prepare and make out an assessment roll listing the assessments
against the properties benefitted.
      (3)   In determining and fixing the amount of assessments, the giving of
notice of assessments, the holding of public hearings and the making of final
determinations, subject to the right of appeal from those determinations, the
city is governed by the street improvement statutes of the State Code.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.060)
   (G)   Payments.
      (1)   Assessments made under this section are liens on the properties
benefitted from the time of the letting of the contract and shall be collected
in the manner provided by law for the collection of Barrett Law assessments.
However, the City Common Council shall fix a period of not more than five years
within which the assessments shall be paid. Any property owner liable for an
assessment may elect to pay it in annual installments over the period of time
fixed by the City Common Council by executing a waiver in the manner provided
by applicable provisions of the State Code.
      (2)   All payments of the assessments and all payments made by the city
for public improvements under this section shall be made into the General
Improvement Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.070)
(Ord. 677, passed - -1965; Ord. 1010, passed 3-2-1981)
§ 35.21 CITY REVOLVING LOAN FUND (ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FUND).
   (A)   Purposes.
      (1)   To provide a local source of revenue for economic development;
      (2)   To provide local funds to encourage and assist the location of new
jobs, business, industry and retail establishments in the community; and
      (3)   To provide local funds to assist the expansion and preservation of
existing jobs, business, industry and retail establishments.
(Prior Code, § 3.60.010)
   (B)   Composition of Revolving Loan Fund Board.
      (1)   The Revolving Loan Fund Board shall consist of seven members.
      (2)   The members and their terms shall be as follows:
         (a)   The Mayor of the city during his or her term of office;
         (b)   A member of the Common Council, to be appointed annually for a
one-year term by the President of the Common Council;
         (c)   Two citizen members, to be appointed by the City Economic
Development Commission for four-year staggered terms; one member shall be from
the business community and one member shall be from the industrial community;
         (d)   Two members from local financial institutions, to be appointed
by the City Economic Development Commission for four-year staggered terms,
provided, however, that each member shall be from a different financial
institution;
         (e)   A member of the City Economic Development Commission, appointed
by the Commission annually for a one-year term; and
         (f)   Four-year staggered terms shall continue in the same progression
for the purpose of future appointments and terms as if they had been appointed
pursuant to the previous ordinance, which is Ord. 1099, passed 10-11-1985.
(Prior Code, § 3.60.030)
   (C)   Duties of Revolving Loan Fund Board.
      (1)   The Revolving Loan Fund Board is charged with sole responsibility
for the expenditure of loan applications. The Board shall create a procedure
for receiving and reviewing loan applications. The Board shall approve all
documents to be used in connection with the loans, including, but not limited
to, loan agreements, security agreements, promissory notes, financing
statements, personal guarantees and any other documents. The Board shall be
solely responsible for determining the amount of any loan, repayment terms,
interest rates and security for the loans based upon the criteria set forth in
division (D) below.
      (2)   The Board shall charge a one-time loan processing fee equal to 1%
of any loan, to be paid by the borrower at closing. This fee may be added to
the principal balance in extraordinary cases if the Board makes a determination
that it is necessary and reasonable. The proceeds from these fees shall be used
to offset administrative costs associated with the Revolving Loan Fund program.
The Board may also charge each applicant for any recording fees, abstracting or
title search fees, legal fees, closing costs and application fees incurred in
connection with the loan. The Board shall make a written policy with respect to
the charging of fees provided for in this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 3.60.040)
   (D)   Administration.
      (1)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the financial
management of the Revolving Loan Fund, including, but not limited to, the
proper accounting of funds in the manner prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts and Tax Commissioners and the investment of surplus funds. All surplus
funds shall be invested in interest-bearing accounts until the time as the
Revolving Loan Fund Board directs their expenditure. The Board may provide
additional technical support to the Clerk- Treasurer.
      (2)   The Revolving Loan Fund Board may hire and pay consultants,
including, but not limited to, attorneys, grants persons and certified public
accountants.
      (3)   The Director of Redevelopment and Environmental Affairs shall act
as Administrator of the Revolving Loan Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.60.060)
   (E)   Funding and expenditures.
      (1)   (a)   Funds for the Revolving Loan Fund shall be derived from the
following sources:
            1.   Tax revenues as designated by the Common Council;
            2.   Loan repayments from outstanding loans;
            3.   Interest income from loans;
            4.   State and federal grants, provided, however, that the
Revolving Loan Fund Board shall determine whether to accept these grants,
taking into consideration the administrative requirements;
            5.   Income derived from money loaned which was borrowed from
private financial
institutions;
            6.   Donations; and
            7.   Any other source of revenue appropriated by the Common
Council.
         (b)   Payments in lieu of taxes made by borrowers outside the city
limits, pursuant to division (F) below.
         (c)   No funds may be expended by the Board until lawfully
appropriated by the Common Council of the city.
      (2)   Expenditures from the Revolving Loan Fund shall include the
following:
         (a)   Low interest loans to industries, retail businesses and service
businesses made in conjunction with loans made by private lenders or private
equity;
         (b)   Historic preservation loans to industries, retail businesses and
service businesses made in conjunction with loans made by private lenders or
private equity;
         (c)   Housing rehabilitation loans;
         (d)   Eligible community, economic and rehabilitation and preservation
activities, as defined pursuant to 24 C.F.R. §§ 570.201, 570.202 and 570.204;
         (e)   Local matching funds for obtaining state or federal grants for
community and economic development;
         (f)   Administrative and professional costs associated with community
and economic development activities;
         (g)   Loan guarantees of private funds, provided, however, that the
Board shall establish a policy regarding the amount of the guarantees relative
to available projected funds. In no event shall the loan guarantees be
construed to grant the Revolving Loan Fund Board the authority, nor shall the
Board attempt, in any way, to encumber unappropriated funds of the city; and
         (h)   The acquisition of land and construction of buildings for
industrial or retail purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3.60.020)
   (F)   Loan criteria. Any loan applicant must be a business or industry
located within the city limits of the city or the county. In the event the loan
applicant is outside of the city limits of the city, but is located within the
county, the following procedure must be used before making any loan.
      (1)   The City Economic Development Commission must make a finding that
the applicant’s project is economically beneficial to the city before the
Revolving Loan Fund Board approves the loan.
      (2)   The loan applicant must sign a written agreement providing for
payment in lieu of taxes equal to the difference between the total tax rate of
the city and the total tax rate of the City of Montpelier, depending upon the
location of the project. The agreement shall remain in full force and effect
during the term of the loan or until the time as the project is annexed into
the city.
      (3)   The Board may establish target areas or target businesses or
industries to receive priority of loan consideration.
      (4)   A residential property owner may be a loan applicant if funds for
housing rehabilitation or historic preservation are available.
      (5)   Job creation requirements and other loan criteria will be
established by the Revolving Loan Fund Board and will be based upon the
following:
         (a)   The number of jobs created or retained, the types of jobs
created and the ratio of loan fund dollars to jobs created;
         (b)   The ratio of loan fund dollars to private investment funds,
including loans from the private sector and owner equity, the growth potential
of the business, the generation of tax revenue and tax assessment base to
further city long-term growth;
         (c)   The need of loan funds to make the project economically
feasible;
         (d)   Each loan application shall be evaluated on its own merits
without regard to other loans; and
         (e)   The maximum amount the Revolving Loan Fund may loan to any one
business or industrial project 50% of the then-current balance of the Fund.
      (6)   Additional loan criteria shall be developed by the Revolving Loan
Fund Board. The Council hereby adopts by reference the Revolving Loan Fund
Plan, revised December 31, 1991, which is made a part herein as if set out in
full.
(Prior Code, § 3.60.050)
(Ord. 1992-1341, passed 4-6-1992; Ord. 2000-1, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 35.22 CITY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of Fund. There is hereby established a City Industrial
Development Fund pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-13-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 3.52.010)
   (B)   Establishment of Grant Fund. There is hereby established a City
Industrial Development Grant Fund pursuant to I.C. 36-7-13-4.
(Prior Code, § 3.52.020)
   (C)   Administration of Grant Fund. The City Industrial Development Grant
Fund shall be received, administered and disbursed by the City Fiscal Officer
according to the directions of the City Economic Development Commission for the
exclusive purpose of economic development and related activities, and shall be
received, administered and disbursed by the Fiscal Officer of the city strictly
in compliance with the provisions of state law.
(Prior Code, § 3.52.030)
   (D)   Revolving use of funds for economic development. Any funds generated
and returned to the city by the City Industrial Development Fund, the City
Industrial Development Grant Fund or any other activities authorized by law and
carried out by the City Economic Development Commission shall be spent and
applied to the program and project for which the funds were created.
(Prior Code, § 3.52.040)
(Ord. 1056, passed 6-2-1984)
§ 35.23 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT REVOLVING LOAN FUND.
   (A)   Description of Fund.
      (1)   The City Economic Development Commission, through its Industrial
Development Revolving Loan Fund Board, is hereby authorized to obtain loans
from local financial institutions and to incur bonded indebtedness in the
amount of up to $240,000.
      (2)   The funds are to be drawn down in conjunction with the draw-down of
state grant funds and federal grant funds applied for by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.64.010)
   (B)   Delegation of responsibilities.
      (1)   The Mayor, Board of Public Works and Safety and Economic
Development Commission are hereby authorized to make application for federal
grant funds in the amount of up to $400,000 to further supplement the
Industrial Development Loan Fund project. The Common Council authorizes the
indebtedness as being within and applicable to the city’s debt ceiling limits
as established by statute.
      (2)   All of the funds, when recaptured in the form of the repayment of
loans made by the Industrial Development Revolving Loan Fund Board as part of
the project, shall be used to retire the aforesaid indebtedness and to make
further industrial development loans as provided for in executed grant
agreements, ordinances and state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3.64.020)
(Ord. 1111, passed 5-5-1986)
§ 35.24 BUILDING INSPECTION AND CODE ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Building Inspection and Code
Enforcement Fund, wherein the Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and required to
deposit all inspection fees charged and collected and all penalties assessed
and paid to the city in the course of enforcement and administration of the
aforesaid codes.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and required to pay from the
funds deposited and accumulated within the Building Inspection and Code
Enforcement Fund hereby established all charges, costs and fees owing to the
inspector or inspectors conducting the inspections under the aforesaid codes
and any administrative costs and incidental expenses accruing to inspections
and enforcements of the aforesaid codes and to travel and transportation.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and may pay the costs of expert
opinions required in enforcement of the codes, consulting fees and legal
services accruing to enforcement on the condition and prerequisite that no
claims are pending or anticipated which fall within the definitions of required
payments as stated in division (B) above.
   (D)   Any and all expenditures authorized or required by this section are so
authorized, required and enabled without any additional appropriation of funds
approved by the Common Council and without adoption of any itemized budget for
said hereby established Fund.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall require all claimants to maintain proper
records and submit claims required by law and the Board of Public Works and
Safety, and shall maintain detailed records of receipts into the Fund herein
established and the expenditures therefrom.
(Res. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 35.25 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   Pursuant to Pub. Law No. 44-1984, being I.C. 36-9-14.5, a
Cumulative Capital Development Fund is established for the city for the years
1985, 1986 and 1987, with the tax rate per $100 assessed valuation beginning at
$0.05 in the first year then increasing to $0.10 in the second year and
reaching $0.15 in the third year.
      (2)   The Cumulative Capital Development Fund heretofore established for
the years 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993 shall be
continued for the years 1994, 1995 and 1996 at the rate of $0.15 per $100 of
assessed valuation.
(Prior Code, § 3.10.010)
   (B)   Levying of taxes. The City Common Council shall levy this annual tax
for a period of three years on all taxable property within the city and upon
the approval of the tax by the State Board of Tax Commissioners. The tax levy
set forth herein shall continue on all taxable property within the city for the
years 1994, 1995 and 1996 upon approval by the State Board of Tax
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 3.10.030)
   (C)   Use. The Cumulative Capital Development Fund shall be used for any of
the following purposes: a firefighting building, firefighting equipment, police
radio equipment or constructing, repairing or improving streets, alleys,
sidewalks, curbs, gutters and sewers. For the purposes of this division (C),
the word USED as it relates to use of the funds raised by the continuation of
the Cumulative Capital Development Fund shall include the lease or lease-
purchase of any item or items set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 3.10.020)
   (D)   Use for other purchases.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (C) above, funds
accumulated in the City Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be appropriated
and dispersed for purposes other than the purposes stated in division (C) above
if the purpose is to protect the public health, welfare or safety in an
emergency situation or circumstance which demands immediate action.
      (2)   Appropriations and disbursement of funds from the Cumulative
Capital Development Fund under the authority of this division (D) may be made
only after the Mayor issues a declaration that the public health, welfare or
safety is in immediate danger which requires the appropriation and disbursement
of funds from the Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.10.040)
(Ord. 1055, passed 7-2-1984; Ord. 1149, passed 7-2-1984; Ord. 1369, passed 6-7-
1993)
§ 35.26 NON-REVERTING PARK IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created a Non-Reverting Park
Improvement Fund for the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.76.010)
   (B)   Sources. Any donations to the Non- Reverting Park Improvement Fund of
the city shall be used for the purposes designated by the donor under
appropriations of the Common Council. In addition to donations, the rent
collected from renting the shelter houses within the parks shall be deposited
into the Non-Reverting Park Improvement Fund under the same guidelines.
(Prior Code, § 3.76.020)
(Ord. 1314, passed 4-1-1991; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 35.27 NON-REVERTING POOL OPERATING FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created a Non-Reverting Pool Operating
Fund pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-22.
(Prior Code, § 3.78.010)
   (B)   Sources. Concession receipts shall be deposited in the Non-Reverting
Pool Operating Fund. Other income derived from the operation of the swimming
pool may also be included as a source of deposit to the Non-Reverting Pool
Operating Fund in the discretion of the Parks and Recreation Board.
(Prior Code, § 3.78.020)
   (C)   Expenditures. Expenditures may be made from the Non-Reverting Pool
Operating fund for any pool purpose by the Parks and Recreation Board. Money
from the Non-Reverting Pool Operating Fund may be dispersed only on approved
claims allowed and signed by the President and Secretary of the Parks and
Recreation Board and approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 3.78.030)
(Ord. 1388, passed 7-5-1994)
§ 35.28 CITY POOL MAINTENANCE AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CUMULATIVE FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a City Pool Maintenance and
Capital Improvement Cumulative Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.68.010)
   (B)   Purpose. The aforesaid Fund shall be administered by the City Parks
Board for the purposes of maintenance, repair, equipment purchase and other
capital improvements deemed necessary and proper by the Board for the purpose
of ensuring the continued maintenance and operation of the City Memorial Pool
and any other pools which may be established or constructed by the city in the
future.
(Prior Code, § 3.68.020)
   (C)   Sources.
      (1)   The City Parks Board shall establish admission fees and user fees
for any and all city swimming pools. Fifty percent of the fees so generated
shall be deposited in the Fund herein established and shall be appropriated
through the methods prescribed by statute and ordinance and at the times when
the regular annual budget is made, as well as at times when additional
appropriation is deemed necessary and requested by the City Parks Board. The
funds are to be deposited at interest by the Clerk- Treasurer and may
accumulate indefinitely if not appropriated and used from year to year.
      (2)   The funds shall be used solely and exclusively for the purpose
herein defined and for no other purpose.
(Prior Code, § 3.68.030)
   (D)   Emergency appropriation purposes. The Fund herein established may be
also used, with approval by ordinance of the Common Council, for emergency
appropriation purposes, with the usual budget publication provisions and other
restrictions at the time as the Parks Board recommends the appropriation and
the Common Council approves the appropriation by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3.68.040)
   (E)   Depositing of funds. The Clerk-Treasurer is to deposit funds
accumulated in the Fund herein established at interest at a time when it is
feasible and proper to do so and still maintain the ability to meet claims
against the Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.68.050)
   (F)   Other fees generated. The remaining 50% of fees generated by
admissions to any pool operated under the jurisdiction of the Parks Board shall
continue to be deposited in the General Fund with the objective of defraying
and offsetting the costs of the General Fund through budgets established at
maintaining and operating the pool and public park system.
(Prior Code, § 3.68.060)
   (G)   Effective date and continuance of operation. This section and the Fund
took effect on an emergency basis immediately upon establishment by ordinance
by the Common Council of the city and continued in operation for a minimum of
five years, and shall continues in operation until calender year 1993 and
thereafter unless repealed by a two-thirds vote of the Common Council of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 3.68.070)
(Ord. 1164, passed 8-3-1987)
PUBLIC SAFETY AND PUBLIC SERVICES FUNDS
§ 35.40 MOTOR VEHICLE HIGHWAY FUND—UNALLOCATED (201).
   (A)   The Motor Vehicle Highway Fund (201) is renamed the Motor Vehicle
Highway Fund—Unallocated (201).
   (B)   The Fund will receive 50% of all state motor vehicle highway
distributions received after June 30, 2017.
   (C)   The Fund will retain any cash balance, including investment income and
interest, as of June 30, 2017.
   (D)   The Fund will receive all miscellaneous revenues related to either
Motor Vehicle Highway Fund, allocated or unallocated.
   (E)   The Fund will be used for any legal expenditure of motor vehicle
highway dollars.
(Ord. 2017-06 B, passed 7-3-2017)
§ 35.41 MOTOR VEHICLE HIGHWAY FUND—ALLOCATED (271).
   (A)   The Motor Vehicle Highway Fund—Allocated (271), herein “Allocated,” is
created.
   (B)   The Allocated Fund will receive 50% of all state motor vehicle highway
distributions received after June 30, 2017.
   (C)   The Allocated Fund will be used solely for the construction,
reconstruction and maintenance of highways, as defined in I.C. 8-14-1-1.
   (D)   Allocated Fund balances will remain in the Fund and will not revert to
the Unallocated Fund.
   (E)   Allocated Fund balances will not be eligible for transfer to the Rainy
Day Fund.
(Ord. 2017-06 B, passed 7-3-2017)
§ 35.42 MVH RESTRICTED FUND 203.
   (A)   An MVH Restricted Fund 203 is created, effective January 1, 2019.
   (B)   Beginning January 1, 2019, 50% of all funds received from each
distribution from the Motor Vehicle Highway Account shall be distributed to the
MVH Restricted Fund 203.
   (C)   The initial balance of the MVH Restricted Fund 203 on January 1, 2019,
will be the sum of $0.00, and no funds will be transferred into said account
from MVH Fund 201 funds which were held in said account at the end of 2018.
(Res. passed 2-4-2019)
§ 35.43 ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. Pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-30 regarding abandoned and junk
vehicles, there is hereby established an Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.20.010)
   (B)   Sources. The source of this Fund shall be provided exclusively by the
monies collected from towing, impounding and salvage charges made by the city
for services rendered.
(Prior Code, § 3.20.020)
(Ord. 824, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 35.44 FIRE PENSION FUND.
   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-7 and subsequent amendments, the
Firemen’s Pension Fund and managing Board of Trustees is hereby reestablished.
(Prior Code, § 3.40.010) (Ord. 505, passed 12-7-1953)
§ 35.45 POLICE PENSION FUND.
   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-6 and subsequent amendments, the
Policemen’s Pension Fund is hereby reestablished.
(Prior Code, § 3.36.010) (Ord. 506, passed 12-7-1953)
§ 35.46 BUILDING OR REMODELING, FIREFIGHTING AND POLICE RADIO EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment and use.
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-14, a fund known as the
Building or Remodeling, Firefighting and Police Radio Equipment Fund is
established.
      (2)   The Fund shall be used only for the purchase of, construction of,
renovation of or addition to buildings used by the Fire Department and for the
purchase of firefighting equipment and police radio equipment.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.010)
   (B)   Tax levy.
      (1)   To provide for the Cumulative Building and Equipment Fund, the City
Common Council shall levy an annual tax on all taxable property within the city
upon approval of the tax by the State Board of Tax Commissioners, as provided
by I.C. 36-8-14.
      (2)   The tax rate may not exceed $0.10 on each $100 of assessed
valuation of property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.020)
§ 35.47 LOIT PUBLIC SAFETY FUND.
   (A)   The LOIT Public Safety Fund for the city is hereby established, into
which all funds received by the city as a result of the County Local Option
Income Tax (LOIT) for public safety shall be transferred.
   (B)   The LOIT Public Safety Fund shall be divided into equal accounts for
the City Fire Department and for the City Police Department in the books of the
Clerk-Treasurer of the city.
   (C)   Said LOIT Public Safety Fund is subject to the same appropriation
process as all other funds receiving tax money. Prior to making an
appropriation from the LOIT Public Safety Fund, the Common Council shall make a
finding that the proposed use of the LOIT Public Safety Fund is consistent with
the intent of the Fund for the purposes of public safety as defined in I.C. 6-
3.6-6-8, as amended.
   (D)   In any fiscal year, the city may transfer in accordance with any
statutory requirements for said LOIT Fund.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 35.48 CANINE/POLICE EQUIPMENT DONATION FUND.
   (A)   Establishment and use. The Clerk-Treasurer of the city is authorized
to establish the Canine/Police Equipment Donation Fund, which shall be used
exclusively by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 3.90.010)
   (B)   Sources. The sources of this Fund shall be provided exclusively by the
monies collected by personal donations, any police-sponsored fundraisers, any
portion of money collected from violation fines as approved by the Common
Council and all restitution money collected through the Drug Task Force.
(Prior Code, § 3.90.020)
   (C)   Limitations on Fund. The following procedures shall be followed in
accounting for this Fund:
      (1)   Issue a State Board of Accounts- approved receipt for each
donation, monies raised and any collected violation fines as approved by the
Common Council;
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall receipt the fees to a separate fund in
the ledger of receipts and disbursements titled “Canine/Police Equipment
Donation Fund” and shall deposit the receipts in the city’s primary bank
account;
      (3)   Expenditures shall be authorized by the Mayor or Police Chief,
limited to the approved uses provided in the law and paid without appropriation
upon the basis of a claim filed, allowed and paid in the proper legal manner;
      (4)   Expenditures shall be limited to the purchase of and maintenance of
city-owned canines, bulletproof vests and tactical equipment; and
      (5)   A minimum of $7,500 shall be maintained in this Fund after December
31, 2007, unless an emergency situation arises with a canine.
(Prior Code, § 3.90.030)
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2007-04, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 35.49 FIRE REPORT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment and use. The Clerk-Treasurer of the city is authorized
to establish the Fire Report Fund, which shall be used exclusively by the City
Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 3.30.010)
   (B)   Sources. The sources of this Fund shall be provided by the monies
collected from the provision of copies of fire and other reports completed by
the City Fire Department at the rate of $5 per report, by certain donations, by
other restitutions and by the contract agreements with Licking, Washington and
Jackson Townships and with the Town of Shamrock Lakes.
(Prior Code, § 3.30.020)
   (C)   Limitations on Fund.
      (1)   The following procedures shall be followed in accounting for this
Fund:
         (a)   Issue a receipt for each fee collected; and
         (b)   Remit receipts at least once a month to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue an official receipt for remittance,
specifying on the receipt the number of general receipts accounted for.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall receipt the fees to a separate fund in
the ledger of receipts and disbursements titled “Fire Report and Other Fund”
and shall deposit the receipts in the city’s General Corporation Bank Account.
      (4)   Expenditures shall be authorized by the Fire Chief, limited to the
approved uses provided in the law and paid without appropriation upon the basis
of a claim filed, allowed and paid in the proper legal manner.
      (5)   Monies from this Fund may be invested by the Clerk-Treasurer, and
the interest shall be placed in the General Operating Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.30.030)
(Ord. 1051, passed 5-7-1984; Ord. 2004-12, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 35.50 ACCIDENT REPORT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment and use. The Clerk-Treasurer of the city is authorized
to establish the Accident Report Fund, which shall be used exclusively by the
Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 3.28.040)
   (B)   Sources. The sources of this Fund shall be provided exclusively by the
monies collected from the provision of copies of accident and offense reports
completed by the City Police Department at the rate of $6 per each report.
(Prior Code, § 3.28.060)
   (C)   Limitations on Fund.
      (1)   In keeping with the provisions of this section, the following
procedures shall be followed in accounting for this Fund:
         (a)   Issue a receipt, General Form No. 352, for each fee collected;
and
         (b)   Remit receipts to the Clerk- Treasurer at least once a month.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue an official receipt for remittance,
specifying on the receipt the number of general receipts accounted for, for
example, General Receipt Nos. 1-8, $24.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall receipt the fees to a separate fund in
the ledger of receipts and disbursements titled “Accident Report and Offense
Fund” and shall deposit the receipts in the city’s General Corporation Bank
Account.
      (4)   Expenditures shall be authorized by the Police Chief, limited to
the approved uses provided in the law and paid without appropriation upon the
basis of a claim filed, allowed and paid in the proper legal manner.
      (5)   Monies from this Fund may be invested by the Clerk-Treasurer, and
the interest shall be placed in the General Operating Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.28.080)
(Ord. 2006-07, passed 7-3-2006; Ord. 2009-06, passed 5-5-2009)
§ 35.51 NON-REVERTING DRUG AWARENESS RESISTANCE EDUCATION (D.A.R.E.) FUND.
   (A)   Establishment and use. A Non-Reverting Drug Awareness Resistance
Education (D.A.R.E.) Fund is hereby established to receive and disburse funds
for the operation of the D.A.R.E. Program.
(Prior Code, § 3.84.010)
   (B)   Transfer of funds. Funds may be transferred from the Police Fund and
deposited into the D.A.R.E. Fund by proper resolution of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 3.84.020)
(Ord. 1992-38, passed 12- -1992)
OTHER FUNDS
§ 35.65 SEPARATE FUND FOR RECEIVING AND DISBURSING TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
DISTRICT FUNDS.
   A separate fund is established in the books of the Clerk-Treasurer to
receive and disburse funds collected from the Tax Increment Financing District.
(Res. 2001-22, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 35.66 SEPARATE FUND FOR RECEIVING AND DISBURSING BLACKFORD COUNTY DRAINAGE
BOARD FUNDS.
   A separate fund is established in the books of the Clerk-Treasurer to
receive and disburse funds collected from the County Drainage Board.
(Res. 2001-23, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 35.67 FUNDS GENERATED THROUGH INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Funds received as a result of interlocal dispatching agreements shall
be deposited directly into the Police Operating Fund.
   (B)   Funds received as a result of interlocal fire protection agreements
shall be deposited directly into the fire operating fund.
(Res. 1993-05, passed 4-5-1993)
§ 35.68 OTHER FUNDS REESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to statutory provisions, all other funds that the city may elect to
use are hereby reestablished. The funds shall include, but not be limited to,
the Local Road and Street Fund, Motor Vehicle Fund, O.H.S.I., P.E.R.F., Parks
and Recreation Fund, Building Demolition, Repair and Contingent Fund, Civilian
Defense Fund, Parking Meter Fund, state and federal loan/grant funds and the
like.
(Prior Code, § 3.44.010) (Ord. 438, passed 3-1-1943; Ord. 784, passed 6-1-1970;
Ord. 1065, passed 8-13-1984)
CHAPTER 36: PUBLIC SAFETY AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
Fire Department Services, Allocation and Payment of Costs
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Reimbursement for costs
   
36.03   Revolving Fund
   
36.04   Payment liability
   
36.05   Department liability, responding outside of city limits
   
36.06   Appeals and hearings
   
36.07   Failure to pay
Emergency Services, Allocation and Payment of Costs
   
36.20   Definitions
   
36.21   Cost accounting, allocation and assignment
   
36.22   Hearing regulations
   
36.23   Payment of assigned costs
   
36.24   Crediting of monies collected
   
36.25   Failure to pay; suspension of costs
FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICES, ALLOCATION AND PAYMENT OF COSTS
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS, HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC SUBSTANCES. Those substances which are:
      (1)   Listed in the latest edition of the U.S. Department of
Transportation’s Guidebook for Hazardous Materials Incidents;
      (2)   Listed in the latest edition of Dangerous Properties of Industrial
Materials by H. Irving Sax, and contain the terms dangerous, hazardous or toxic
in the THR (Summary Toxicity Statement), the Disaster Hazmat Statement, the
Explosion Hazard Statement or the Acute Toxicity Statement;
      (3)   Listed in the latest edition of the Condensed Chemical Dictionary
by Gessner G. Hauley, and the words hazardous or toxic are used in the “hazard”
explanation used to categorize the substance; or
      (4)   Listed in the latest edition of the NIOSH.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, cooperative, limited liability company,
firm, company, corporation, association, trust, estate, government entity or
any other legal entity or their representatives, agents or assigns.
   RESPONSE. Any and all instances when one or more members of the City Fire
Department are called out to the scene of an incident involving the presence or
suspected presence of dangerous, hazardous or toxic substances.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The person liable for reimbursement for costs and
expenses associated with the operation of the City Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 3.92.010) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 7-3-2006)
§ 36.02 REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Any time the City Fire Department is called to the scene of an
accident, the responsible party shall reimburse the City Fire Department at
full replacement cost for any emergency response equipment or supplies which
are damaged, lost, spent, destroyed, rendered irreparable or “used up” in
responding to or managing the incident.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the reimbursement obligations contained herein,
the responsible party shall be billed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee
of the City Fire Department for the initial response with a hazardous material
response unit, air van, mobile communications unit or other emergency response
vehicles as deemed necessary to recover from the incident as dispatched:
         (a)   Two hundred fifty dollars per response vehicle, except for a
command/control vehicle; and
         (b)   Seven hundred dollars per command/control vehicle.
      (2)   For each hour or fraction thereof as on- scene assistance:
         (a)   Seven hundred fifty dollars per response unit, except for a
command/control vehicle; and
         (b)   Fifty dollars per command/control vehicle.
   (C)   It shall be noted that the fee schedule established in division (B)
above is in full accordance with state law, I.C. 36-8-12-16.
(Prior Code, § 3.92.030) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 7-3-2006)
§ 36.03 REVOLVING FUND.
   As per I.C. 36-8-12.2-8, all monies generated and collected from the
enforcement of this subchapter shall be deposited in a revolving fund
established for the sole purpose of purchasing equipment, supplies, vehicles,
operating costs and others as deemed necessary for the continued operation of
the City Fire Department. The Fire Chief shall oversee this fund and ensure
that all monies are deposited and disbursed as per this subchapter. Funding
requests shall be made by the Fire Chief of the City Fire Department on behalf
of the City Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 3.92.050) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 7-3-2006)
§ 36.04 PAYMENT LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person who uses, stores, handles, transports or disposes of any
dangerous, hazardous or toxic substances or materials or any substances or
materials reasonably believed to be dangerous, hazardous or toxic in a fashion
or manner so as to necessitate a response by the City Fire Department shall be
liable to the City Fire Department for reimbursement of the costs and expenses
made necessary by the response of the City Fire Department pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee of the City Fire Department
shall prepare a billing pursuant to this subchapter and shall submit the
billing to the party responsible for payment of the costs and expenses
identified in this subchapter not later than 60 days following any
reimbursement response of the City Fire Department.
   (C)   The person responsible for reimbursing the City Fire Department under
the provisions of this subchapter shall tender payment in satisfaction of the
aforementioned billing not later than 60 days following receipt of the billing
prepared and issued by the Fire Chief or his or her designee of the City Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 3.92.020) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 7-3-2006)
§ 36.05 DEPARTMENT LIABILITY, RESPONDING OUTSIDE OF CITY LIMITS.
   In the event the City Fire Department responds to an incident outside of the
boundaries of the City Fire Department, the City Fire Department shall not be
held liable for anything that goes wrong in providing the aid, including
liability, worker’s compensation, property damage, loss, bodily injuries or
death. The party requesting aid shall take full responsibility for the City
Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 3.92.040) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 7-3-2006)
§ 36.06 APPEALS AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   If a person objects to the aforementioned billing by the Fire Chief or
his or her designee of the City Fire Department, then the responsible party
must file with the Fire Chief a written objection to the billed amount. Upon
receipt of the written objection, the Fire Chief shall place the matter on the
agenda of the City Common Council’s regularly-scheduled meeting and shall allow
the responsible party an opportunity to object to the billing. The City Council
shall then deliberate and issue a written opinion concerning the
appropriateness of the billed amount.
   (B)   If the responsible party objects to the decision of the City Council,
then a petition requesting judicial review of the City Council’s decision shall
be filed with the County Court not later than 30 days from the date of the
decision. The County Court Judge shall conduct a hearing on the petition as
expeditiously as is consistent with the Court’s calendar.
   (C)   The decision of the County Court Judge shall be final unless the
responsible party or the City Council appeals that decision to the appellate
procedure for appeal of any civil matter.
(Prior Code, § 3.92.020) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 7-3-2006)
§ 36.07 FAILURE TO PAY.
   Any person who fails to reimburse the City Fire Department within the
aforementioned 60 days shall be deemed to have violated this subchapter and
shall be subject to a penalty equivalent to 5% of the total amount for every
day that the responsible party fails to tender reimbursement to the City Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 3.92.020) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 7-3-2006)
EMERGENCY SERVICES, ALLOCATION AND PAYMENT OF COSTS
§ 36.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY. The statutorily-created body of the city.
   COSTS. Those necessary expenditures of monies, time and materials which are
required to alleviate, control or contain an emergency, including any COSTS
required to collect those costs expended.
   DEPARTMENT. One or more of the following:
      (1)   Fire;
      (2)   Police;
      (3)   Street;
      (4)   Water;
      (5)   Electric;
      (6)   Sewage;
      (7)   City Engineer; or
      (8)   City Attorney.
   EMERGENCY. A situation which arises unexpectedly, requiring some quick
response by a department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.72.010)
§ 36.21 COST ACCOUNTING, ALLOCATION AND ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a department responds by request or mandate to an emergency,
the department head or his or her assign shall maintain a log of the costs
incurred.
   (B)   When a final tabulation of the costs is completed, the department head
or his or her assign shall present the same to the Board.
      (1)   The Board shall set a hearing at which testimony may be taken, from
which a determination as to the amount of costs to be allocated to each
department and the amount assigned to the individual or business receiving the
emergency services.
      (2)   The determination of the Board shall be final.
   (C)   The Board shall require any payment of those costs assigned within 90
days from the date of determination.
(Prior Code, § 3.72.020)
§ 36.22 HEARING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All hearings on the accounting, allocation and assignment of costs
shall be scheduled to coincide with regularly-scheduled Board meetings, except
as follows:
      (1)   When a hearing is expected to last greater than 30 minutes;
      (2)   When undue hardship would be placed on any witnesses; or
      (3)   Whenever urgent circumstances exist to require a special meeting of
the Board to conduct the hearing.
   (B)   All parties to the hearing shall be given a notice by the Clerk-
Treasurer not less than ten days before the scheduled hearing.
   (C)   All parties shall have the opportunity to present witnesses and cross-
examine.
   (D)   The decision of the Board shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 3.72.030)
§ 36.23 PAYMENT OF ASSIGNED COSTS.
   (A)   Payment of assigned costs shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer by
cash, money order or certified check.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to establish a payment schedule so
as to avoid undue hardship on the assign, but in no event shall the length of
payments exceed one year from the date of the Board’s determination.
(Prior Code, § 3.72.040)
§ 36.24 CREDITING OF MONIES COLLECTED.
   All monies collected from assigns shall be credited to the department or
departments which incurred the costs for the emergency services.
(Prior Code, § 3.72.050)
§ 36.25 FAILURE TO PAY; SUSPENSION OF COSTS.
   (A)   The Board shall be authorized to empower the City Attorney to
institute legal proceedings upon nonpayment within 90 days. The costs of the
city for legal proceedings shall be assessed to the nonpaying party.
   (B)   The Board shall have the authority to suspend the assignment of costs
upon a finding of a routine emergency situation or when there is a
determination of undue hardship on the party receiving emergency services.
(Prior Code, § 3.72.020)
CHAPTER 37: INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Policy
   
37.002   Materiality threshold
   
37.003   Personnel training
Control Environment Component
   
37.015   Commitment to integrity and ethical values
   
37.016   Oversight body of internal control system
   
37.017   Responsibilities of management
   
37.018   Employee recruitment, development and retention
   
37.019   Performance evaluations and accountability
Risk Assessment Component
   
37.030   Objectives defined
   
37.031   Risk identification, analysis and response
   
37.032   Potential for fraud considered
   
37.033   Significant changes considered
Control Activities Component
   
37.045   Control activities designed
   
37.046   Information system of political subdivisions
   
37.047   Control activities implemented through policies
Information and Communication Component
   
37.060   Use of quality information
   
37.061   Internal communication of necessary quality information
   
37.062   External communication of necessary quality information
Monitoring Activities Component
   
37.075   Monitoring activities established
   
37.076   Timely remediation of internal control deficiencies
Specific Policies
   
37.090   Payroll activities
   
37.091   Disbursement activities
   
37.092   Receipting activities
   
37.093   Cash activities
   
37.094   Credit card transactions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 POLICY.
   The purpose of this policy is to communicate the Common Council’s internal
control objectives to all employees and elected officials of the city and to
firmly commit the city to the 17 key principles of internal controls as
established by the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.002 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   The city hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $500 for purposes of the
internal control procedures adopted and approved herein.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.003 PERSONNEL TRAINING.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer is directed to ensure that all personnel receive
training concerning the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein
after to June 30, 2016.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
CONTROL ENVIRONMENT COMPONENT
§ 37.015 COMMITMENT TO INTEGRITY AND ETHICAL VALUES.
   (A)   The oversight body and management demonstrates a commitment to
integrity and ethical values.
   (B)   The city has the responsibility to establish and maintain an adequate
system of internal control and to furnish to the City Common Council, various
boards and commissions, governmental agencies, creditors and others reliable
financial information on a timely basis. An adequate system of internal control
is necessary for the city to discharge these responsibilities.
   (C)   Controls help ensure that assets are not exposed to unauthorized
access and use, transactions are properly recorded in the financial records and
the resultant financial information is reliable. External organizations and
stakeholders of the city rely on financial information to make decisions toward
appropriations, loans and other debt, grants and other contractual
relationships. City resources are dependent upon the system of internal
control. Auditors are required annually to report upon the adequacy of the
city’s systems for control over financial reporting and compliance per I.C. 5-
11-1-27(e). The safeguarding of city assets and the reliability which the city
and others can place upon its financial records is dependent upon the
effectiveness of the internal control process.
   (D)   As the fiscal body, the Common Council expects the city’s
administration to effect an internal control environment with policies and
procedures necessary to provide reasonable assurance that practices cause
effective and efficient operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance
with applicable laws and regulations.
   (E)   The system of internal control is meant to keep the city on course
toward its mission and to minimize surprises. The system promotes efficiency,
minimizes risks of asset loss and helps ensure the reliability of financial
information and compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations.
   (F)   Internal control is a process. It is a means to an end, not an end
unto itself. The control environment is the foundation upon which all
components of internal control are based. It sets the tone for city operations.
Internal control is about people, operations, communications and the work
environment. It is not about policies and forms, though it takes shape through
the implementation of relevant policies, procedures and practices. Internal
control can provide reasonable assurance, but no system of control can provide
absolute assurance to the Common Council and other users of financial
information.
   (G)   The Finance Department shall be charged with:
      (1)   Conveying periodic messages of the city’s internal control
philosophy and expectations to all employees;
      (2)   Evaluating the city’s internal control system for weaknesses on a
periodic, but not less frequently than annual, basis and providing solutions to
any discovered weaknesses, and informing employees of necessary changes in
procedures;
      (3)   Working with the Human Resources Department to establish a
confidential reporting system for individuals to report suspected fraud and
abuse of internal control policies; and
      (4)   Working with the Human Resources Department to institute procedures
to address violations of policies and consequences for violations.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.016 OVERSIGHT BODY OF INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM.
   (A)   The oversight body oversees the entity’s internal control system.
   (B)   As the fiscal body for the city, the Common Council is responsible for
setting the institutional expectations for internal control, ensuring
management is aware of the those expectations, requiring that the upward
communications channels are open through all levels of management and
evaluating management’s effectiveness toward monitoring the control environment
and implementing sound control policies and procedures. As the city’s Chief
Fiscal Officer, the City Clerk-Treasurer will be the Common Council’s chief
agent in implementing and managing the internal control policies and
procedures.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.017 RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the entity’s objectives.
   (B)   Individuals with delegated approval authority, such as elected
officials and department heads, are responsible for establishing, maintaining
and supporting a system of internal controls within their areas of
responsibility and for creating a control environment which encourages
compliance with city policies and procedures.
   (C)   Adequate supervision is necessary to monitor that internal controls
are operating as intended and to help ensure the reliability of accounting and
operational controls by pointing out errors, omissions, exceptions and
inconsistencies in procedures. Staff in leadership roles are responsible for
the application of this policy and the design, development, implementation and
maintenance of systems of internal controls focusing on the effectiveness of
operations and the safeguarding of assets within their respective areas of
responsibility. All levels of management and supervision are responsible for
strengthening internal controls when weaknesses are detected. Department
managers should periodically review departmental procedures to ensure that the
general principles of internal control are being followed.
   (D)   The Finance Department has the primary responsibility for internal
control over financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws, rules and
regulations. The Controller is the city’s chief source for information and
assistance to staff and department heads on this topic and will make resources
available to assist in administering this policy.
   (E)   The Human Resources Department is responsible for internal controls
over employee recruitment, hiring, separation, promotion, job classification,
employee rights and salary administration. The Benefits Coordinator and
Corporation Counsel are the city’s sources for information and assistance on
this topic and will make resources available to assist in administering this
policy.
   (F)   All levels of internal control are subject to examination by external
auditors, who are required to report on the adequacy of internal controls over
finance and compliance.
   (G)   Department heads are responsible for prompt corrective action on all
internal control findings and recommendations made by internal and external
auditors. The audit process is completed only after department heads receive
the audit results and take action to correct internal control weaknesses,
improve systems or demonstrate that management action is not warranted.
Department heads have the responsibility to ensure that those who report to
them have adequate knowledge, skills and abilities to function within and
contribute to an effective internal control environment. This includes
providing access to appropriate training on topics relevant to their job
responsibilities.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.018 EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT, DEVELOPMENT AND RETENTION.
   (A)   Management demonstrates a commitment to recruit, develop and retain
competent individuals.
   (B)   (1)   The City Personnel Policy Handbook provides a roadmap for
recruiting and maintaining quality employees.
      (2)   Prior to employment, individuals may be subject to preemployment
background screening or a credit history check.
      (3)   The city will continue to assess the best recruitment pools and
tools for the different sets of skills necessary to adequately implement and
maintain quality internal controls.
   (C)   Job descriptions will be updated where necessary to reflect internal
control responsibilities and duties. Employees will be regularly trained in
internal control methods, and all training will be documented in employees’
personnel files. Employees will be regularly evaluated by their supervisors on
internal control duties and receive feedback on possible improvements.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.019 PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
   (A)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals accountable for
their internal control responsibilities.
   (B)   Individuals are held accountable for their internal control
responsibilities through a recognized structure which includes relevant job
descriptions, operating procedures, periodic reviews, regular feedback and a
progressive disciplinary policy.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
RISK ASSESSMENT COMPONENT
§ 37.030 OBJECTIVES DEFINED.
   (A)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the identification of
risks and risk tolerances.
   (B)   Through the creation of standard operating procedures and accurate
organizational reporting charts, management conveys and identifies objectives,
missions, policies and risk tolerances to employees.
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer will lead a risk analysis of three major
areas:
         (a)   The effectiveness and efficiency of operations;
         (b)   The reliability of reporting for internal and external use; and
         (c)   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
      (2)   For each category, the Clerk-Treasurer will define objectives in
specific measurable terms in order to enable the design of internal control for
related risk, increase understanding at all levels, assess performance,
identify what is to be achieved, who is to achieve it, how it will be achieved
and when it will be achieved and incorporate external requirements.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.031 RISK IDENTIFICATION, ANALYSIS AND RESPONSE.
   (A)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risks related to
achieving the defined objectives.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer will identify, analyze and respond to the risks
identified in §
37.030 of this chapter by determining:
      (1)   How likely the risk is to occur;
      (2)   How it will impact the objective;
      (3)   If the risk is based on complex or unusual transactions; and
      (4)   If the risk is based on fraud.
   (C)   Once each risk has been identified and analyzed, the Clerk-Treasurer
will work with department heads to determine how to respond to each risk with a
specific solution and action.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.032 POTENTIAL FOR FRAUD CONSIDERED.
   (A)   Management considers fraud potential when identifying, analyzing and
responding to risks.
   (B)   Management is committed to fraud prevention by utilizing a “trust but
verify” approach. The potential for fraud, misappropriation and outright theft
are contemplated as controls are designed for various city divisions. Fraud
responses will include statutorily-required responses to fraud, including, but
not limited to, I.C. 5-11-1-27(l), relating to the report of misappropriation
of funds to the State Board of Accounts and the prosecuting attorney, and I.C.
5-11-1-27(j), relating to the report of material variances, losses, shortages
or thefts to the State Board of Accounts. The city shall utilize a materiality
threshold of $500.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.033 SIGNIFICANT CHANGES CONSIDERED.
   (A)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant changes
which could impact the internal control system.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer, in coordination with department heads, will
regularly evaluate and adjust internal control policies in order to accommodate
for the impact of future changes, including, but not limited to, personnel
changes, newly-elected officials, new programs, new technology, new laws and
regulations and financial fluctuations.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
CONTROL ACTIVITIES COMPONENT
§ 37.045 CONTROL ACTIVITIES DESIGNED.
   (A)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer will establish and maintain a system of internal
controls which satisfies the city’s objectives in the following categories:
      (1)   Risks are identified and effectively managed;
      (2)   The safeguarding of city assets;
      (3)   The reliability and integrity of financial information;
      (4)   Compliance with city policies, plans, procedures, laws and
regulations;
      (5)   The economical and efficient use of city resources; and
      (6)   Meeting established objectives and goals for city operations and
programs.
   (C)   General internal control principles for departments are as follows.
      (1)   Separation of duties.
         (a)   Duties are separated so that one person’s work routinely serves
as a check on another’s work.
         (b)   No one person has complete control over more than one key
function or activity, such as authorizing, approving, certifying, disbursing,
receiving, reconciling and the like.
      (2)   Authorization and approval.
         (a)   Proposed transactions are authorized when proper and consistent
with city policy and the department’s plans.
         (b)   Transactions are approved by the person who has delegated
approval authority, which is usually delegated on the basis of special
competency or knowledge.
      (3)   Custodial and security arrangements.
         (a)   The responsibility for physical security or custody of city
assets is separated from the record keeping or accounting for those assets.
         (b)   Unauthorized access to city assets and institutional data is
prevented.
      (4)   Timely and accurate review and reconciliation.
         (a)   Departmental accounting records and documents are examined by
employees who have a sufficient understanding of the city’s accounting and
financial systems to verify that recorded transactions actually took place and
were made in accordance with city policies and procedures.
         (b)   Departmental accounting records and documentation are compared
with city accounting system reports and financial statements to verify their
reasonableness, accuracy and completeness.
      (5)   Applied to all. The general internal control principles should be
applied to all departmental operations, especially accounting records and
reports, payroll, purchasing, receiving and disbursement approval, equipment
and supply inventories, cash receipts, petty cash and change funds, billing and
accounts receivable.
   (D)   All city systems, processes, operations, functions and activities are
subject to the evaluations of internal control systems. The results of these
evaluations provide information regarding the city’s overall system of control.
   (E)   Information and communication information must be timely and
communicated in a manner which enables people to carry out their
responsibilities.
      (1)   All covered employees must be trained on internal controls
according to I.C. 5-11-1-27(g). All personnel must receive a clear message from
the city’s administration that control responsibilities are to be taken
seriously. Failure to comply with established practices will subject
individuals to the terms of disciplinary action or dismissal.
      (2)   Employees must understand their own roles in the internal control
system, as well as how individual activities relate to the work of others. To
this end, whenever a new budgetary unit, financial activity and the like is set
up, the Controller will provide notification to the appropriate parties of the
responsibilities incumbent on them for good business practices and sound
financial management, including reference to the principles within this policy.
      (3)   Employees must have a means of communicating significant
information to the city’s administration.
      (4)   The city must communicate effectively with external parties, such
as auditors, creditors, contractors, suppliers, regulators and other
stakeholders.
   (F)   (1)   Internal control is meant to keep the city focused on achieving
its mission while avoiding surprises. There is a balance between effective
controls and mission accomplishment. Costs associated with internal controls
should not exceed their benefit, nor should controls be allowed to stifle
mission effectiveness and timely action.
      (2)   All levels of management must assess the costs, benefits and risks
when designing controls to develop a positive control environment and to
compensate for the risks of noncompliance, loss of assets or unreliable
reporting while accomplishing the city’s mission.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.046 INFORMATION SYSTEM OF POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Management designs the political subdivision’s information system and
related control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer and department heads will work to ensure that
information technology is used as an integral part of the internal control
system. This may include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Setting permission such that only certain users may perform certain
tasks;
      (2)   Using technology to accomplish the segregation of duties by forcing
duties to be completed by different users;
      (3)   Automating certain processes and calculations;
      (4)   Limiting the authority to access different components of various
softwares to employees with duties specifically related to that component;
      (5)   Prohibiting user ID and password sharing among employees;
      (6)   Restricting the authority to correct or make adjustments to records
to key employees; or
      (7)   Requiring the use of prescribed forms or the approval of
alternative forms.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.047 CONTROL ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED THROUGH POLICIES.
   (A)   Management implements control activities through policies.
   (B)   The city has the Personnel Policies Handbook, which is regularly
updated to communicate policies to employees. Additionally, the Clerk-
Treasurer regularly works with departments and employees who handle financial
transactions to recommend and ensure best practices. All procedures are in
writing and communicated frequently to all relevant employees. Policies are
available both electronically and in hard copy form.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION COMPONENT
§ 37.060 USE OF QUALITY INFORMATION.
   (A)   Management uses quality information to achieve the political
subdivision’s objectives.
   (B)   The city strives to lead in the areas of financial transparency and
accountability. By adopting standards and investing in systems which exceed
state- mandated minimums, the city’s management provides employees and
stakeholders with high-quality information and information systems. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall attend training and industry seminars to stay abreast of
changes and developments in requirements and communicate that information
effectively to impacted employees.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.061 INTERNAL COMMUNICATION OF NECESSARY QUALITY INFORMATION.
   (A)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality information
to achieve the political subdivision’s objectives.
   (B)   Internal communications on internal controls are communicated through
the adoption of formal policies by relevant boards and commissions or the
legislative body or documented through memos from the Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer or
relevant department head. Internal memos and reports are maintained to document
communication.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.062 EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION OF NECESSARY QUALITY INFORMATION.
   (A)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality information
to achieve the entity’s objectives.
   (B)   Communications with the State Board of Accounts, other state agencies,
grantor agencies and regulatory agencies are documented by email, memos,
letters and other forms of written correspondence. Logs are kept for
information provided verbally. All documents are maintained in accordance with
the city’s and state’s record retention policies. Reports and policies are
cross-checked for accuracy, relevancy, and timeliness of information.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
MONITORING ACTIVITIES COMPONENT
§ 37.075 MONITORING ACTIVITIES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to monitor
the internal control system and evaluate the results.
   (B)   The city’s administration monitors and evaluates compliance with
internal control policies via multiple vectors. Separation of duties,
redundancy polices, layered approval systems, monthly reports and physical
controls such as video monitoring allow management to both review and evaluate
control systems.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall implement a system of monitoring which
includes:
      (1)   Periodic checks to determine if controls are in place and working
effectively;
      (2)   Reviewing control activities to determine if the actual activities
are in compliance with established procedures; and
      (3)   Documenting deficiencies in the internal control processes and
remediating them quickly.
   (D)   Monitoring activities will be documented by signatures, initials or
other appropriate methods.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.076 TIMELY REMEDIATION OF INTERNAL CONTROL DEFICIENCIES.
   (A)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies on a
timely basis.
   (B)   Breaches of internal controls are subject to significant levels of
internal scrutiny. If informed of a material breach of internal controls, then
the Clerk-Treasurer and Mayor’s Office actively investigate and address said
breach and adjust policies and procedures to prevent such breaches in the
future. Once breaches are identified and investigated, a formal or informal
corrective action plan will be developed.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
SPECIFIC POLICIES
§ 37.090 PAYROLL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Salaries and wage rates are verified by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The responsibilities for hiring, terminating and approving promotions
are segregated from those preparing payroll transactions or inputting data.
   (C)   The responsibilities for approving time sheets are segregated from
those for preparing payroll transactions or inputting data.
   (D)   Payroll adjustment reports are submitted by someone outside of the
payroll process.
   (E)   Employees’ time and attendance records are approved by their
supervisors.
   (F)   Corrections to recorded time and attendance records are approved by
the employee and the employee’s supervisor.
   (G)   Procedures are in place to ensure that changes in employment status
are promptly reported to the payroll processing unit.
   (H)   Payroll disbursements are reviewed and approved by an authorized
individual prior to payment.
   (I)   Access to payroll applications is appropriately controlled by user
logins and passwords.
   (J)   Changes to a payroll disbursement are approved by an individual other
than the ones authorized to process the changes.
   (K)   Payroll checks are accounted for in numerical order and reconciled to
the payroll check register.
   (L)   Access to the signature stamp used to sign payroll checks is
adequately controlled.
   (M)   Payroll checks are mailed or distributed by someone outside of the
normal payroll distribution function.
   (N)   Unclaimed payroll checks are returned to the Clerk-Treasurer via the
department head.
   (O)   Employees are cross-trained on the payroll process, and those assigned
to payroll take regular vacations.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.091 DISBURSEMENT ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The responsibility for approving claims is segregated from those
preparing the claims.
   (B)   Checks are written by an individual other than the one approving the
claims.
   (C)   Checks are signed by an individual other than the one preparing them.
   (D)   Claims for payment are reviewed and approved by the governing body
prior to payment.
   (E)   A reconcilement is completed between the claims for payment approved
by the Board and the actual disbursements posted to the ledger.
   (F)   The responsibility for acknowledging the receipt of goods or services
is segregated from those preparing claims and writing checks.
   (G)   Vendor checks are accounted for in numerical order and reconciled to
the disbursement ledger.
   (H)   Invoices or other receipts are attached to each claim to support the
disbursement.
   (I)   A review is completed by an individual outside of the disbursement
process, in which the claim amount is compared to the supporting documentation
attached to the claim and the amount of the check.
   (J)   Access to disbursement applications is appropriately controlled by
user logins and passwords.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.092 RECEIPTING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The responsibility for collecting money and issuing receipts is
segregated from those preparing the bank deposits.
   (B)   The responsibility for making bank deposits is segregated from those
preparing the monthly bank reconcilement.
   (C)   Prenumbered receipts are issued for all money collected, and the
receipt is retained with supporting documentation.
   (D)   Receipts are reconciled to the cash receipts ledger by an individual
other than the one collecting money and issuing receipts.
   (E)   The posting of receipts to the ledger is completed by an individual
other than the one who collects money and makes the deposits.
   (F)   Receipts indicate the type of payment received, such as cash, check
and the like, and this is reconciled to the makeup of the bank deposit.
   (G)   Accounts receivable records are maintained by an individual other than
the one or ones involved in the billing process.
   (H)   The billing process is completed by an individual other than the one
who collects cash payments from customers.
   (I)   Adjustments to customer accounts above the managerial threshold are
approved by the governing body only after review.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.093 CASH ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   A reconcilement between the recorded cash balance and the bank balance
is completed monthly by an individual separate from the receipting and
disbursing processes.
   (B)   A reconcilement between the receipts ledger and the credits to the
bank account is completed periodically by an individual separate from the
receipting process.
   (C)   A reconcilement between the disbursement ledger and the debits to the
bank account is completed periodically by an individual separate from the
disbursement process.
   (D)   The monthly reconcilement between the cash balance and the bank
balance is thoroughly reviewed and approved by the governing body.
   (E)   Disbursements from and reimbursements to petty cash funds are
periodically reviewed by an individual other than the one responsible for
maintaining the petty cash fund.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.094 CREDIT CARD TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   A designated official or employee oversees the issuance and use of the
credit cards.
   (B)   An ordinance or resolution specifically states the purposes for which
the credit card may be used.
   (C)   A designated person separate from the disbursement process reviews the
transactions listed on the credit card statements for sufficient documentation
and inclusion in claim to the Board.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016)
CHAPTER 38: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
General Policies
   
38.01   City membership in associations
   
38.02   Public meeting policy
Nepotism and Contracting with a Unit
   
38.15   Statutory authority and establishment
   
38.16   Regulated actions by single members of a body
   
38.17   Compliance and failure to comply
   
38.18   Copies on file for public inspection
Identity Theft Protection
   
38.30   Title
   
38.31   Purpose
   
38.32   Adoption and modification of program
   
38.33   Engaging service providers
   
38.34   Risk assessment and identification
   
38.35   Detection
   
38.36   Response
   
38.37   Personal information security procedures
   
38.38   Periodic review and updating of program
   
38.39   Approval and adoption of program
GENERAL POLICIES
§ 38.01 CITY MEMBERSHIP IN ASSOCIATIONS.
   The city is hereby authorized to participate through duly-designed
representatives in the meetings and activities of appropriate associations, and
the Common Council is authorized to appropriate necessary funds to defray the
expenses of the representatives in connection therewith pursuant to I.C. 36-1-
3-2.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.010) (Ord. 1018, passed 5-3-1982)
§ 38.02 PUBLIC MEETING POLICY.
   (A)   The Council of the city hereby adopts the following rules which shall
applyto all individuals attending public meetings of the Council.
      (1)   Members of the general public in attendance at a public meeting of
the Council have no rights with reference to the meeting, except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (2)   Although members of the general public have no right to speak
during a public meeting, the Council, at its sole discretion, may provide for a
public comment period, during which time individuals may be given an
opportunity to address the Council.
      (3)   Members of the public may speak during a public hearing as required
by the statutes, but their comments shall be governed by these rules.
      (4)   During any public comment period, individuals wishing to speak will
be required to sign a speaker registration sheet and provide the speaker's
name, address, and issue or topic they wish to address. Individuals will be
called to speak in the order of which they have signed the speaker registration
sheet.
      (5)   Individuals who wish to speak and have signed the speaker
registration sheet may waive their opportunity to speak once called upon;
however, an individual who waives his, her or their opportunity to speak will
not be permitted to speak at a later time.
      (6)   Once called upon, all speakers shall first state their names, their
county of residence, and the issue upon which they wish to speak. Speakers may
only speak from a podium and must speak loudly and clearly into the microphone
provided.
      (7)   (a)   Any speaker that wishes to address the Council during a
public hearing shall provide information that is germane and relevant to the
purpose of the public hearing only.
         (b)   Any comments that are derogatory, inflammatory, hateful or non-
germane as determined by the presiding officer of the public hearing shall be
considered out of order and the speaker will forfeit their remaining time, if
any.
      (8)   Any speaker wishing to provide documents to the Council at the
meeting shall provide one copy for each of the Council members; however,
speakers are encouraged to bring additional copies of any documents they intend
to distribute during the meeting.
      (9)   (a)   Each speaker may only speak once and will be given a maximum
of three minutes to speak unless a shorter period of time is set forth by the
Council at the start of the public comment period.
         (b)   Time may not be reserved or yielded to other speakers and once
an individual is finished speaking, that individual’s remaining time, if any,
is waived.
      (10)   Each speaker will be notified when his, her or their allotted time
to speak is exhausted and any speaker that does not immediately conclude his,
her or their remarks at the expiration of his, her or their allotted time will
be deemed out of order and the speaker will be asked to stop.
      (11)   Comments which are duplicative or repetitive will be deemed out of
order and the speaker will be asked to stop.
      (12)   Any speaker who is discourteous, argumentative, accusatory, or
insulting will be deemed out of order and asked to stop.
      (13)   Once a speaker is deemed out of order for any reason, that
speaker’s remaining time, if any, will be forfeited and the speaker will not be
granted an opportunity to make any further comment or presentation.
      (14)   All members of the general public attending a public meeting will
be expected to adhere to these rules and, any person failing to do so will be
deemed out of order.
      (15)   The Council is authorized, and have sole discretion, to request
any person deemed out of order leave the meeting and, once requested to leave,
a person must immediately leave the meeting room.
      (16)   In extreme cases, if a person refuses to leave the meeting after
being asked to do so and that person continues to disrupt the proceedings in a
way that is obviously hostile to the purpose of the meeting, the Council may
order that the person be removed by members of the County Sheriff’s Department.
      (17)   (1)   During its public meetings, the Council will take all
measures necessary under the circumstances to maintain order.
         (b)   In exercising this discretion, the Council will be guided by a
judicious appraisal of the circumstances, including the conduct and decorum of
members of the general public in attendance.
   (B)   Upon the adoption of this section, a copy of the rules stated herein
shall be posted outside the Council Court Room and made available to the
general public through the internet website for the city
(www.hartfordcity.net).
(Res. 2021-40, passed 9-6-2021)
NEPOTISM AND CONTRACTING
WITH A UNIT
§ 38.15 STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The city finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in employment with the city and in contracting
with the city in order to continue to be able to provide local government
services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective July 1,
2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012, the city shall have a nepotism and a contracting with
a unit policy which complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2,
hereinafter the “Nepotism Policy,” and I.C. 36-1-21, hereinafter the
“Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy,” and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The City Nepotism Policy is hereby established effective July 1, 2012,
by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, including
all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to
time, and by making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (D)   The City Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012, by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and by making them a part hereof as
if fully set out herein.
   (E)   The city finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements which are “more stringent or detailed,” and
that more detailed are necessary.
(Res. 2012-22, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 38.16 REGULATED ACTIONS BY SINGLE MEMBERS OF A BODY.
   (A)   The city finds that a single member of the legislative body cannot act
for the body to make work assignments, compensations, grievances, advancements
or performance evaluations without the prior authority of a majority of the
body, and therefore, without such authority by the majority, he or she will not
be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-5-2-9.4.
   (B)   The city finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the city cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensations, grievances, advancements or performance evaluations
without the prior authority of a majority of the body when a statute provides
that a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority, the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
(Res. 2012-22, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 38.17 COMPLIANCE AND FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the city are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this subchapter and to demonstrate compliance with these same
policies.
   (B)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the Nepotism Policy is a violation, and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee, a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
Nepotism Policy may be subject to actions allowed by law.
   (C)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the Contracting with a Unit by a Relative
Policy is a violation, and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of the Contracting with a Unit by a
Relative Policy may be subject to actions allowed by law.
(Res. 2012-22, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 38.18 COPIES ON FILE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, as supplemented or amended,
are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the city for public
inspection, as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Res. 2012-22, passed 6-4-2012)
IDENTITY THEFT PROTECTION
§ 38.30 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “City of Hartford City, Indiana,
Identity Theft Prevention Program.”
(Prior Code, § 17.04.010) (Ord. 2009-10, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 38.31 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure that the city is in
compliance with 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 in order to detect, prevent and mitigate
identity theft by identifying and detecting identity theft red flags and by
responding to the red flags in a manner which will prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Prior Code, § 17.04.020)
   (B)   The program is intended to develop a plan to identify red flags which
will alert employees of the city when new or existing accounts are opened using
false information, and to:
      (1)   Protect against the establishment of false accounts;
      (2)   Establish methods to ensure that existing accounts were not opened
using false information; and
      (3)   Adopt measures to respond to such events.
   (C)   (1)   The city provides water, sewage, wastewater and sanitation
services for which payment is made after the product is consumed or the service
has otherwise been provided, and therefore, the accounts for such services,
being utility accounts, are “covered accounts” pursuant to certain federal
regulations. Said federal regulations, adopted as 16 C.F.R. § 681.2, require
“creditors,” as defined by 15 U.S.C. § 1681a(r)(5), to adopt red flag policies
to prevent and mitigate identity theft with respect to certain covered
accounts.
      (2)   Thus, the city has developed this program to comply with 16 C.F.R.
§ 681.2 in order to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft by identifying
and detecting identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a
manner which will prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 38.32 ADOPTION AND MODIFICATION OF PROGRAM.
   The city’s Identity Theft Prevention Program, the “program,” is hereby
adopted as set out herein. If the program shall be modified following the date
of the adoption of this subchapter, then the Common Council of the city shall
pass an ordinance which states that a new form of the program shall be adopted,
and a new form of the program containing the relevant modifications shall be
submitted as an exhibit to such future ordinance for inclusion in this code.
(Prior Code, § 17.04.030) (Ord. 2009-10, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 38.33 ENGAGING SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event the city engages a service provider to perform an activity in
connection with one or more accounts, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall exercise
his or her discretion in reviewing such arrangements in order to ensure, to the
best of his or her ability, that the service provider’s activities are
conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed upon by contract,
which are designed to detect any red flags which may arise in the performance
of the service provider’s activities and to take appropriate steps to prevent
or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 38.34 RISK ASSESSMENT AND IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The city has conducted an internal risk assessment to evaluate the
risk level of its current procedures with respect to allowing customers to
create a fraudulent account and to evaluate if current, existing accounts are
being wrongfully manipulated. This risk assessment evaluated how new accounts
were opened as well as the methods used to access account information. Using
this information, the city was able to identify red flags which were
appropriate situations to be evaluated to prevent identity theft.
   (B)   The identified red flags are:
      (1)   New accounts opened in person;
      (2)   New accounts opened via facsimile;
      (3)   New accounts opened via mail;
      (4)   Account information accessed in person;
      (5)   Account information accessed via telephone (person);
      (6)   New account opening or the accessing of account information by a
person other than the individual in whose name the account is currently, or was
previously, opened; and
      (7)   Identity theft which has occurred in the past, including as a
result of a person falsely opening a utility account.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 38.35 DETECTION.
   (A)   The city adopts the following red flags to detect potential fraud or
identity theft.
   (B)   The below-listed red flags are not intended to be all-inclusive, and
other suspicious activity may be investigated as deemed necessary in such
situation or situations:
      (1)   Fraud or active-duty alerts included with consumer reports;
      (2)   Notice of a credit freeze provided by consumer reporting agency;
      (3)   Notice of address discrepancy provided by consumer reporting
agency;
      (4)   Inconsistent activity patterns indicated by a consumer report, such
as:
         (a)   A recent and significant increase in volume of inquiries;
         (b)   An unusual number of recent credit applications;
         (c)   A material change in use of credit; or
         (d)   Accounts closed for cause or abuse.
      (5)   Identification documents appear to be altered or are illegible;
      (6)   Photo and physical description do not match the appearance of the
applicant;
      (7)   Applicant cannot provide proof that he or she is over 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Applicant cannot prove that he or she has any connection whatsoever
with the address associated with the relevant utility account, such as a lease,
contract, proof of address or residency or other document indicating a
connection between the applicant and the address associated with the utility
account;
      (9)   Other information is inconsistent with information provided by the
applicant;
      (10)   Other information provided by the applicant is inconsistent with
information on file;
      (11)   Application appears altered, destroyed or reassembled;
      (12)   Personal information provided by the applicant does not match
other sources of information, for example, the Social Security number is not
used or the holder of such Social Security number is listed as deceased;
      (13)   Lack of correlation between the Social Security number range and
date of birth;
      (14)   Information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity,
for example, the address or phone number provided is the same as that of a
fraudulent application;
      (15)   Information commonly associated with fraudulent activity is
provided by the applicant, such as an address that is a mail drop or prison
address, a nonworking telephone number or a telephone number associated with an
answering service or pager;
      (16)   Social Security number, address or telephone number is the same as
that of another customer or former customer, or such information is known to be
fraudulent or invalid, such as an address or telephone number that is known to
be nonexistent;
      (17)   Customer fails to provide all information requested;
      (18)   Personal information provided is not consistent with information
already on file for a customer;
      (19)   Applicant cannot provide information requested beyond what could
commonly be found in a purse or wallet; or
      (20)   Identity theft is actually reported or discovered.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 38.36 RESPONSE.
   (A)   All detections of suspicious red flags, or the taking of any of the
response mechanisms set forth in division (B) below, by any employee of the
city must be reported to the senior management official, that is, the City
Clerk-Treasurer, as soon as practicable.
   (B)   Any employee of the city who may suspect fraud or identity theft or
detect a red flag shall implement one or more of the following response
mechanisms, as applicable to the given situation:
      (1)   Ask the applicant for additional documentation or information;
      (2)   Refuse to open an account;
      (3)   Close an account;
      (4)   Refuse to close an account;
      (5)   Only after consultation with the City Clerk-Treasurer and the
city’s legal counsel, refuse to provide account information or personal
information associated with an account;
      (6)   Label or otherwise identify an account for further monitoring or
evaluation;
      (7)   Immediately cease efforts to collect against an account, either
permanently or temporarily;
      (8)   If a city employee becomes aware of suspected or actual fraudulent
use of a customer’s, former customer’s or potential customer’s identity, said
employee must notify the City Clerk-Treasurer immediately;
      (9)   The City Clerk-Treasurer may elect to notify law enforcement, which
law enforcement shall consist of either one or both of the City Police
Department or the State Police, and if an actual or attempted identity theft
occurs, then the City Clerk- Treasurer must notify both of such law enforcement
agencies; or
      (10)   Take any action or nonaction with respect to the applicable
situation which is recommended or ordered by the City Clerk-Treasurer after
consultation with the City Clerk-Treasurer regarding said situation.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 38.37 PERSONAL INFORMATION SECURITY PROCEDURES.
   The city shall adopt the following security procedures and requirements for
the purposes of attempting to prevent and mitigate identity theft:
   (A)   All new accounts must be opened in person at the City Building, 700
North Walnut Street, Hartford City, Indiana;
   (B)   Paper documents, files and hard copies of electronic media containing
secure information will be stored in locked file cabinets;
   (C)   Employees will not leave sensitive papers out on their desks when they
are away from their work areas;
   (D)   Employees will store files when leaving their work areas;
   (E)   Employees will log off from their computers when leaving their work
areas;
   (F)   Visitors who must enter areas where sensitive information or files are
kept must be escorted by an employee of the city;
   (G)   No visitor will be given any entry codes or allowed unescorted access
to the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer or the surrounding work areas;
   (H)   Access to sensitive information will be controlled using passwords;
employees shall choose passwords with a mix of letters, numbers and random
characters, user names and passwords shall not be identical and passwords will
be changed at least monthly;
   (I)   Passwords will not be shared or posted near work areas;
   (J)   Anti-virus and anti-spyware programs shall be run on individual
computers and on servers on a regular basis;
   (K)   When new software is installed, vendor- supplied default passwords
will be changed;
   (L)   The city’s computer network will have a firewall where the network
connects to the Internet;
   (M)   References will be checked and background checks will be done before
hiring employees who will have access to sensitive information;
   (N)   Access to a customer’s personal identifying information will be
limited to employees who “need to know,” and employees who do not “need to
know” such information will not be provided with access to such information;
   (O)   Procedures will be developed to ensure that employees of the city who
leave their employment with the city or transfer to another department of the
city no longer have access to sensitive information;
   (P)   Employees will be trained on a regular basis, not fewer than twice a
year;
   (Q)   Employees will be alerted of any occurrences of telephone or email
phishing; for the purposes of this section, PHISHING means the fraudulent
process of attempting to acquire sensitive information for the purpose of
identity theft by posing as a trustworthy entity in an electronic
communication;
   (R)   If paper records must be disposed of, then said paper records will be
shredded before the same are placed in the trash;
   (S)   If any data storage media must be disposed of, then said media shall
be shredded, have holes punched in said media’s body, be incinerated or
otherwise be made “unreadable” before being placed in the trash; and
   (T)   If a service provider shall perform an activity in connection with
city accounts, then the City Clerk-Treasurer shall exercise his or her
discretion in reviewing such arrangements in order to ensure, to the best of
his or her ability, that the service provider’s activities are conducted in
accordance with the program and with certain policies and procedures, agreed
upon by contract, which are designed to detect any red flags which may arise in
the performance of the service provider’s activities, and to take appropriate
steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 38.38 PERIODIC REVIEW AND UPDATING OF PROGRAM.
   (A)   The city shall monitor identity theft schemes and references reported
on the Internet and in mainstream media, such as radio and television, in order
to continually evaluate the effectiveness, adequacy and appropriateness of the
program. In addition, at least annually, that is, once per year, the city shall
review the program, and if deemed necessary, implement changes to the program,
which changes may be necessitated by evolving patters of identity theft or the
city’s actual experiences with identity theft during the period of time
immediately preceding the evaluation of the program.
   (B)   (1)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare an annual report
regarding the program and submit the same to the Board of Public Works and
Safety of the city. Said report shall include any and all information relative
to the program which the City Clerk- Treasurer deems, in his or her discretion,
to be relevant to the effectiveness, adequacy and appropriateness of the
program.
      (2)   Specifically, the aforementioned report shall address the
effectiveness of the policies and procedures set forth in the program and shall
provide a summary of any identity theft incident(s), if any, and the response
(s) to said incident(s), if any, taken by the city.
      (3)   In addition, said report shall include any recommendations that the
City Clerk-Treasurer has for changing, modifying, rewriting or reconsidering
any specific aspect of the program, if any.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 38.39 APPROVAL AND ADOPTION OF PROGRAM.
   The program has been reviewed and approved and is hereby adopted by the
Board of Public Works and Safety of the city. Furthermore, steps have been
taken to ensure that all appropriate and necessary employees have been trained
on the contents, procedures and other aspects of the program.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 6-1-2009)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES
      
51.   WATERWORKS
      
52.   SEWAGE TREATMENT
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Trash and garbage
   
50.02   Designated management agency for water pollution control
§ 50.01 TRASH AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   Residential collection service is not intended to handle significant
quantities of dirt, bricks, masonry, plaster and construction wastes or other
building materials without special arrangement, for which a service charge
shall be made.
   (B)   A fee schedule for such service which is based upon the time, labor
and equipment necessary for the pickup or collection will be provided upon
request.
(Res. 93-21, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 50.02 DESIGNATED MANAGEMENT AGENCY FOR WATER POLLUTION CONTROL.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city desires to be the approved
designated management agency for the control of water pollution sources within
its area of legal jurisdiction.
(Res. 1999-25, passed 8-16-1999)
CHAPTER 51: WATERWORKS
Section
Waterworks Department
   
51.01   Establishment
   
51.02   Administration
   
51.03   Waterworks Utility funds
   
51.04   Payment in lieu of taxes
   
51.05   Withdrawal from State Utility Regulatory Commission
Changes in Service
   
51.20   Original service connection
   
51.21   Disconnection of service
   
51.22   Reinstatement of service
   
51.23   Interruption of service
   
51.24   Authority for connections, shut-offs and reinstatements
Payment, Rates and Fees
   
51.35   Payment of bills
   
51.36   Rates and charges
   
51.37   Required deposits
   
51.38   Tap-in fees
   
51.39   Delinquent fees and penalties as liens
   
51.40   Payment violations
Policies and Procedures
   
51.55   Meter policies
   
51.56   Use of hydrants
   
51.57   Inspections
   
51.58   Resale of water prohibited
   
51.59   Extensions of mains
 
   
51.99   Penalty
WATERWORKS DEPARTMENT
§ 51.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Code, the city hereby establishes
through purchase and maintains a waterworks, together with the equipment and
appurtenances as may be necessary to serve the city and its inhabitants with
water for public and domestic use.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.010) (Ord. 28, passed 2-14-1895)
§ 51.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The administration of the Waterworks Department shall consist of a
Superintendent and an Assistant Superintendent, who shall be charged with the
operation and management of the waterworks. The officers shall receive such
compensation as the Board of Public Works and Safety and the Common Council may
from time to time determine.
   (B)   (1)   The Superintendent shall be appointed for a period of one year,
and until his or her successor is chosen by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Assistant Superintendent shall be appointed for a period of one
year, and until his or her successor is chosen by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
      (3)   The term of both officers shall begin on January 1. The officers
may be removed from office at any time for any misconduct involving a breach of
their duties.
   (C)   Before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, the person
appointed as Superintendent shall give bond in the sum of $2,000, conditioned
for the faithful discharge of his or her duties.
   (D)   Other employees of the waterworks may be hired and retained under
approval by and as the Board of Public Works and Safety may from time to time
determine.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.020) (Ord. 18, passed 10-29-1894; Res. 2006-05 (BOW),
passed 3-6-2006)
§ 51.03 WATERWORKS UTILITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The income and revenues of the waterworks, together with the income
and revenues of all extensions, additions and improvements thereto and
replacements thereof, shall be set aside into a separate and special fund to be
used and applied in the maintenance and operation thereof, in establishing a
Depreciation Account and in payment of the now- outstanding revenue bonds and
the revenue bonds authorized by subsequent ordinances. All ordinances
authorizing revenue bonds are adopted by reference in this code and are a part
of this code as though they were fully set out herein.
   (B)   The following funds and accounts are hereby established.
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Account. Forty-two and two-tenths percent
of the gross revenues of the waterworks shall be set aside and paid into the
Operation and Maintenance Account and be used to pay the necessary costs of
reasonable and proper operation and maintenance, and shall be applied
exclusively to that purpose until a surplus shall have been accumulated in the
Operation and Maintenance Account, which surplus shall be equal to the costs of
maintaining and operating the waterworks during the calender, operating or
fiscal year then next ensuing. Any excess over such surplus may be transferred
by the Common Council to either the Depreciation Account or the Bond and
Interest Redemption Account.
      (2)   Depreciation Account. Four and five-tenths percent of the gross
revenues of the waterworks shall be paid into the Depreciation Account and
shall be expended in making good depreciation in the waterworks or in new
construction, extensions or additions to the property of the waterworks. Any
accumulation in the Depreciation Account not required for immediate use may be
invested in direct obligations of the U.S. Government, and if so invested, then
the income from said investment shall accrue to the Depreciation Account. The
account shall not be used for any purpose other than as herein provided.
      (3)   Bond and Interest Redemption Account.
         (a)   Fifty-three and three-tenths percent of the gross revenues of
the waterworks shall, as the revenues are received, be set apart and paid into
a special account identified as the Bond and Interest Redemption Account. The
funds in said account identified as the bond and interest bonds, which by their
terms are payable from the revenues of the works and in the following order:
            1.   Paying the interest on and principal of the waterworks’s
refunding and improvement revenue bonds of 1955 in accordance with the terms
thereof;
            2.   Paying the interest on and principal of the bonds issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter in accordance with the terms hereof
and any bonds hereafter issued ranking on parity therewith; and
            3.   Paying the interest on and principal of any other bonds
payable from the revenues of the waterworks to the extent required for those
purposes.
         (b)   If, and when, a surplus shall be created in the Bond and
Interest Redemption Account which shall be of the interest on the principal of
the bonds, plus 10% which are payable during the then- current calender,
operating or fiscal year then together with the amount of interest on and
principal of the bonds will become due and payable during the calender,
operating or fiscal year then next ensuing, then the Common Council may
transfer any excess over the surplus to either the Operation and Maintenance
Account or to the Depreciation Account.
         (c)   Any excess over the required surplus may also be used in the
purchase or redemption of outstanding bonds prior to maturity at a price not
exceeding the then-applicable redemption price and on such terms as are
provided in the bonds.
         (d)   No further payments need to be made into the Bond and Interest
Redemption Account when the amount contained therein equals or exceeds the
amount of the principal of the bonds then outstanding and interest thereon to
the dates of maturity thereof.
   (C)   All of the funds of the several accounts shall be deposited in lawful
depositories of the city and shall either be continuously held and secured or
invested as provided by the laws of the state related to the depositing,
securing, holding and investing of public funds. In no event shall any of the
revenues of the waterworks be transferred or used for any purpose not
authorized by this chapter so long as any of the bonds issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall be outstanding.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.030) (Ord. 882, passed 4-1-1974; Ord. 1005, passed 11-10-
1980)
§ 51.04 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES.
   (A)   Upon approval of the State Public Service Commission, the city hereby
elects to require its municipal waterworks to pay to the city out of the income
of the municipal waterworks an amount each year sufficient to compensate the
city for the taxes which the city would receive if the municipal waterworks
were privately owned.
   (B)   The payment by the municipal waterworks shall be transferred to the
city’s General Fund as and when the same is received.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.035) (Ord. 1007, passed 1-10-1980)
§ 51.05 WITHDRAWAL FROM STATE UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   Effective October 5, 1992, the City Municipal Water Utility is hereby
removed from the jurisdiction of the State Utility Regulatory Commission.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.190) (Ord. 1355, passed 10-5-1992)
CHANGES IN SERVICE
§ 51.20 ORIGINAL SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a written request from a proposed customer, the Water
Department will locate the point to which the service connection will be
available and will furnish and run service pipe either to the curb line, the
inside line of the sidewalk or the customer’s property line, whichever will
provide the most convenient, safe and satisfactory location for the curb stop,
service box and meter in the judgment of the Water Department.
   (B)   The original service connection shall not be made until the customer
has paid in full the tap-in fee as set forth in §
51.38 of this chapter and also the deposit as set forth in §
51.37 of this chapter.
   (C)   No original service connection shall be made where pipes are, or will
be, constructed to carry water from a lot or plot of ground wherein the
connection is made to another lot or plot of ground, and in the future, each
lot or plot of ground shall have its own separate original service connection.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.070) (Ord. 1003, passed 9-8-1980) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of non-payment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
non-payment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for non- payment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
§ 51.22 REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   When water service is disconnected for nonpayment, the customer
shall be required to pay all delinquent bills and charges plus $60 as a
reinstatement charge.
      (2)   When water service is disconnected at the request of the customer
more than one time within any 12-month period, the customer shall pay $40 as a
reinstatement charge.
   (B)   All reinstatement charges shall be deposited into the waterworks’s
Operation and Maintenance Account and shall be treated as ordinary income for
the period collected.
   (C)   When water service is disconnected at a rental property:
      (1)   The property owner or landlord must agree to have the water service
reinstated;
      (2)   All fees must be paid in full by either the owner or the tenant,
including the extra $60 for reinstatement; and
      (3)   The property address must have a zero balance before service will
be reinstated at that address even if it is a new tenant.
   (D)   In such cases where the tenant pays the outstanding bill after the
property owner or landlord has paid the outstanding balance, the payment shall
be reimbursed to the landlord as the tenant is the user of the water.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.060) (Res. 2006-05 (BOW), passed 3-6-2006; Res. 2006-33
(BOW), passed 8-7-2006; Res. 2014-03, passed 3-3-2014)
Editor’s note:
   Division (A) was added or amended by a memorandum to the State Utility
Regulatory Commission from the Board of Public Works and Safety dated 12-8-
1988.
   Division (C) was added or amended by a memorandum to the State Utility
Regulatory Commission from the Board of Public Works and Safety dated 12-8-
1988, replacing Ord. 1003, passed 9-8-1980.
§ 51.23 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Water Department shall not be responsible for damages for any
failure to supply water service, any interruption of the water supply or any
defective piping on the customer’s premises, nor for damages resulting to a
customer or to third parties from the use of water or from the presence of the
Department’s appliances upon the customer’s premises, unless such is due to
fault, neglect or culpability on the part of the Water Department.
   (B)   Neither party shall be liable to the other for any failure or delay in
cases where the failure or delay is caused by strikes, acts of God or an
unavoidable accident or contingency that is beyond its control and not due to
fault, neglect or culpability upon its part.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.140) (Ord. 1003, passed 9-8-1980)
§ 51.24 AUTHORITY FOR CONNECTIONS, SHUT-OFFS AND REINSTATEMENTS.
   All original connections, all shut-offs and all reinstatements of service
shall be made by an employee of the Water Department. No connection, shut-off
or reinstallment shall be made by the customer or by any agent of the customer.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.080) (Ord. 1003, passed 9-8-1980) Penalty, see §
51.99
PAYMENT, RATES AND FEES
§ 51.35 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   Bills shall be rendered monthly and must be paid at the office of the Water
Department. If a bill is not paid in full within 15 days from and after the due
date as stated in the monthly bill, then the customer shall be considered
delinquent in payment and the Water Department shall lay a delinquency charge
of 10% of the first $3 of the amount billed and an additional 3% of that
portion of the bill in excess of $3.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.040) (Ord. 1003, passed 8-25-1980)
§ 51.36 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   All metered rates per 100 cubic feet per month, all minimum
monthly charges, all public fire protection charges per month and all private
fire protection charges are increased by 12% pro rata.
      (2)   The appropriate and applicable sections of this code pertaining to
the rates, fees and charges established and levied for services provided by the
waterworks of the city are amended, revised and established to be:
         (a)   Metered rates.
 
Metered Rates per 100 Cubic Feet per Month
First 600 cubic feet  $4.84
Next 700 cubic feet   $4.32
Next 1,300 cubic feet $3.54
Next 2,400 cubic feet $2.68
Over 5,000 cubic feet $1.98
 
         (b)   Monthly charges.
Minimum Monthly Charges
Minimum Monthly Charges
5/8-inch meter   $16.20
3/4-inch meter   $23.44
1-inch meter     $32.76
1-1/2-inch meter $68.90
2-inch meter     $117.40
3-inch meter     $201.97
4-inch meter     $310.05
6-inch meter     $826.77
8-inch meter     $1,376.65
 
         (c)   Public fire protection.
 
Public Fire Protection Charge per Month
5/8- and 3/4-inch meters      $3.55
1-inch meter size and greater $5.58
 
         (d)   Private fire protection.
 
Private Fire Protection
(per Hydrant per Annum)
Private hydrants     $275.56
Sprinkler connection $275.56
 
   (B)   (1)   (a)   No person or persons shall access water from any non-
metered or hydrant source owned and operated by the Water Utility without the
authorization of the Superintendent of the Water Utility even if the rate to be
levied is duly paid by the person or persons so accessing and obtaining water.
Accessing Water Utility water without proper authorization by the Water Utility
Superintendent shall result in a fine of $100 per incident of accessing over
and above the cost of the water per 100 cubic feet so obtained based upon the
fees established for metered customers. The City Attorney, under appropriate
circumstances, shall pursue criminal prosecution for theft in any and all cases
where it is deemed that unauthorized access to non-metered or hydrant sources
owned by the Water Utility was accomplished with the intent to steal the water
so obtained.
         (b)   Commencing on July 1, 2001, and thereafter, Water Utility
charges for water provided by the Utility at any site served by the Water
Utility shall be made to and paid by the property owner or owners of record of
that site as best determinable by the Water Utility Superintendent. Water
service shall not be provided to the property owner or owners of record if
there exists any arrears in payments at the site until all arrears in payments
are paid with penalties.
         (c)   Customers whose water meters have been turned off due to a
failure to pay the bill will be assessed a reconnection charge of $60, payable
prior to reconnection.
         (d)   No person or persons shall at any time or in any manner enter
into or manipulate the mechanisms within a water meter nor turn on or off any
mechanism placed by the Water Utility at any site without the express, written
permission of the Superintendent of the Water Utility.
      (2)   The provisions of the adopted budgets of the city for the General
Tax Fund and the budget of the Utility for the current year now in force and
being implemented notwithstanding, no payment or transfer from the utility to
the General Tax Fund of the city as payment in lieu of taxes shall be made
until all of the established funds of the Utility shall have on hand at least
in excess of 60 days of the average required daily operating balance, and
$20,000 in each of the properly-established funds for capital improvements or
maintenance on hand and available above and in excess of the amount adopted for
the current budget year as payment in lieu of taxes from the Utility to the
General Fund.
      (3)   Replacements and extensions shall appear as a line item in the
annual budget for the Water Utility, and a detailed plan of implementation
shall be submitted to the Common Council annually.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.180) (Ord. 1364, passed 2-8-1993; Ord. 2004-13, passed 12-
6-2004; Ord. 2006-15, passed 12-28-2006; Ord. 2012-04, passed 3-5-2012; Ord.
2019-04, passed 8-5-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.37 REQUIRED DEPOSITS.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to an original service connection, and also prior to the
establishment of service to a new customer at a premises upon transfer of the
possession of said real estate when the previous customer has requested a
discontinuance of service as provided for in §
51.21 of this chapter, the Department shall collect from the proposed customer
a cash deposit as follows.
      (2)   All other proposed new customers shall have their cash deposit
based upon the size of the water line from the Department’s water main to the
point on or near the customer’s premises as specified in this division (A)(2),
such schedule to be as follows.
 
Water Line Size           Deposit
5/8-inch or 3/4-inch line $200
1-inch to 1-1/2-inch line $200
2-inch line               $200
4-inch line               $200
6-inch line               $200
 
   (B)   At the discretion of the Department, a seasonal customer may be
required to pay a lesser cash deposit, which shall be equal to the estimated
water consumption of the customer to the season.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.170) (Ord. 1003, passed 9-8-1980; Ord. 1075, passed 3-4-
1985; Res. 2007-01 (BOW), passed 3-19-2007; Res. 2014-04, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 51.38 TAP-IN FEES.
   (A)   Prior to an original service connection, the Department shall collect
from the proposed customer the following tap-in fee based upon the size of the
line from the water main to the point on or near the customer’s premises, as
set forth in §
51.37 of this chapter, the fee being as follows.
   Water Line Size        Fee
5/8-inch or 3/4-inch line $500
1-inch line               Time and materials
1-1/4-inch line           Time and materials
1-1/2-inch line           Time and materials
2-inch line               Time and materials
4-inch line               Time and materials
6-inch line               Time and materials
 
   (B)   The tap-in fee shall be based upon the estimated cost of the water
meter service pipe from the main to the meter, curb box, valve pit and valve
box, the other materials and equipment used in making the installation and the
labor cost therefor. The tap-in fee for lines in excess of three-fourths inch
shall be the cost of time and materials, but in no case less than the fee for a
five-eighths-inch or three-fourths-inch line.
   (C)   All revenue derived from tap-in fees shall be deposited in the
Operation and Maintenance Account and shall be treated as ordinary income for
the period received. No part of the tap-in fee shall be returned to the
customer.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.160) (Ord. 1003, passed 9-8-1980)
§ 51.39 DELINQUENT FEES AND PENALTIES AS LIENS.
   Delinquent charges for Water Utility user fee rates, services, applied
penalties and recording fees constitute a lien upon the property and may be
collected in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23, as amended.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 3-5-2012) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.40 PAYMENT VIOLATIONS.
   The failure to pay a Water Utility user fee when due shall constitute a
violation of this chapter, which shall be enforced by the city and such persons
as the city may appoint for such purpose, and which shall also include the cost
of recovery, including attorney fees, other costs of collection and recording
fees.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 3-5-2012) Penalty, see §
51.99
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 51.55 METER POLICIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Water Department shall install a separate meter for each
customer.
      (2)   Where there now exists more than one customer using one meter, the
Water Department shall, as funds become available, install meters for each
customer.
      (3)   Neither shall be considered a new original connection requiring a
tap-in fee or deposit.
   (B)   (1)   The Department may, at its discretion, require the owner of any
multiple-family dwelling, commercial building or trailer park in which one
meter is currently installed and water consumption is less than the total
minimums for each separate tenant or family unit to install separate
connections with separate tenant or family units or install separate
connections with separate meters for each separate tenant or family unit, with
the owner to pay all of the expenses for the additional connections. The
connections are to be considered original connections, requiring a tap-in fee
or deposit. The Department may also require that until the owner of the
multiple-family dwelling, commercial building or trailer park in which one
meter is currently installed and consumption is less than the total minimums
for each separate tenant or family unit, to pay as much owner’s monthly bill an
amount equal to the monthly minimum bills for all separate tenants or family
units.
      (2)   Whenever any owner of real estate shall in the future construct or
remodel the improvements upon any real estate for use as a multiple-family
dwelling, commercial building or trailer park which is intended to be occupied
by more than one tenant or family unit, prior to obtaining any water connection
or, if there already is a connection, before permitting any tenant to use any
water after the completion of the construction or remodeling, the owner shall
install separate water connections for each tenant or family unit, and each
tenant or family unit shall be a separate consumer. Each separate apartment,
commercial premises or trailer space shall be considered to be a separate
customer, and a tap-in fee and deposit shall be paid for each of the same prior
to the establishment of the service.
   (C)   Whenever it is discovered that a meter is not recording within the
limits of accuracy prescribed by the Public Service Commission, the Department
shall adjust the customer’s bills in accordance with the rules prescribed by
the Public Service Commission. Any other adjustment will be determined by the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (D)   In the event of the failure of any meter, the Department shall bill
the customer for the average amount of water used during the six months
immediately preceding the failure until the meter can be replaced.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.110) (Ord 1003, passed 9-8-1980) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.56 USE OF HYDRANTS.
   No person shall take water from any hydrant, except for firefighting
purposes, except upon the written permission of the Superintendent and in the
presence of an employee of the Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.120) (Ord. 1003, passed 9-8-1980) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.57 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Water Department shall have the right to inspect all service
piping and water appurtenances within a customer’s premises at any reasonable
time.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall cover up or in any manner interfere with any
curb box, valve pit, valve box, water meter or hydrant.
      (2)   Any person who shall cause damage to any of these shall reimburse
the Water Department for the cost of the repair or replacement of the same,
including the costs of both materials and labor.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.100) (Ord. 1003, passed 9-8-1980) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.58 RESALE OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   Water shall not be furnished to any consumer, applicant or group of
applicants desiring service with the intent to or for the purpose of reselling
any part or all of the water to any other person or to any other premises.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.130) (Ord. 1003, passed 9-8-1980) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.59 EXTENSIONS OF MAINS.
   Whenever a water mains is extended upon the request of property owners, the
property owners shall execute contracts guaranteeing payments based upon the
cost of the extension or make payments of amounts as are in excess of the
investment warranted by estimated or guaranteed revenues in accordance with the
rules and standards for the extension as approved by the Public Service
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.150) (Ord. 1003, passed 9-8-1980)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Entering or manipulating Water Utility mechanisms. A violation of §
51.36(B)(1)(d) of this chapter shall result in a fine of $100 per violation
plus the actual and potential cost of damages to the mechanisms so manipulated.
Water service shall be withheld at the site of the offense until all fines and
costs are satisfactorily paid.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 3-5-2012)
CHAPTER 52: SEWAGE TREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Application of state discharge requirements
   
52.003   Protection of confidential information
   
52.004   Discharger record retention
   
52.005   Roof drain sewer system connections prohibited
Sewage Treatment Works
   
52.020   Establishment
   
52.021   Administration
   
52.022   Sewage works funds
Wastewater Discharge Rates and Charges
   
52.035   Rates and charges subject to user/user class
   
52.036   Billing and collection
   
52.037   Established rates and charges
   
52.038   Adjustments based on usage variations
   
52.039   Surcharges based on discharge strength or character
   
52.040   Annual studies to evaluate rates and charges
   
52.041   Charges for excess-strength waste
   
52.042   Tap-in fees
   
52.043   Changes in policy; special rate contracts
Wastewater Discharge Policies
   
52.055   Prohibited discharges
   
52.056   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.057   Pretreatment policies and requirements
   
52.058   Nuisance abatement
Wastewater Discharge Permits and Fees
   
52.070   Reporting
   
52.071   Permit types
   
52.072   Permit applications
   
52.073   Industrial user fees
   
52.074   Permit conditions
   
52.075   Permit durations
   
52.076   Permit extensions
Wastewater Discharge Monitoring and Reporting
   
52.090   Wastewater volume determination
   
52.091   Monitoring facilities
   
52.092   Oil and grease testing
   
52.093   Required report types
Privies, Vaults, Cesspools and Septic Tanks
   
52.105   Waste restrictions
   
52.106   Construction restrictions
   
52.107   Required water-flush systems
   
52.108   Private sewage disposal operations
   
52.109   Written notice of violations
 
   
52.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General utilities, see
Chapter 50
   Storm water,
Chapter 154
   Waterworks, see
Chapter 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 32
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and all subsequent amendments thereunto, as well as any
guidelines, limitations and standards promulgated by the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the ACT.
   AGENCY. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city or its designated
representative.
   AMOUNTS FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND EXPANSION.
      (1)   Amounts which represent a minimum of 80% of the amount retained by
the city together with the interest earned thereon.
      (2)   These AMOUNTS shall be used solely for the eligible costs of the
expansion or reconstruction of treatment works associated with the project and
necessary to meet the requirements of the Act. The city shall obtain the
written approval of the Regional Administrator of the EPA prior to the
commitment of the retained amounts for any expansion and reconstruction.
      (3)   The remaining 20% of retained amounts may be used at the discretion
of the city.
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard, whether federal, state or local, contained in this chapter and
considered to be the most restrictive with which non-domestic users will be
required to comply.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in a National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) state with an approved state pretreatment program or
the Administrator of the EPA in a non- NPDES state without an approved state
pretreatment program.
   AVERAGE MONTHLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of
“daily discharges” over a calender month, calculated as the sum of all daily
discharges measured during a calendar month divided by the number of daily
discharges measured during that month.
   AVERAGE WEEKLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of “daily
discharges” over a calendar week, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges
measured during a calendar week divided by the number of daily discharges
measured during that week.
   BENEFICIAL USES. Uses which include, but are not limited to, domestic,
municipal, agricultural and industrial uses, power generation, recreation,
aesthetic enjoyment, navigation and the preservation and enhancement of fish,
wildlife and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other uses both tangible
or intangible as specified by state or federal law.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city or its designated
representative.
   BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five consecutive days at 20º, expressed in milligrams per liter, as defined in
Standard Methods; herein referred to as BOD.
   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
a community sewer.
   CITY. The City of Hartford City, Indiana, acting by and through the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The oxygen-consuming capacity of inorganic
and organic matter present as measured by a standard chemical oxidation
procedure, defined in Standard Methods.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMMUNITY SEWER. A sewer owned and operated by the Agency or a city or other
public agency tributary to a treatment facility by said agency.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Organic pollutants, suspended solids which can be
removed by filtration or settlement or phosphorus, plus additional pollutants
identified in the Agency’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit if the publicly-owned treatment works was both designed to treat
such pollutants and in fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial
degree.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A COMPOSITE SAMPLE should contain a minimum of eight
discrete samples taken at equal time intervals over the compositing period or
proportional to the flow rate over the composition period. More that the
minimum number of discrete samples will be required where the wastewater
loading is highly variable.
   CONTAMINATION. Any impairment of the quality of waters such that said waters
do not meet the minimum criteria of the State Pollution Control Board.
CONTAMINATION shall include any equivalent effect resulting from the disposal
of wastewater, whether or not waters of the state are affected.
   CRITICAL USERS. Any users whose user classifications are identified in the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual of the federal government in any
Division A, B, D, E or I, and who:
      (1)   Has a discharge flow of 50,000 gallons or more per day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the Agency’s wastewater
treatment system;
      (3)   Has in his or her waste pollutants found in standards issued under
§ 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); or
      (4)   Is found by the Agency to have a significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on the treatment or
collection systems.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or
any 24-hour period which reasonably represents the calendar day for the
purposes of sampling.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   ELIGIBLE CAPITAL COSTS. That portion of the federal share of the EPA Grant
(No. C180625-03) which is allocated to industrial users.
   EPA or U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or other duly-authorized official of the
Agency.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. An additional charge billed to users for
treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal domestic
sewage.
   FEDERAL GRANT AMOUNTS. That portion of the total construction costs for
Project No. C180625-03.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooling
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of products.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   GROUND GARBAGE or SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage which is shredded to such a
degree that all particles will be carried freely in suspension under the
conditions normally prevailing in the sewage system, with no particle being
greater than one-half inch in dimension.
   I/I or INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant as
defined in this section.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial or commercial establishment which discharges
industrial, or process, wastewater to a publicly-owned treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge industrial waste
into any sanitary sewer as issued by the POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including service
connections from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellars,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers
and combined sewers, catch basins, storm water, surface runoff, street wash
waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include and is distinguished from
infiltration.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes which may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   INTERFERENCE. Inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment process or
operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the city’s
NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of the requirements of sewage sludge
use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. §
1345, or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the
Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., or more stringent
state criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the
Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or more
stringent state criteria, including those contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of the SWDA which are applicable
to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   MASS EMISSION RATE. The weight of material discharged to the sewer system
during a given time interval. Unless otherwise specified, the MASS EMISSION
RATE shall mean pounds per day of a particular constituent or combination of
constituents.
   MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. The highest allowable daily discharge.
   METHODS FOR CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. The methods for the chemical analysis of
water and wastes as defined by the EPA.
   MONITORED INDUSTRY. An industry required to obtain a wastewater discharge
permit pursuant to §§
52.070 through
52.076 of this chapter shall be a MONITORED INDUSTRY.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and 307(c) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b) and
(c), which applies to a specific category of industrial users.
   NEW SOURCE. Any source the construction of which is started after the
publication of proposed regulations stating that a categorical pretreatment
standard will be applicable to such source, provided that the standard is
promulgated within 120 days of its proposal in the Federal Register. Where the
standard is promulgated later than 120 days after its proposal, a NEW SOURCE
means any source the construction of which is started afer the date of
promulgation of the standard.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC USAGE (WASTES).
      (1)   Wastewater and sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 250 milligrams per liter; and
         (b)   SS not more than 15 milligrams per liter.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated, domestic or
sanitary conveniences are distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES PERMIT. A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit,
which sets the conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Pub. Law
No. 95-217, § 402, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to health, indecent or offensive to
the senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere
with the comfort or enjoyment of life or property, or which affects at the same
time an entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon individuals may
be unequal.
   O & M. Operation and maintenance.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COST. All costs, both direct and indirect, which
are necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and
treatment on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters
which conform with all related federal, state and local requirements. These
costs include replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt charges and excessive
strength surcharges.
   PAYMENT TO THE U.S. TREASURY. The portion of the recovered amount which must
be returned to the U.S. Treasury on an annual basis. The annual payments to the
U.S. Treasury amount to 50% of the annual recovered amount together with the
interest earned thereon.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group or agency of government.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by wastes
to a degree which unreasonably affects such waters for beneficial uses or the
facilities which serve such beneficial uses. POLLUTION may include
contamination.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   PROJECT NO. C-180625. A separate construction project for the construction
of the City Municipal Sewage Works. This project does not include past or
future construction, equipment or other services not included in the specific
project number and the approved plans.
   RECOVERED AMOUNTS. The annual payment from industrial users for their share
of the federal grant allocable to the cost of treating industrial waste, which
is determined by dividing the amount of the total federal grant allocable to
the treatment of industrial waste by the recovery period.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditure for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works in order to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed.
   RETAINED AMOUNTS. The portion of the recovered amounts retained by the city.
The RETAINED AMOUNTS shall be equal to 50% of the recovered amounts together
with the interest earned thereon.
   SANITARY SEWER. Any sewer which carries sewage and industrial wastes, and to
which storm water, surface water and groundwater are not intentionally
admitted.
   SEGREGATED DOMESTIC WASTES. Wastes from nonresidential sources resulting
from normal domestic activities and measurable and set apart from industrial,
trade or process discharges.
   SHALL and MAY. Shall is mandatory. May is permissive.
   SIC. An industrial classification based on the 1972 edition of the Standard
Industrial Classifications Manual prepared by the federal government.
   SLUDGE. The settleable solids separated from liquids during processing or
the deposits of foreign materials on the bottoms of streams or other bodies of
water.
   SLUG. Any discharge of sewage or industrial wastewater which in concentrates
of any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the
average 24-hour concentration of flow during normal operations.
   SS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which are visible and in suspension in the
liquid as defined by the Standard Methods.
   STANDARD METHODS. The Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   STORM SEWER. Any sewer which carries storm water and surface water and
drainage, but which excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which, upon exposure to any organism, will cause adverse effects such as
cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations as defined in the
standards issued pursuant to Pub. Law No. 95-217, § 307(a), being 33 U.S.C. §
1317(a).
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Those substances referred to in § 307(a) of the Act, being
33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), as well as any other known potential substances capable of
producing toxic effects.
   TTO or TOTAL TOXIC ORGANIC. The sum of the masses or concentrations of
specific toxic organic compounds found in an industrial user’s process
discharge at a concentration greater than 0.01 milligrams per liter. Each
categorical standard lists the specific toxic organic compounds to be included
in the summation to define TTO for the category.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the applicable standard due to
factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger, and excluding
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly-designed
treatment facilities, inadequate facilities, lack of preventative maintenance
or careless or improper operation of the facilities.
   USER.
      (1)   Any residential, commercial, governmental, institutional or
industrial person whose establishment is connected to the community sewer
system. The following classification of USERS is hereby established.
         (a)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment listed in the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual of the federal government which is involved in
a commercial enterprise, business or service which, based on a determination by
the city, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
         (b)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user
of the treatment works.
         (c)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any non- governmental user of the treatment
works identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual of the
federal government under the following divisions:
            1.   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
            2.   Division B: Mining;
            3.   Division D: Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E: Transportation, Electric, Communications, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
            5.   Division I: Services.
         (d)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment listed in the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual of the federal government involved in social,
charitable, religious or educational functions with primarily segregated
domestic wastes or wastes discharged from sanitary conveniences.
         (e)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises
or building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units.
      (2)   A Division A, B, D, E or I INDUSTRIAL USER may be excluded if it is
determined that such user will introduce primarily segregated domestic waste
from sanitary conveniences.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users for the cost of operation and
maintenance of such works.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment by source, function, waste
characteristics and process, or by discharge similarities, such as residential,
commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental in the user charge
system and as industrial and nonindustrial in the industrial cost recovery
system.
   WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. The system of sewers owned, maintained,
operated and controlled by the Agency.
(Ord. 972, passed 2-14-1978; Ord. 974, passed 2-14-1978; Ord. 975, passed 2-14-
1978; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.002 APPLICATION OF STATE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges apply in any case where
they are more stringent than federal requirements or those contained in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.003 PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data furnished to the Agency with respect to the
nature and frequency of discharge will be made available to the public or other
governmental agencies without restriction unless the discharger specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Agency that the
release of such information would divulge information and methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets or proprietary information of the
discharger.
   (B)   (1)   When requested by a discharger furnishing a report, the portions
of a report which may disclose trade secrets or secret processes will not be
made available for inspection by the public, but will only be made available
upon a written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this
chapter, the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit,
State Disposal System permit or the pretreatment program, provided, however,
that such portions of a report will be available for use by any agency of the
state in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the discharger
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be
recognized as confidential information.
      (2)   Information accepted by the Agency as confidential will not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the Agency
unless a ten-day notification is given to the discharger.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.004 DISCHARGER RECORD RETENTION.
   (A)   All dischargers subject to local, state or federal regulations must
retain and preserve for at least three years any records, books, documents,
memoranda, reports, correspondence and any and all summaries related to
monitoring, sampling and chemical analyses made by or on behalf of a discharger
in connection with its discharge.
   (B)   All records which pertain to matters which are the subject of any
enforcement or litigation activities brought by the Agency must be retained and
preserved by the discharger until all enforcement activities have concluded and
all periods of limitation concerning any appeals have expired.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 ROOF DRAIN SEWER SYSTEM CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   From and after January 1, 1990, no roof drain which is now presently
or may hereafter be connected to any drain entering the sewer system of the
city shall remain connected to the sewer system, and all owners of property
shall take appropriate steps to disconnect roof drains from the city sewer
system prior to January 1, 1990.
   (B)   It is the intention of the Common Council of the city that all such
drains shall be permitted to discharge their water onto the ground rather than
into a sewer of any kind which connects with the city sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 15.08.010) (Ord. 1244, passed 7-31-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
SEWAGE TREATMENT WORKS
§ 52.020 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Ch. 61 of the Acts of the General Assembly of
the state for the year 1932 et seq., the city establishes, equips, owns,
operates and maintains a sewage treatment works together with such equipment
and appurtenances as may be necessary or useful and convenient for the
collection, treatment, purification and disposal in a sanitary manner of sewage
and industrial wastes of the city, including the necessary lands, rights-of-way
or property within or without the city limits.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.021 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The general administration of the sewage works shall be under
the direction of the Superintendent of the Sewage Treatment Works, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor.
      (2)   There shall also be appointed a full-time Engineer of the sewage
works, who shall work under the general supervision of the Superintendent.
      (3)   There shall also be a position in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
to be known as Sewage Clerk. Such position shall be responsible for keeping the
records of the sewage works under the supervision of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   Other employees of the sewage works may be retained from time to
time as the Common Council may determine.
   (B)   The salaries of all employees of the sewage works shall be determined
from time to time by the Council.
(Ord. 420, passed 9-5-1939; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.022 SEWAGE WORKS FUNDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Acts of the General Assembly, a fund known as the
Sewage Works Bond and Redemption Fund is hereby established, into which there
shall be set aside from revenues such an amount as will be sufficient to pay
the interest and principal of bonds issued on account of said sewage works.
There is also hereby established a Sewage Works Operating Fund for the
construction, repair, operation and maintenance of the sewage treatment works.
   (B)   Payments into the Sewage Works Bond and Redemption Fund shall be made
as provided in the schedule of bond payments under any outstanding bond issued
and as the Council from time to time determines.
   (C)   The office of the Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for maintaining all
records of receipts and disbursements for the sewage works, including all
transactions involving the Sewage Works Bond and Redemption Fund and any other
funds which may from time to time be established.
   (D)   The city shall account for all industrial cost recovery payments in
the following manner.
      (1)   All revenues derived from the industrial cost recovery rates and
charges shall be segregated and kept in a special fund separate and apart from
all other funds of the city. The special fund shall be designated the Sewage
Works Industrial Cost Recovery Fund, and payment of said amounts into said Fund
shall be deemed a reasonable expense of operation of the sewage works for the
purpose of computing net operating revenue.
      (2)   Within 45 days following the end of the first calendar year after
the completion of construction of the sewage facilities and annually
thereafter, the city shall return 50% of the amounts recovered through the
industrial cost recovery charges, together with any interest earned thereon, to
the U.S. Treasury. Pending use, the city shall invest the retained amounts for
reconstruction and expansion in:
         (a)   Obligations of the U.S. Government;
         (b)   Obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U.S.
Government or any agency thereof; or
         (c)   Shall deposit such amounts in accounts fully collateralized by
obligations of the U.S. Government or by obligations fully guaranteed as to
principal and interest by the U.S. Government or any agency thereof.
      (3)   Eighty percent of the funds retained by the city in the Sewage
Works Industrial Cost Recovery Fund or the authorized investments and the
interest earned thereon shall be expended only for the purpose of eligible
costs of expansion or reconstruction of the treatment works. The city shall
obtain the written approval of the Regional Administrator of the U.S. EPA prior
to commitment of the retained 20% of the funds retained by the city, which may
be utilized for any authorized use associated with the sewage works.
(Ord. 414, passed 8-1-1938; Res. passed 1-4-1943; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-
2020)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.035 RATES AND CHARGES SUBJECT TO USER/USER CLASS.
   (A)   Every person whose premises is serviced by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
and user class by revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment
works in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the costs
of operation and maintenance, including replacement, of the treatment works.
User charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class. The sewage
rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water used on or in the
property or premises subject to such rates and charges as the same is measured
by the water meter there in use plus a base charge based on the size of the
water meter installed, except as herein otherwise provided.
   (B)   Water meters will be read once each month or period equaling a month.
The water usage schedule on which the amount of said rates and charges shall be
determined is as follows.
      (1)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as published in the Federal Register
on August 21, 1973, 38 C.F.R. part 22523, and on February 11, 1974, 39 C.F.R.
part 5252.
      (2)   Replacement costs, which are recovered through the system of user
charges, shall be based upon the expected service life of the sewer works plant
and equipment.
      (3)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purpose
of this chapter shall be as follows:
         (a)   Class I: Nonindustrial:
            1.   Single-family residential;
            2.   Multiple-family dwellings on a single meter;
            3.   Commercial;
            4.   Governmental;
            5.   Institutional; and
            6.   Wholesale residential.
         (b)   Class II: Industrial.
(Ord. 974, passed 2-14-1978; Ord. 1110, passed 7-7-1986; Ord. 2020-02, passed
6-1-2020)
§ 52.036 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   All rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the
city in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all sewers shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   (1)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from liability in the
event that payment is not made as herein required.
      (2)   The owners of properties served which are occupied by a tenant or
tenants shall have the right to examine the collection records of the city for
the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid by such tenant or
tenants, provided that such examination shall be made at the office at which
said records are kept and during the hours that such office is open for
business.
   (D)   As provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the rates or charges
shall thereupon be attached thereto. The time at which such rates or charges
shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing the bill.
(Ord. 974, passed 2-14-1978; Ord. 1110, passed 7-7-1986; Ord. 2020-02, passed
6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.037 ESTABLISHED RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of and the services rendered by said sewage works, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building which is connected with the sanitary system of the
city.
   (B)   Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows.
      (1)   User charge.
 
User Charge, Rate per 100 Cubic Feet
User Class            Billed Flow I/I   Industrial   Total User Charge
                                        Surveillance
Industrial            $1.47       $0.08 $0           $1.55
Monitored industrial  $0          $0    $0           $0
Residential and other $1.47       $0.26 $0           $1.73
nonindustrial
 
      (2)   Debt service charge.
 
Debt Service Charge, Rate per 100 Cubic Feet
User Class            Billed Flow I/I   Total Dept Service Total Flow Charge
Industrial            $0.43       $0.02 $0.45              $2.00
Monitored industrial  $0          $0    $0                 $0
Residential and other $0.43       $0.07 $0.50              $2.23
nonindustrial
 
      (3)   Monthly base rate charge.
Monthly Base Rate User Charge
Water Meter Size Billing Charge Sewer Charge Debt Service Charge Total
Monthly Base Rate User Charge
Water Meter Size Billing Charge Sewer Charge Debt Service Charge Total
5/8-inch         $2.59          $3.61        $0                  $6.20
3/4-inch         $2.59          $5.06        $0                  $7.65
1-inch           $2.59          $9.03        $0                  $11.62
1-1/2-inch       $2.59          $20.94       $0                  $23.53
2-inch           $2.59          $36.10       $0                  $38.69
3-inch           $2.59          $83.03       $0                  $85.62
4-inch           $2.59          $144.40      $0                  $146.99
6-inch           $2.59          $328.51      $0                  $331.10
 
   (C)   For the services rendered to the city, said city shall be subject to
the same rates and charges as herein provided in this section.
(Ord. 974, passed 2-14-1978; Ord. 1110, passed 7-7-1986; Ord. 1992-1356, passed
1-20-1992; Ord. 1997-1431, passed 9-2-1997; Ord. 2013-09, passed 6-3-2013; Ord.
2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.038 ADJUSTMENTS BASED ON USAGE VARIATIONS.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility which services the city shall be
determined by the city in such a manner as the city shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the appropriate rates as found in §
52.037 of this chapter.
   (B)   Furthermore, as is hereinafter provided in this division (B), the city
may make proper allowance in determining the sewage bill for quantities of
water which are shown on the records to be consumed, but which are also shown
to the satisfaction of the city to not enter the sanitary sewage system.
      (1)   In the event that a lot, parcel of real estate or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the
city’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of
water supplied by the water utility serving the city and the water used thereon
or therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter
not acceptable to the city, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the city. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this chapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his or
her expense, install and maintain meters, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the city for the
determination of sewage discharge. If there is no meter or any adequate and
approved method of measurement for residential lots or residential parcels of
real estate, then the service charge for the sewage service shall be $12 per
month.
      (2)   In the event that a lot, parcel of real estate or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the
city’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of
water supplied by the water utility serving the city and, in addition, is
measured by a meter not acceptable to the city, then the amount of water used
shall be otherwise measured or determined by the city. In order to ascertain
the rates or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his or
her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices
or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the city for
the determination of sewage discharge.
(Ord. 974, passed 2-14-1978; Ord. 1110, passed 7-7-1986; Ord. 2020-02, passed
6-1-2020)
§ 52.039 SURCHARGES BASED ON DISCHARGE STRENGTH OR CHARACTER.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitable
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the city shall base its charge not
only on the volume but also on the strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
The city shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all
sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary
sewage system in such a manner and by such a method as the city may deem
practicable, in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the
case, in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central
sampling point available to the city at all times.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.25 per pound for suspended solids received in excess of
250 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.25 per pound for biochemical oxygen demand received in excess of 250
milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (3)   Rate surcharge based upon ammonia. There shall be an additional
charge of $2.50 per pound of ammonia received in excess of 15 milligrams per
liter of fluid.
      (4)   Rate surcharge based upon oil and grease. There shall be an
additional charge of $1 per pound of oil and grease received in excess of 25
milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (5)   Rate surcharge based upon metals. There shall be an additional
charge of $10 per pound of metals received in excess of the proposed limits as
set out in §
52.055 of this chapter.
      (6)   Rate surcharge based upon pH.
         (a)   There shall be an additional charge of $1 per 0.10 standard unit
of pH received in excess of the parameters below 6.0 standard units or over 9.0
standard units.
         (b)   The formula to be used is as follows: flow x 0.006238 x
(measured standard unit - allowed standard unit) x rate for high pH (>9.0) and
flow x 0.006238 x (allowed standard unit - measured unit) x rate for low pH
(<6.0).
      (7)   Rate surcharge based upon miscellaneous parameters. There shall be
a charge of $1 per pound or a minimum charge of $100 per violation of any
miscellaneous parameters as determined by the city.
      (8)   Charge for violation of limitations. For each parameter in
violation of the limitations, a $100 minimum charge will be assessed in
addition to the applicable surcharge.
   (B)   The determination of all measured parameters contained in the waste
shall be in accordance with the latest copy of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as written by the American
Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water
Pollution Control Federation, and in conformance with Guidelines Establishing
Test Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants, regulation 40 C.F.R. part 136,
the Federal Register of October 16, 1973.
(Ord. 974, passed 2-14-1978; Ord. 1110, passed 7-7-1986; Ord. 1424, passed 4-7-
1997; Ord. 2004-16, passed 1-5-2005; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty,
see §
52.999
§ 52.040 ANNUAL STUDIES TO EVALUATE RATES AND CHARGES.
   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain fair and
equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing said services, the city
shall, on an annual basis and within a reasonable period of time following the
normal accounting period, cause a study to be made which shall include, but not
be limited to, an analysis of the industrial users, the financial position of
the sewage works and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds
for operation and maintenance, replacements, debt service, requirements and
capital improvements to the treatment system. These annual studies shall be
conducted by officers or employees of the city, by a firm of certified public
accountants or a firm of consulting engineers, which firms shall have
experience in such studies, or by a combination of officers, employees,
certified public accountants or engineers.
(Ord. 974, passed 2-14-1978; Ord. 1110, passed 7-7-1986; Ord. 2020-02, passed
6-1-2020)
§ 52.041 CHARGES FOR EXCESS-STRENGTH WASTE.
   (A)   In addition to the regular sewage service charge, each nonresidential
user discharging wastes into the community sewer shall be subject to a
surcharge which is based on:
      (1)   The BOD and SS content of the wastes if the wastes have a
concentration higher than 250 milligrams per liter of BOD or 250 milligrams per
liter of SS;
      (2)   Concentrations of oil and grease greater than 25 milligrams per
liter;
      (3)   Concentrations of ammonia greater than 15 milligrams per liter;
      (4)   Concentrations of pH less than 6.0 or greater than 9.0; or
      (5)   Concentrations of metals as set forth in §
52.055(D)(4) of this chapter.
   (B)   The discharged sewage will be sampled during each sewage bill period
for a minimum one-day period, or 24 continuous hours, by means of composite
samples. An extended sampling period of up to one week, or seven continuous
days, or a reduction may be requested to enable the gathering of a sample
representative of a business’s sewage. The extension or reduction of the period
beyond the initial one-day period may be requested by either the sewer user
involved or the Agency. If an extended period is requested, then the parameter
values used to calculate the surcharge will be the arithmetical average of the
individual values.
      (1)   In the event that a business or industry has multiple discharges,
each discharge shall be determined by actual measurement or by means of process
usage. If significant process changes are made to affect the quality of any
discharge, resampling may be requested by either the sewer user involved or the
Agency.
      (2)   The sewage sample shall be measured for the parameters set forth in
division (A) above. These tests shall be made in accordance with the Standard
Methods and Methods for Chemical Analysis.
   (C)   The excess pounds of each parameter set forth in division (A) above
will be computed by multiplying the hundreds of cubic feet of metered flow
during the billing period by the factor 0.006238, with 100 cubic feet of water
weighing 623.8 pounds, and then multiplying the difference between the
concentration measured in milligrams per liter of said parameter in the
customer’s sewage and the allowed concentrations set out in §
52.055(D) of this chapter, resulting in pounds of each by the appropriate rate
surcharge.
(Ord. 972, passed 2-14-1978; Ord. 2004-16, passed 1-5-2005; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.042 TAP-IN FEES.
   (A)   Prior to an original service connection, the Department shall collect
from the proposed customer the following tap-in fee based upon the size of the
line for the lateral to the city’s sewer to the point on or near the customer’s
premises, as follows:
      (1)   Lateral to city’s sewer, residential: $717.59; and
      (2)   Lateral to city’s sewer, industrial: Time and materials, but not
less than $717.59.
   (B)   The tap-in fees shall be based upon the cost of the materials to make
the tap as well as the equipment and labor required in making said tap.
   (C)   All revenue derived from tap-in fees shall be deposited in the Sewage
Operating Fund and shall be treated as ordinary income for the period received.
No part of such tap-in fee shall be returned to the customer.
(Ord.1424, passed 4-7-1997; Ord. 2012-05, passed 3-5-2012; Ord. 2020-02, passed
6-1-2020)
§ 52.043 CHANGES IN POLICY; SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The city shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
city’s sewage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage system and
for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such rates and
charges. The city is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping into the city’s
sewage system which, in its discretion, is deemed harmful to the operation of
the sewage treatment works of said city or to require methods affecting the
pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to
the sewage works.
   (B)   The Board is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers with the sewage works where clearly-definable
reductions in cost to the sewage works can be determined, and such reduction
shall be limited to such reduced costs. Such proposed contracts shall be
subject to the approval of the Common Council of the city.
(Ord. 974, passed 2-14-1978; Ord. 1110, passed 7-7-1986; Ord. 2020-02, passed
6-1-2020)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE POLICIES
§ 52.055 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer any storm water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage or unaltered water.
   (B)   No person shall discharge to the community sewer system any waste
which causes, threatens to cause or is capable of causing either alone or by
interaction with other substances:
      (1)   A pollutant which could create a fire or explosion hazard in the
POTW, including waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140ºF,
using the test methods in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Obstruction of flow in a sewer system resulting in injury to the
system or damage to the wastewater collection, treatment or disposal
facilities;
      (3)   Danger to the life or safety of personnel;
      (4)   A nuisance or prevention of the effective maintenance or operation
of the sewer system through having a strong, unpleasant odor;
      (5)   A pollutant which could result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity which may cause acute worker
health and safety problems;
      (6)   Interference with wastewater treatment processes;
      (7)   Wastewater treatment plant effluent, or any other product of the
treatment process, such as residues, sledges or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation or reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process;
      (8)   Discoloration, or any other condition in the quality of the
wastewater treatment effluent, in such a manner that receiving water quality
requirements established by law cannot be met if the wastewater treatment plant
is functioning properly; or
      (9)   Quantities or rates of flow which overload the wastewater treatment
plant or collection facilities after receipt of notice by the Agency.
   (C)   Any pollutant, including oxygen-demanding pollutants, released in a
discharge at a flow rate or pollutant concentration which will cause
interference with the wastewater treatment plant.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
specifically-described substances, materials, fluids or solids which may harm
sanitary sewers, sewage treatment processes and equipment, have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream or otherwise endanger life, limb or public
property or constitute a nuisance without the specific written permission of
the Agency. Such permission is subject to termination at any time upon written
notice. The prohibited substances are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF or with
a temperature which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment plant, resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater with a
temperature which will cause the raw wastewater in the influent to the
wastewater treatment plant to exceed 104ºF;
      (2)   Any liquid fats, wax, grease or oils of mineral or petroleum
origin, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 25 milligrams per liter or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between 32ºF and 150ºF;
      (3)   Garbage which is not generated in the preparation of food normally
consumed on the premises. All garbage shall be properly shredded to dimensions
smaller than one-half inch and shall be carried freely under normal flow
conditions. Garbage grinders shall not be used for grinding plastics, paper
products, inert materials or garden refuse;
      (4)   Any fluid or solid containing objectionable or toxic substances
which exceed the established daily limits for such materials. Unless more
restrictive limits are established by a regulatory agency having jurisdiction,
the following concentrations shall not be exceeded in the appropriate sample
type for the pollutant in question. All limits are based on total
concentration, milligrams per liter, unless otherwise noted. The concentration
shall be measured at the industry’s sampling manhole.
Substance Concentration
Substance      Concentration
Arsenic        0.3
Cadmium        0.3
Copper         3.5
Cyanide        0.2
Lead           1.5
Mercury        0.05
Molybdenum     0.5
Nickel         2.8
PCBs           Banned
Selenium       0.2
Total Chromium 4.0
Zinc           4.0
 
      (5)   Any fluid or solid in such concentration so as to exceed limits
which may be established by the Agency or any other public agency having
jurisdiction;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by state or federal regulations;
      (7)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel of the system unless said system is
specifically designed to accommodate such wastewater;
      (8)   A solid or viscous pollutant in an amount which could cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of
the POTW;
      (9)   Any slug load, including any oxygen- demanding pollutants, released
in a single extraordinary discharge episode of such volume or strength so as to
cause interference to the POTW;
      (10)   Limitations on wastewater strengths in this section may be
supplemented with more stringent limitations if:
         (a)   The Agency determines that the lesser limits do not provide
sufficient protection for the waste treatment system; or
         (b)   The Agency determines that the lesser limits may not be
sufficient to enable the treatment plant to comply with water quality standards
or effluent limitations specified in the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit.
      (11)   A truck or hauled pollutant, except:
         (a)   With the permission of the POTW; and
         (b)   When introduced to the POTW at a discharge point designated by
the POTW.
   (E)   No person shall discharge any substances directly into a manhole or
other opening in a community sewer, other than through an approved building
sewer, unless upon written application by the user, payment of the applicable
user charges and fees and authorization by the Agency.
   (F)   Except to the extent that it may be preempted by the acts of the state
or federal agencies pursuant to state and federal laws, rules or regulations,
the Agency may prohibit any connection to the community sufficient capacity in
all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and treatment plants,
including capacity for BOD and SS to accommodate the effluent from said
connection.
      (1)   Wastewater strength containing CBOD in excess of 380 milligrams per
liter; or
      (2)   Wastewater strength containing TSS in excess of 390 milligrams per
liter.
   (G)   No discharger is allowed to increase the use of potable or process
water in any way nor mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a
discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with applicable standards.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.056 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   If they are more stringent than state or local standards, then
national categorical pretreatment standards as promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency must be met by all discharges of the regulated
industrial categories. It is important to understand that federal standards are
required to be met at the point of discharge from the industrial pretreatment
system prior to mixing with any other waste stream.
      (2)   An application submitted by the POTW for the modification of
categorical standards may be considered by the Regional Administrator if the
Authority’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent removal of
regulated pollutants as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.7.
   (B)   (1)   All industries are required to monitor Total Toxic Organics
(TTO) on a semiannual basis, at minimum done during sampling done by the POTW.
Industries are required to monitor their effluent for potentially toxic
substances used in their manufacturing process on a case-by-case basis.
      (2)   Should an industrial discharge show a chronic violation of these
limits, the industry shall have 60 days to submit a written comprehensive plan
to the city outlining how they will reduce or eliminate the offending
substance. In addition, if such violations cause the city to incur additional
expenses for treatment or testing, then the industry will be responsible for
said expenses.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 1-5-2005; Ord. 2007-03, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.057 PRETREATMENT POLICIES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If any sewage is discharged or proposed to be discharged into the
system which contains the substances or possesses the characteristics
enumerated in §
52.055 of this chapter and which the Agency deems may have a deleterious effect
upon the treatment and collection system, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise creates a hazard to life or constitutes a nuisance,
then the Agency may in writing:
      (1)   Reject the waste;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition prior to discharge;
      (3)   Require flow equalization of the rate of discharge; or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the waste not covered by existing sewer charges.
   (B)   Pretreatment standards prescribed pursuant to the Act shall apply in
any instance where they are more stringent than those in this section.
   (C)   Where the agency determines that pretreatment is required, facilities
shall be constructed, operated and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted for review to the Agency, IDEM’s Construction Permit Section and all
other agencies as required by law. These plans shall be approved before
construction of said facilities. The review of such plans will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent acceptable to the Agency under the provisions of this
chapter. Any subsequent changes in pretreatment facilities or procedures which
may change the quality or quantity of pretreated wastewater shall be reported
to and be acceptable to the Agency and to all agencies of the state which have
jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Agency reserves the right to refuse to accept any or all
industrial wastewaters from an industry or combination of industries as may be
necessary to ensure adequate treatment and proper operation of the collection
system, notwithstanding the limitations set forth in §
52.055(D) of this chapter. The Agency may accept any or all industrial
wastewaters from an industry or combination of industries provided the Agency
determines that constituents in the wastewaters are compatible with the
Agency’s collection system and treatment processes.
(Ord. 972, passed 2-14-1978; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.058 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Accidental discharge. Users shall notify the Agency immediately upon
accidentally discharging wastes in violation of this chapter. Within five days
of the date of occurrence, this notification shall be followed by a detailed
written statement describing the causes of the accident and the measures being
taken to prevent reoccurrences. Such notification will not relieve a user of
liability for any expense, loss or damage to the sewer system, treatment plant
or treatment process, or for any fines imposed by the Agency in accordance with
this chapter.
   (B)   Notification of employees by user.
      (1)   Users shall make available to those employees responsible for the
user’s discharge a copy of this chapter together with such other wastewater
information and notices which may be furnished by the Agency from time to time.
      (2)   A notice shall be furnished and permanently posted on the user’s
bulletin board and in the immediate vicinity of the location of equipment where
discharges are possible advising employees of whom to call in case of an
accidental discharge in violation of this chapter. Employees may be directed to
contact a designated Agency official.
   (C)   Suspension of service. The Agency may immediately suspend the
treatment service of a discharger if it appears to the Agency that an actual or
threatened discharge presents an immediate danger to the welfare of persons,
the environment or the operations of the POTW or violates any pretreatment
limits or any discharge permits.
(Ord. 972, passed 2-14-1978; Ord. 1084, passed 2-4-1985; Ord. 2020-02, passed
6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
52.999
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS AND FEES
§ 52.070 REPORTING.
   (A)   The Agency may require any person discharging or proposing to
discharge into a community sewer to file a periodic discharge report. This
report may include, but is not limited to, the nature of processes, volume and
rates of flow, mass emission rate, hours of operation, number of employees or
other information related to the generation of waste, including wastewater
constituents and characteristics in the wastewater discharge.
   (B)   Such reports may also include the chemical constituents of all
materials stored on site even though they may not normally be discharged.
   (C)   In addition to discharge reports, the Agency may require information
in the form of wastewater discharge permit applications and self-monitoring
reports.
   (D)   Each major contributing industry subject to pretreatment standards or
any other applicable requirements promulgated pursuant to § 307 of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), shall submit to the Agency semiannual notice
regarding specific actions taken to achieve full compliance.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 1-5-2005; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.071 PERMIT TYPES.
   The following permits are available.
   (A)   Mandatory permits. All critical users proposing to connect to or
discharge into a community sewer must obtain a wastewater discharge permit
before connecting or discharging.
   (B)   Optional permits. Upon application, the Agency may issue a wastewater
discharge permit to any user in accordance with the terms of this subchapter in
the following categories:
      (1)   A user who requires the user charges and fees to be based on an
estimation of wastewater flow; or
      (2)   A user whose wastewater strength is less than the normal range for
the user classification to which he or she is assigned because of pretreatment,
process changes or other reasons.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 1-5-2005; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.072 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Industrial dischargers must complete and file with the Agency a permit
application in the form prescribed by the Agency and accompanied by the
appropriate fee. New dischargers must apply at least 90 days prior to
connecting to the POTW.
   (B)   No discharge permit will be issued until the following conditions have
been met:
      (1)   Disclosure of the name, address and location of the discharger;
      (2)   Disclosure of the standard industrial classification (SIC) number
according to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Bureau of the
Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Disclosure of the wastewater constituents and characteristics,
including, but not limited to, those mentioned in this chapter as determined by
bona fide chemical and biological analyses. Sampling and analyses shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the U.S. EPA and
contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Disclosure of the time and duration of discharges;
      (5)   Disclosure of the average daily wastewater flow rates in gallons
per day, including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any. All flows
must be measured unless other verifiable techniques are approved by the Agency
due to cost or unfeasibility;
      (6)   Disclosure of the site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing
plans and details to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection manholes,
sampling chambers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation;
      (7)   Descriptions of the activities, facilities and plant processes on
the premises, including all materials which are or may be discharged to the
sewers or works of the Agency;
      (8)   Disclosure of the nature and concentration of any pollutants or
materials prohibited by this chapter in the discharge, including a statement
regarding whether or not compliance is being achieved on a consistent basis,
and if not, what additional operation and maintenance activities or additional
pretreatment is required for the discharger to comply;
      (9)   Where additional pretreatment or operation and maintenance
activities will be required to comply with the applicable pretreatment
standard, the discharger must provide a compliance schedule by which he or she
will provide the additional pretreatment or the implementation of additional
operational and maintenance activities.
         (a)   The schedule must contain milestone dates for the commencement
and completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of
additional pretreatment required for the discharger to comply with the
requirements of this chapter, including, but not limited to, dates related to
hiring an engineer, hiring other appropriate personnel, completing preliminary
plans, completing final plans, executing contracts for major components,
commencing construction, completing construction and all other acts necessary
to achieve compliance.
         (b)   Under no circumstances will the Agency permit a time increment
for any single step directed toward compliance which exceeds nine months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each milestone date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the discharger must submit a
progress report to the Agency. This report must include a statement as to
whether or not he or she complied with the increment of progress represented by
the milestone date, and if not, the date on which he or she expects to comply
with the increment of progress, the reason for delay and the steps being taken
to return the construction to the approved schedule. In no event shall more
than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the Agency.
      (10)   Disclosure of each product produced by type, amount of process or
processes and rate of production;
      (11)   Industrial users shall notify the POTW of any planned changes in
the constituents or volume of industrial discharges to the POTW. Failure to
notify the POTW at least ten days prior to a planned change shall result in a
penalty;
      (12)   Disclosure of the type and amount of raw materials utilized;
      (13)   All permit applications for new or modified permits must be signed
by a principal executive of the discharger; and
      (14)   All sewers must have an inspection and sampling manhole or
structure with an opening of not less than 24 inches in diameter and an
internal diameter of not less than 36 inches to contain flow measuring,
recording and sampling equipment as required by the Agency to assure
compliance.
   (C)   The Agency will evaluate the application and may require additional
information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data, the Agency may issue
a wastewater discharge permit subject to the terms and conditions provided
herein.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 1-5-2005; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.073 INDUSTRIAL USER FEES.
   (A)   The Agency is hereby authorized to establish reasonable fees to be
paid by an industrial user. Prior to changing any such fee, the Superintendent
of the wastewater treatment plant shall present such proposed changes to the
Board of Public Works and Safety for approval or rejection by resolution. All
such applicable fees shall be posted and available for examination by the
public at the sewage treatment plant and in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   The following fees shall apply and may be revised by the Agency, as
required, to recover industrial surveillance costs:
      (1)   Inspection fees.
         (a)   Establishments with fewer than 25 employees: $50;
         (b)   Establishments with 26 to 100 employees: $200; and
         (c)   Establishments with more than 100 employees: $400.
      (2)   Monitoring events. If the Agency does the field work associated
with sample collection, then the fee is $400 per monitoring event.
      (3)   Analytical costs.
         (a)   Analytical costs shall be billed to an industrial user according
to a schedule of analytical fees, to be maintained by the Superintendent of the
wastewater treatment plant. Prior to changing any such fee, the Superintendent
of the wastewater treatment plant shall present such proposed changes to the
Board of Public Works and Safety for approval or rejection by resolution. All
such applicable fees shall be posted and available for examination by the
public at the sewage treatment plant and in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
         (b)   As of the adoption of this chapter, such fees are established as
follows.
 
Substance                             Fee
CBOD5                                 $27
NH3-N                                 $27
Oil and grease, metals, miscellaneous Cost recovery plus a $15 transport fee
pH                                    $10
Total phosphorus                      $27
TSS                                   $23
 
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 1-5-2005; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.074 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions of this
chapter and to all other regulations, user charges and fees established by the
Agency. The conditions of the permits shall be uniformly enforced by the Agency
in accordance with this chapter and with applicable state and federal
regulations.
   (B)   Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community system;
      (2)   The average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on rate and time of discharge or requirements for flow
regulation and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for the installation of inspection and sampling
facilities;
      (5)   Pretreatment requirements;
      (6)   Specifications for monitoring programs, which may include sampling
locations, frequency and method of sampling and number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for the submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining plant records related to discharge as
specified by the Agency, and affording the Agency access thereto;
      (9)   Mean and maximum mass emission rates, or other appropriate limits
when incompatible pollutants are proposed or are present in the discharge;
      (10)   Compliance schedules; and
      (11)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Agency.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 1-5-2005; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.075 PERMIT DURATIONS.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified period not to exceed five years. A
permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to expire
on a specific date.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 1-5-2005; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.076 PERMIT EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   If the user is not notified by the Agency 30 days prior to the
expiration of the permit, then the permit shall be extended one additional
year.
   (B)   The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to notification
and change by the Agency during the life of the permit as limitations or
requirements specified in §
52.055(D) of this chapter are modified and changed. The user shall be informed
of any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of the change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 1-5-2005; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE MONITORING AND REPORTING
§ 52.090 WASTEWATER VOLUME DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Metered water supply. User charges and fees shall be based upon the
total amount of water used from all sources unless, in the determination of the
Agency, a significant portion of the water received is not discharged to a
community sewer. The total amount of water used from public and private sources
will be determined by means of public meters or private meters installed and
maintained at the expense of the user and approved by the Agency.
   (B)   Metered wastewater volume and metered diversions. Where, in the
determination of the Agency, a significant portion of the water received from
any metered source does not flow into a community sewer because of the
principal activity of the user or removal by other means, or where the user
obtains water from sources other than the municipal water utility operated by
the Agency, the user charges and fees will be applied against the volume of
water discharged from such premises into the community sewer. Written
notification and proof of the diversion of water must be provided by the user.
The user shall, when so directed by the Agency, install a meter of a type and
at a location approved by the Agency and at the user’s charge. When deemed
necessary by the Agency, such meters shall be tested for accuracy at the
expense of the user.
   (C)   Estimated volume of users without meters. Where, in the opinion of the
Agency, it is unnecessary or impractical to install meters, the quantity of
wastewater may be based upon an estimate prepared by the user, provided that
the user obtains a discharge permit and pays the applicable user charges and
fees. This estimate shall be based upon a rational determination of the
wastewater discharged and may consider factors such as the number of fixtures,
seating capacity, population equivalent, annual production of goods and
services or such other determinants of water use necessary to estimate the
volume discharged.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.091 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Agency may require the user to construct, at his or her own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow for inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer or internal drainage systems, and may also
require sampling or metering equipment to be provided, installed and operated
at the user’s expense.
   (B)   The monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s
premises, but the Agency may, when such a location would be impractical or
cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the
public street or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by
landscaping or parked vehicles. If the monitoring facility is inside the user’s
fence, then access for Agency personnel shall be provided. There shall be ample
room in or near such sampling manholes to allow for accurate sampling and
compositing of sampling.
(Ord. 972, passed 2-14-78; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 52.092 OIL AND GREASE TESTING.
   Industries are required to test, at the industry’s expense, for oil and
grease (O & G) on a semiannual basis, minimum, with a set limit of 25
milligrams per liter.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 1-5-2005; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.093 REQUIRED REPORT TYPES.
   (A)   Compliance schedule reports, non- categorical industries.
      (1)   Any non-categorical industry which is not in compliance with the
limitations of this chapter must develop a compliance schedule, during which
time the industry must meet the city’s standards. The schedule should contain
increments of progress, such as hiring engineers, starting construction or the
like, which correspond to specific dates for their completion. These represent
major events leading to the operation of pretreatment equipment to meet the
city’s pretreatment standards.
      (2)   All users subject to these conditions must submit a progress report
to the city not later than 14 days following each date in the compliance
schedule. This report must include whether the industry complied with the
increment of progress to be met on that date, the reason for delay if the date
was not met and the steps being taken to return to compliance. In no event can
more than nine months elapse between progress reports.
   (B)   Reports. This requirement calls for the submission of all notices and
self-monitoring reports from industrial users which are necessary to assess and
assure compliance by users with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. These reports will normally be required on a monthly basis.
   (C)   Baseline Report (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)).
      (1)   Within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard or 180 days after the final administrative decision made
on a category, whichever is later, existing industrial users subject to such
categorical pretreatment standard and currently discharging to or scheduled to
discharge to a POTW will be required to submit to the Agency a report
containing the information listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)(1) through 403.12(b)
(7).
      (2)   Upon promulgation of a categorical pretreatment standard, the
Control Authority, being the U.S. EPA, state or POTW, will provide the
appropriate 12(b) form for distribution to the users who are affected by the
promulgated standard. The users are then required to submit the completed
report to the Agency.
   (D)   Compliance schedule reports, categorical industries (40 C.F.R. §
403.12(c)).
      (1)   These reporting conditions apply to the compliance schedule
required in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)(7). This schedule is necessary whenever a
user is not meeting categorical pretreatment standards at the time of
promulgation of that standard. The schedule contains increments of progress,
such as hiring an engineer, completing plans, commencing construction,
completing construction and the like, which correspond to specific dates for
their completion. These represent major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard.
      (2)   All industrial users subject to these conditions must submit a
progress report to the Agency not later than 14 days following each date on the
compliance schedule, including the final date for compliance. This report must
include, at a minimum, whether or not the user complied with the increment of
progress to be met on that date, and if not, the date on which it expects to
comply, the reason for delay and the steps being taken by the industrial user
to return the construction to the schedule established. In no event can more
than nine months elapse between such progress reports.
   (E)   Compliance date report (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(d)).
      (1)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with an
applicable pretreatment standard, any industrial user subject to those
standards must submit to the Agency a report indicating the nature and
concentration of all pollutants in the discharge generated from the regulated
process which are limited by categorical pretreatment standards.
      (2)   The report must also state whether applicable standards are being
met on a consistent basis, and if not, what additional O & M or pretreatment is
necessary to bring the discharge into compliance. This statement should be
signed by an authorized representative of the industrial user.
   (F)   Periodic reports on continued compliance (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)).
      (1)   Any discharger subject to an applicable pretreatment standard must
submit to the Agency during the months of June and December, or more frequently
if required by the Agency, a report indicating the nature and concentration of
prohibited or regulated substances in the discharge which are limited by the
categorical pretreatment standards following the final compliance date of that
pretreatment standard. In addition, this report must include a record of all
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows during the reporting
period. Flows are to be reported on the basis of actual measurement, except the
Agency may accept reports of average and maximum flows estimated by verifiable
techniques where cost or feasibility considerations justify.
      (2)   The Agency, considering such factors as local high or low flow
rates, holidays, budget cycles or other extenuating factors, may authorize
submission of the reports on months other than those specified above.
(Ord. 1084, passed 2-4-1985; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
52.999
PRIVIES, VAULTS, CESSPOOLS AND SEPTIC TANKS
§ 52.105 WASTE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or lessee of any lot, parcel or real
estate within the city to place, deposit or permit to be deposited any human
excrement, garbage or any other organic waste upon the premises in a way that
or place where the same is exposed to flies, rodents or small domestic animals,
or which will endanger a water supply.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.010) (Ord. 549, passed 7-1-1957) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.106 CONSTRUCTION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Wherever a public sanitary or combined sewer is located in any
street or alley adjacent to or within 100 feet of any lot or parcel of land, it
shall be unlawful to construct and maintain any privy, privy vault, cesspool or
septic tank intended for or subject to receiving human excrement.
      (2)   Where a sanitary or combined sewer is located in any street or
alley adjacent to or within 100 feet of any lot or parcel of land on which is
located any privy, privy vault, cesspool or septic tank intended for or subject
to receiving human excrement, the privy shall be removed and the privy vault,
cesspool or septic tank shall be filled with earth.
   (B)   This is provided, however, that where sewage treatment is not
available, a septic tank shall be constructed, maintained and connected to the
sanitary or combined sewer.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.020) (Ord. 549, passed 7-1-1957) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.107 REQUIRED WATER-FLUSH SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a sanitary or combined sewer is not located in any street or
alley adjacent to or within 100 feet of any lot or parcel of real estate on
which is located an inhabited dwelling, business house, boarding house, eating
place, tenement, shop, factory, public hall, place of amusement or any other
building in the city, a water-flush toilet or a sanitary privy of the type of
construction approved by the State Board of Health shall be provided by the
owner or agent of the premises.
   (B)   Where a water-flush system of excreta disposal which is not connected
to the public sewer system is installed or is in use, there shall be installed
a private sewage disposal system consisting of a septic tank and a system of
underground drainage for the disposal of the septic tank effluent.
   (C)   The sanitary privy, water-flush toilet and private disposal plant
shall be constructed and maintained in an approved manner as described and
illustrated in Bulletin No. 8 and Bulletin No. 11 of the Bureau of Sanitary
Engineering of the State Board of Health, copies of which are herewith
incorporated as a part of this section as if fully set out within, and to the
approval of the Board of Health of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.030) (Ord. 549, passed 7-1-1957) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.108 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL OPERATIONS.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.040) (Ord. 549, passed 7-1-1957) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.109 WRITTEN NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever it is found that any person, firm or corporation is violating any
of the provisions or requirements set out in this subchapter, a written notice
stating the offense and setting a time limit for the correction thereof shall
be served upon the offended by the Health Officer or any police officer of the
city. The offender shall forever cease all violations within the time limit
stated in the notice served upon him or her.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.050) (Ord. 549, passed 7-1-1957) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Penalty process.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Whenever the Agency finds that any discharger
has engaged in conduct which justifies revocation of a wastewater permit or
suspension of service, the Agency will serve the discharger with a written
notice, either personally or by certified or registered mail, stating the
nature of the alleged violation. Within ten days of the date of receipt of the
notice, the discharger must respond personally or in writing to the Agency
advising of his or her position with respect to the allegations. Thereafter,
the parties must meet to determine the seriousness of the allegations, and
where necessary, establish a plan for the satisfactory correction of the
violation.
      (2)   Penalties for violations. Any person who violates any provision of
this chapter, except as addressed in divisions (C), (D) and (E) below, commits
an infraction, and upon finding and notice thereof, shall be penalized in an
amount of not less than $100. Each day on which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate violation.
      (3)   Damages. Any person in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, except as addressed in divisions (C), (D) and (E) below, shall become
liable to the Agency for any expense, loss or damage caused by such violation.
      (4)   Falsifying information. Any person who knowingly makes any false
statement or representation, record, plan or other document filed with the
Agency, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter, except as addressed in
divisions (C), (D) and (E) below, shall be penalized in an amount not more than
$l,000 upon finding and notice thereof.
      (5)   Injunction. Whenever a discharger is in violation of the provisions
of this chapter, except as addressed in divisions (C), (D) and (E) below, or
otherwise causes or threatens to cause a condition of contamination, pollution
or nuisance, the Agency may petition any court of competent jurisdiction to
restrain the continuance of such discharge.
      (6)   Civil penalties. Any discharger who is found to have violated an
order of the Agency or who has failed to comply with any provisions of this
chapter, except as addressed in divisions (C), (D) and (E) below, applicable
federal or state regulations, rules of the Agency or orders of any court of
competent jurisdiction may be subjected to the imposition of a civil penalty.
The mechanism whereby a civil penalty may be levied is governed by local or
state statute.
   (C)   Roof drains. Any person violating any provision of §
52.005 of this chapter may be fined in any amount not exceeding $300.
(Prior Code, § 15.08.020)
   (D)   Industrial user discharge changes. As per §
52.072 of this chapter, the failure to notify the POTW at least ten days prior
to a planned change in discharge constituents or volume shall result in a
penalty of $100. Each day or part of a day that any such change is made without
the approval of the POTW shall constitute a separate offense and penalty.
   (E)   Privies, vaults, cesspools and septic tanks. Any person, firm or
corporation which shall continue to violate any of the provisions of §§
52.105 through
52.109 of this chapter beyond the time limit provided for in the written notice
of the violation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
therefor, be fined in any sum not exceeding $20 for each violation. Each day on
which any violation may continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.050)
(Ord. 549, passed 7-1-1957; Ord. 2004-16, passed 1-5-2005; Ord. 2020-02, passed
6-1-2020)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RAILROADS
      
72.   GOLF CARTS
      
73.   MOTORIZED BICYCLES
      
74.   BICYCLES AND MOPEDS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Traffic Code
§ 70.01 TITLE.
   The provisions codified in this Ch. 70 may be known and cited as the
“Traffic Code.”
(Prior Code, § 10.04.010)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in the Traffic Code shall have the same meanings
and definitions as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.020)
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   The terms and conditions established in the Traffic Code (bound copy:
Ord. 1012) and the subsequent amendments thereto are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
   (B)   Two copies of the references are on file in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.030) (Ord. 1048, passed - -; Ord. 1052, passed - -; Ord.
1053, passed - -; Ord. 1054, passed - -; Ord. 1078, passed - -; Ord. 1083,
passed - -; Ord. 1084, passed - -; Ord. 1086, passed - -; Ord. 1101, passed -
-; Ord. 1102, passed - -; Ord. 1103, passed - -; Ord. 1173, passed - -; Ord.
1176, passed - -; Ord. 1177, passed - -; Ord. 1183, passed - -; Ord. 1223,
passed - -; Ord. 1242, passed - -; Ord. 1299, passed - -; Ord. 1323, passed -
-; Ord. 962, passed 6-15-1977; Ord. 963, passed 6-15-1977; Ord. 970, passed 8-
15-1977; Ord. 971, passed 12-12-1977; Ord. 987, passed 2-12-1979; Ord. 989,
passed 3-5-1979; Ord. 986, passed 5-14-1979; Ord. 995, passed 10- -1979; Ord.
1012, passed 7-6-1981; Ord. 1013, passed 8-31-1981; Ord. 1021, passed 11-1-
1982; Ord. 1023, passed 12-6-1982; Ord. 1030, passed 7-5-1983; Ord. 1032,
passed 2-4-1985; Ord. 2004-04, passed 5-3-2004; Ord. 2004-08, passed 7-6-2004;
Ord. 2005-04, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2005-12, passed 10-3-2005; Ord. 2005-17,
passed 12-5-2005; Ord. 2006-06, passed 7-3-2006; Ord. 2006-12, passed 10-2-
2006; Ord. 2006-14, passed 12-4-2006; Ord. 2006-18, passed 1-2-2007; Ord. 2007-
01, passed 2-5-2007; Ord. 2007-02, passed 4-2-2007; Ord. 2007-05, passed 5-7-
2007; Ord. 2007-10, passed 7-2-2007; Ord. 2008-04, passed 5-5-2008; Ord. 2008-
09, passed 11-3-2008; Ord. 2008-11, passed 12-1-2008; Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-2-
2009; Ord. 2009-02, passed 2-2-2009; Ord. 2009-09, passed 2-2-2009; Ord. 2009-
12, passed 8-3-2009; Ord. 2009-16, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 2009-17, passed 9-8-
2009; Ord. 2009-21, passed 11-2-2009; Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-4-2010; Ord. 2010-
03, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 2010-06, passed 5-3-2010; Ord. 2010-07, passed 7-6-
2010; Ord. 2010-13, passed 10-4-2010; Ord. 2011-04, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 2011-
09, passed 10-3-2011; Ord. 2011-11, passed 10-3-2011; Ord. 2012-08, passed 4-2-
2012; Ord. 2012-09, passed 4-2-2012; Ord. 2012-11, passed 7-2-2012; Ord. 2012-
16, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-4-2013; Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-4-
2013; Ord. 2013-18, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2014-06, passed 6-2-2014; Ord. 2014-
14, passed 11-3-2014; Ord. 2015-04, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2016-01, passed 1-4-
2016; Ord. 2016-08, passed 9-6-2016; Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-2-2018; Ord. 2018-
04, passed 5-7-2018; Ord. 2018-08, passed 8-6-2018; Ord. 2020-14, passed 1-4-
2021)
CHAPTER 71: RAILROADS
Section
   
71.01   Speed regulations
   
71.02   Sounding of whistles and alarms
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   The maximum speed for rail traffic on the railroad lines within the
corporate limits of the city shall be 30 mph.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.010) (Ord. 1015, passed 2-1-1982) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 SOUNDING OF WHISTLES AND ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for locomotives to sound a whistle or alarm in the
corporate limits of the city unless necessary for the transaction of railroad
company business or for the protection of life and property.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.020) (Ord. 30, passed 4-8-1895) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Speed. Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions of
§
71.01 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined for each
violation any sum not exceeding $500 and the costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.040) (Ord. 1015, passed 2-1-1982)
CHAPTER 72: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Operating golf carts in city
   
72.03   Operators
   
72.04   Occupants
   
72.05   Inspection and permitting
   
72.06   Financial responsibility
   
72.07   Place of operation
   
72.08   Traffic rules
   
72.09   Lights and equipment
   
72.10   Slow-moving vehicle sign
   
72.11   Exclusions
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license to operation a motor vehicle which is
issued by the state or by any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than is required by applicable state law for motor vehicles
operated on public highways within the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle with four wheels originally designed for operation on a
golf course which is powered by a battery or an internal combustion motor.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 72.02 OPERATING GOLF CARTS IN CITY.
   The operation of a golf cart within the city is strictly prohibited unless
said golf cart is operated and equipped in full compliance with all of the
terms and conditions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-6-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OPERATORS.
   Only persons over 16 years of age who hold a valid driver’s license may
operate a golf cart upon the streets, roadways, intersections and alleys
located within the city.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-6-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number
of persons for whom factory seating is installed and shall in no event exceed
four persons.
   (B)   The operator of a golf cart and all occupants of said golf cart shall
be seated in said golf cart, and no part of the body of the operator or any
occupant shall extend outside of the perimeter of said golf cart while the golf
cart is being operated.
   (C)   No person under the age of ten years shall be permitted to ride on the
rear seat of a golf cart.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-6-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 INSPECTION AND PERMITTING.
   (A)   The purpose of the annual inspection shall be to determine whether a
golf cart is safe and in compliance with the terms and provisions of this
chapter and with any other applicable laws of the state. Said inspection shall
include a review of the financial responsibility associated with the golf cart.
   (B)   A golf cart must be inspected on an annual basis by the City Police
Department. The inspection cost shall be $25 per golf cart per inspection.
   (C)   Upon completion of an adequate inspection, the golf cart shall be
registered by the City Police Department and shall be issued a permit for
operation during the remaining months of the year immediately succeeding said
registration. Said permit shall be posted in plain view on the rear of the golf
cart at all times.
   (D)   (1)   The owner of the golf cart must renew said golf cart inspection
on a yearly basis prior to operating said golf cart on certain city streets,
roadways, intersections and alleys located within the city.
      (2)   The City Police Department shall maintain a record of inspection.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-6-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The operator of a golf cart must be able to show financial
responsibility when operating a golf cart.
   (B)   Written proof of financial responsibility must be available either by
placing the same on the golf cart or via the operator of said golf cart
carrying the same at all times.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-6-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   (A)   A golf cart may be operated on city streets, roadways and alleys which
have a posted speed limit of 30 mph or less and at and through the
intersections of such streets, roadways and alleys.
   (B)   A golf cart may not be operated on sidewalks or along national or
state highways located within the city under any circumstances, provided,
however, that a golf cart may be operated through intersections with national
or state highways located within the city. Said national and state highways
include, without limitation:
      (1)   State Road 26 (Water Street, Washington Street);
      (2)   State Road 22 (Water Street, Washington Street, Franklin Street);
and
      (3)   State Road 3 (Walnut Street).
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-6-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 TRAFFIC RULES.
   The operator of a golf cart shall comply with all traffic and parking rules
and regulations adopted by the city or state which govern the operation and
parking of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-6-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 LIGHTS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every golf cart shall be equipped with the following, which shall be
visible from a distance of 500 feet:
      (1)   Two operating headlights, one of which is located on each side of
the front of the golf cart;
      (2)   Two operating tail lights with brake lights, one of which is
located on each side of the rear of the golf cart; and
      (3)   Turn signals, one of which is located on each side of the front and
rear of the golf cart.
   (B)   Every golf cart shall also be equipped with a rearview mirror.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-6-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE SIGN.
   A golf cart must display a “slow-moving vehicle” sign on the rear of said
golf cart. Said sign shall be of the same type as required under applicable
state law.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-6-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this chapter,
the terms and provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any golf cart
operated on the following streets and roadways located within the city and
immediately adjacent to the Blackford Golf Club:
      (1)   Lakeview Drive in its entirety;
      (2)   Creekside Court in its entirety;
      (3)   Woodland Trail in its entirety;
      (4)   Clubview Drive in its entirety; and
      (5)   Inverness Court in its entirety.
   (B)   Furthermore, the city shall install and maintain a sign at the
entrance of the Creekside residential community at the intersection of 100 West
and Lakeview Drive, and said sign shall include the following language:
“Creekside is a Golf Course Community. Beware of Golf Carts.”
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a violation of
this code. Upon a finding of such a violation, an owner, lessee or operator
shall be fined a sum of $50.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-6-2013)
CHAPTER 73: MOTORIZED BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Operating motorized bicycles in city
   
73.03   Operators
   
73.04   Occupants
   
73.05   Inspection and permitting
   
73.06   Financial responsibility
   
73.07   No operation on sidewalks
   
73.08   Traffic and parking rules
   
73.09   Time of operation and lights
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a motorized
bicycle in an amount not less than is required by applicable state law for
motor vehicles operated on public highways within the state.
   LICENSE. In accordance with I.C. 9-21-11-12, an identification card under
I.C. 9-24, a permit under I.C. 9-24, an operator’s license under I.C. 9-24, a
chauffeur’s license under I.C. 9-24 or a public passenger chauffeur’s license
under I.C. 9-24.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
      (1)   In accordance with the terms of I.C. 9-21-11 et seq., a two- or
three-wheeled vehicle which is propelled by an internal combustion engine or a
battery-powered motor having:
         (a)   A cylinder capacity less than 50 cubic centimeters; and
         (b)   An automatic transmission.
      (2)   If a vehicle has a cylinder capacity greater than or equal to 50
cubic centimeters or does not have an automatic transmission, then said vehicle
shall be considered a motor scooter or a motorcycle and shall explicitly not be
considered a MOTORIZED BICYCLE, and said vehicle shall be subject to all laws
of the state governing the operation and registration of motor vehicles, motor
scooters and motorcycles.
      (3)   The term MOTORIZED BICYCLE shall also explicitly exclude an
electric personal assistive mobility device.
      (4)   In the event of any conflict between the definition set forth in
this section and the definition of MOTORIZED BICYCLE set forth in the State
Code, the definition of MOTORIZED BICYCLE set forth in the State Code shall
govern.
(Ord. 2009-20, passed 2-1-2010)
§ 73.02 OPERATING MOTORIZED BICYCLES IN CITY.
   The operation of a motorized bicycle within the city is strictly prohibited
unless said motorized bicycle is operated and equipped in full compliance with
all of the terms and conditions set forth in this chapter and with the
applicable terms and provisions of the State Code including, without
limitation, I.C. 9-21-11, which is entitled “Bicycles and Motorized Bicycles.”
(Ord. 2009-20, passed 2-1-2010) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 OPERATORS.
   (A)   As set forth in I.C. 9-21-11-12, only persons at least 15 years of age
who hold a valid license may operate a motorized bicycle upon the streets,
roadways, intersections and alleys located within the city.
   (B)   In accordance with state law, any person less than 18 years of age who
operates or rides a motorized bicycle on a street or highway shall do all of
the following:
      (1)   Wear protective headgear meeting the minimum standards set forth by
applicable laws of the state or a helmet meeting the standards established by
the United States Department of Transportation under 49 C.F.R. § 571.218, in
effect January 1, 1979; and
      (2)   Wear protective glasses, goggles or a transparent face shield.
(Ord. 2009-20, passed 2-1-2010) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants on a motorized bicycle shall be limited to the
number of persons for whom factory seating is installed, and shall in no event
exceed two persons.
(Ord. 2009-20, passed 2-1-2010) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 INSPECTION AND PERMITTING.
   (A)   The purpose of the annual inspection shall be to determine whether a
motorized bicycle is safe and in compliance with the terms and provisions of
this chapter and with any other applicable laws of the state. Said inspection
shall include a review of the financial responsibility associated with the
motorized bicycle.
   (B)   A motorized bicycle must be inspected on an annual basis by the Police
Department of the city. The inspection cost shall be $10 per motorized bicycle
per inspection.
   (C)   Upon completion of an adequate inspection, a motorized bicycle shall
be registered by the Police Department of the city and shall be issued a permit
for operation each year beginning January 1. Said permit shall be posted in
plain view on the body of the motorized bicycle at all times.
   (D)   The owner of a motorized bicycle must renew said motorized bicycle’s
inspection annually. The Police Department of the city shall maintain a record
of inspections.
(Ord. 2009-20, passed 2-1-2010) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The operator of a motorized bicycle must be able to show financial
responsibility when operating a motorized bicycle.
   (B)   Written proof of financial responsibility must be available either by
placing the same on the motorized bicycle or via the operator of said motorized
bicycle carrying the same at all times.
(Ord. 2009-20, passed 2-1-2010) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 NO OPERATION ON SIDEWALKS.
   A motorized bicycle may not, in any circumstances, be operated on city
sidewalks.
(Ord. 2009-20, passed 2-1-2010) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES.
   The operator of a motorized bicycle shall comply with all traffic and
parking rules and regulations adopted by the city or state which govern the
operation and parking of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2009-20, passed 2-1-2010) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 TIME OF OPERATION AND LIGHTS.
   A motorized bicycle may not be operated on the streets, roadways,
intersections or alleys located within the city during the period commencing
with that time which is 30 minutes after sunset and ending at that time which
is 30 minutes before sunrise unless said motorized bicycle is equipped with the
following, as well as with any other requirements which may hereafter be set
forth in I.C. 9-21-11-9, entitled “Lamps and Reflectors,” or in any provision
amending, revising or substituting for said section:
   (A)   A lamp on the front of the motorized bicycle exhibiting a white light
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front; and
   (B)   A lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the rear or a red reflector visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear.
(Ord. 2009-20, passed 2-1-2010) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
violation of this code. Upon a finding of such a violation, an owner, lessee or
operator of a motorized bicycle shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $200.
Each and every independent violation shall constitute a new and separate
offense.
   (B)   If two or more violations occur in one calendar year in connection
with one motorized bicycle, then said motorized bicycle’s permit shall be
suspended for a period of one calendar year, to begin with the date of the
occurrence of the last violation. Said suspension shall not affect the annual
inspection requirements set forth in §
73.05 of this chapter.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing, a motorized bicycle which is in
violation of any provision of this chapter or which is operated by a person
found to be in violation of this chapter may be towed at the discretion of the
Police Department of the city. Said motorized bicycle shall not be returned to
its owner until all penalties have been paid and, if applicable, said owner has
provided proof that the circumstances giving rise to the violation of this
chapter have been corrected.
   (D)   The civil fine set forth in this section shall be paid through the
city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau established pursuant to Ch. 32 of this code,
a copy of which is located at the office of the City Clerk- Treasurer. The
procedures associated with the prosecution of violations of this chapter shall
be consistent with those procedures described in §§
32.05 and
32.06 of this code.
(Ord. 2009-20, passed 2-1-2010)
CHAPTER 74: BICYCLES AND MOPEDS
Section
   
74.01   Registration and licensing
   
74.02   Inspection
   
74.03   Restrictions for riding on sidewalks
   
74.04   Bicycle and moped parking
   
74.05   Children and wards as riders
   
74.06   Non-reverting fund
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 REGISTRATION AND LICENSING.
   (A)   Within the corporate limits of the city, no resident of the city shall
ride or operate a bicycle or moped upon a highway or public way, or upon a
public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles and mopeds, unless the
bicycle or moped has been properly registered and licensed.
   (B)   Every owner of a bicycle or moped within the city shall file with the
Police Chief a complete description of the bicycle or moped and shall show
evidence of ownership. Subsequently, any resident who acquires ownership of a
bicycle or moped shall file for registration within a period of five days from
the day of acquisition of the bicycle or moped.
   (C)   The Police Chief shall have the authority to issue bicycle and moped
licenses at the time of registration, which shall be effective for a period of
two years or until there is a change of ownership. This officer shall keep
record of all licenses issued, moped frame and shall keep the record of all
fees collected for which the license shall have been issued upon all highways
or public ways or upon all public paths set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles and mopeds within the city.
   (D)   Upon the registration of a bicycle or moped, the Police Chief shall
issue a license sticker following payment of a $2 fee. The fee shall become the
property of the city at the time of issuance of the license sticker. At the
time of registration, the Police Chief shall also supply the owner with a
registration card showing the registration number and a printed sheet or
booklet containing the laws and ordinances applicable to the operation of a
bicycle or moped within the city, together with whatever information may, in
the judgment of the Police Chief, assist the operator in the safe operation of
a bicycle or moped.
   (E)   Upon the issuance of a license sticker, the Police Chief shall have
the license sticker affixed to the bicycle or moped, designating compliance and
causing the name of the owner and serial number of the bicycle or moped to be
recorded and filed. The Police Chief shall cause the sticker to be properly
attached to the upper portion of the seat tube in a position so as to be
plainly visible.
   (F)   All bicycles and mopeds must be properly registered and shall display
the issued license sticker. With a transfer of ownership of a bicycle or moped,
the transfer of registration to the new owner must be completed within five
days from the date of transfer.
   (G)   Upon the loss or destruction of any license required by this chapter,
and upon payment of a fee of $1, a new license shall be issued in the same
manner as upon an original application.
   (H)   Upon the sale or transfer of a licensed bicycle or moped, the licensee
thereof shall destroy the license sticker and surrender the registration card
to the Police Chief, and said licensee may have the Police Chief assign a new
license sticker to another bicycle or moped owned or operated by the licensee
upon payment of a fee of $1.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.010) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.02 INSPECTION.
   (A)   A bicycle or moped shall be presented for inspection at the time of
registration.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall have the authority to refuse to issue a license
sticker for a bicycle or moped if the same is found to be unsafe for operation.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.020)
§ 74.03 RESTRICTIONS FOR RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No bicycle shall be operated upon any sidewalk in the city unless
otherwise designated except for those operated by persons 12 years of age or
less. These persons, however, shall yield the right-of-way to any and all
pedestrians.
   (B)   No moped shall be operated upon any sidewalk in the city unless
otherwise designated.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.030) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 BICYCLE AND MOPED PARKING.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner is authorized and required to designate
bicycle and moped parking on those public streets and in those places as the
Common Council shall determine by ordinance to be of the greatest benefit,
safety and convenience to the motoring, bicycling and mopeding public.
   (B)   All bicycle and moped parking shall be designated by yellow lines and
symbols painted on the streets in those areas deemed appropriate by the Street
Commissioner, and the Street Commissioner shall also erect appropriate metal
signs designating the bicycle and moped parking.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.050)
§ 74.05 CHILDREN AND WARDS AS RIDERS.
   (A)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The regulations applicable to bicycles and mopeds shall apply whenever
a bicycle or moped is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles and mopeds, subject to those exceptions stated
herein.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.060) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 NON-REVERTING FUND.
   All monies obtained from bicycle and moped registration and licensing fees
shall be placed in the General Fund by the City Clerk-Treasurer, excluding the
following administrative costs: registration forms, license stickers and public
information and safety pamphlets.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.040)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter while being
under 16 years of age shall be referred to the County Probation Department. The
owner’s bicycle or moped shall be impounded.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter while being 16
years of age or older shall be referred to the appropriate court for violation
of a city ordinance, with a maximum fine not to exceed $10. The owner’s bicycle
or moped shall be impounded.
   (C)   Whenever a bicycle or moped is impounded and the requirements of this
chapter are met by registration, licensing or payment of any assessed fines,
and with reasonable proof of ownership, the bicycle or moped shall be returned
to the owner upon written request to the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.070) (Ord. passed 11-5-1984)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   PUBLIC MEETINGS, ASSEMBLIES AND CELEBRATIONS
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
90.04   Application
   
90.05   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.06   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.07   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
90.08   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.09   Exemptions
   
90.10   Administrative enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission, created pursuant to I.C.
22-9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act which is unlawful under §§
90.05 through
90.09 of this chapter or under I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING.
      (1)   Any building, structure or part of a building or structure which is
occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more
families; or
      (2)   Any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure which is occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such FAMILY being further defined in the definition of familial status.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment, or being regarded as
having such an impairment;
         (c)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; and
         (d)   Any other impairment defined under 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include a current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802, 910 I.A.C.
2-3-2(14), nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite, 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, trusts, labor organizations, receivers, legal representatives,
mutual companies, joint-stock companies, unincorporated organizations,
fiduciaries, trustees and trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 90.03 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 90.04 APPLICATION.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
90.03 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
90.05 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
90.05 shall apply to:
      (1)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by not more than four families living independently of
each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence; or
      (2)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time, provided that in the sale of such single- family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale,
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in nor have owned or reserved
on his or her behalf the title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from the application of this section only if such house is sold or
rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings or any employee or agent of any such
broker, agent, salesperson or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.05(A)(3) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer said title.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   The person has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   The person has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent in providing sales or rental facilities or services, other than in the
sale of his or her own personal residence, in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   The person is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
90.04 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
90.03 and
90.04(B) of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or to cause to be made, printed or
published, any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling which indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of his or her race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling
is not available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact
so available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental of a dwelling or to otherwise
make unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a
handicap of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For the purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person the equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All of the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide so as to allow for passage
by handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets , thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing for accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people, commonly cited as ANSI A117.1,
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (A)(8)(c)3.c. above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin in making available such a
transaction or in the terms or conditions of such a transaction.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or the providing of other
financial assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property from taking into consideration factors
other than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial
status.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, membership in or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility related to the business
of selling and renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or her in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.04 through
90.07 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, including those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion or from giving preference to such persons unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose
from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this division (C), HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons as defined in the state or federal programs;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 90.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and the referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the Mayor.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, because of a lack
of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer enforcement
proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, the city herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of a violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the Mayor shall refer all
such complaints to the Commission as provided under division (A) above for the
purpose of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the city shall administer
their departments, programs and activities related to housing and urban
development in a manner so as to affirmatively further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the Mayor and the Commission to further such
purposes.
   (D)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall provide information on
available remedies to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such
information.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with those listed in divisions (A) through (C) below
shall be fined according to local, state and federal law, and shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both, if bodily
injury results, and shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or
for life if death results:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or has been applying for or participating in any service,
organization or facility related to the business of selling or renting
dwellings;
   (B)   Any citizen, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, because he or she
is or has been participating in, or in order to discourage such citizen or any
other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons to participate
in, any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or because he or she has been participating lawfully in
speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to
participate; or
   (C)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons the opportunity or
protection to so participate.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-1-2020)
CHAPTER 91: PUBLIC MEETINGS, ASSEMBLIES AND CELEBRATIONS
Section
Meetings and Assemblies
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Public conduct during meetings or assemblies
   
91.03   Duty of property owner or manager
   
91.04   Exemptions
Hartford City Heritage Days
   
91.15   Celebration dates
   
91.16   Parade details
   
91.17   Street closures
   
91.18   Responsible parties
   
91.19   Funding
MEETINGS AND ASSEMBLIES
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVITY. A public meeting or assembly.
   FUNERAL PROCESSION. A single direct movement of a group of persons from a
mortuary or church to the place of burial of a human body while under the
direction of an authorized funeral director.
   PUBLIC MEETING OR ASSEMBLY. A planned or organized gathering of a group of
persons or any ceremony, show, exhibition or pageant which may reasonably be
expected to result in the gathering of a group of persons upon any public
street, park or other public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.010)
§ 91.02 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING MEETINGS OR ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Consent needed to assemble. It shall be unlawful for any person to
assemble on a private parking lot or private property without the consent of
the owner or manager of the parking lot or private property.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.040)
   (B)   Prohibited actions.
      (1)   In accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, it is
unlawful for any person to unreasonably obstruct, impede or interfere with any
public meeting or assembly or with any person, vehicle or animal participating
in such a meeting or assembly.
      (2)   Unless by direction of the owner or manager, it shall be unlawful
to intentionally block entrances or exits to any parking area adjacent to any
business building or public building in any manner whereby doing so causes any
difficulty in entering or exiting the premises or adjacent drive or parking
area, except for the purposes of private contractors engaged by the owner or
repairs by municipal authorities.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave an unoccupied motor
vehicle upon a walkway, driveway, parking area or driveway of any business
building or public building without attempting to park the vehicle.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave an unoccupied motor
vehicle upon a walkway, driveway or parking area of any business building or
public building and leave the premises to go elsewhere without the knowledge
and consent of the owner, manager or person in charge of the premises if the
premises is so posted by the owner or manager.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.030)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER OR MANAGER.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or manager of a public or business
premises to post notice in a conspicuous location by one or more signs
displaying the fact that the premises is protected by the terms of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.040)
§ 91.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any of the following:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions; or
   (C)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided that the activities are authorized by the
school district and are under the immediate direction and supervision of the
school authorities by the school district to approve and supervise the
activity.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.020)
HARTFORD CITY HERITAGE DAYS
§ 91.15 CELEBRATION DATES.
   The Heritage Days Celebration for calendar year 2018 and all subsequent
years will be held either the second or third weekend in May, consisting of a
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday.
(Res. 2019-07, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 91.16 PARADE DETAILS.
   (A)   For the calendar year 2019 and all subsequent years, the Heritage
Parade will be held at 6:00 p.m. on the Wednesday of the Heritage Days
Celebration.
   (B)   The parade will start at the armory on North Jefferson Street and
proceed south, ending at the parking lot at Water Street and Jefferson Street.
   (C)   The City Police Department shall provide escort service for said
parade, and the Street Department will post “no parking” signs along the parade
route for the hours of 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
(Res. 2019-07, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 91.17 STREET CLOSURES.
   (A)   The following streets will be closed from 3:00 p.m. on Tuesday until
11:30 a.m. on Sunday:
      (1)   N. High Street between Main Street and Franklin Street;
      (2)   S. High Street at the alley between Washington Street and Water
Street;
      (3)   N. Jefferson Street at the alley between Franklin Street and Main
Street;
      (4)   S. Jefferson Street at the south intersection and east intersection
of Washington Street;
      (5)   W. Main Street at the alley between N. Walnut Street and N. High
Street;
      (6)   E. Main Street at the alley between N. Jefferson Street and N.
Monroe Street; and
      (7)   W. Washington Street at the alley between N. Walnut Street and N.
Jefferson Street.
   (B)   The office of the Mayor will complete and submit a right-of-way permit
from the State Department of Transportation for the closing of State Road 26
from 3:00 p.m. Tuesday until 11:30 a.m. on Sunday.
(Res. 2019-07, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 91.18 RESPONSIBLE PARTIES.
   (A)   The city will provide water service and hook-ups.
   (B)   The city will pay the American Electric Power Company electric bills
for the celebration period upon receipt of a detailed bill.
   (C)   All proper closings and barricades will be the responsibility of the
Street Department.
   (D)   In an effort of spirit and cooperation, the city’s crews will:
      (1)   Fill and deliver sandbags needed for the tents (Street Department);
and
      (2)   Place trash receptacles at appropriate locations throughout the
festival area and empty said receptacles on a daily basis from Thursday through
Sunday at a time determined by the Street Superintendent.
(Res. 2019-07, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 91.19 FUNDING.
   The city hereby commits an annual pledge to the Heritage Days Committee in
the amount of $3,000, to be paid upon a fully-executed claim.
(Res. 2019-07, passed 3-4-2019)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Animal waste
Dogs and Cats
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Required license and fee
   
92.17   Required immunization
   
92.18   Required sterilization
   
92.19   Protection of dogs and cats
   
92.20   Appropriate shelter, food and water
   
92.21   Actions constituting a nuisance
   
92.22   Dogs and cats at large prohibited
   
92.23   Confining female dogs and cats in heat
   
92.24   Impounding
   
92.25   Kennel dogs
   
92.26   Exemptions
Other Animals
   
92.40   Domestic animals
   
92.41   Rabbits and fowl
   
92.42   Wild animals and vicious animals
   
92.43   Animals at large prohibited
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ANIMAL. Any species of bird, mammal, amphibian or reptile.
      GUIDE DOG. Any animal serving a blind person in an auxiliary ocular, or
eye, capacity.
   (B)   Prohibition against animal waste.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly allow an animal to defecate on a public
street, sidewalk, alley or any other right-of-way of the city, on public land,
in public buildings or on private property without the permission of the
landowner.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not apply to guide dogs.
   (C)   Removal of animal waste. If an animal shall defecate, the owner of the
animal is not in violation of this section if that owner immediately removes
any solid waste material and disposes of it in a manner inoffensive to
reasonable public sensibilities. Failure to comply with this division (C) is a
violation.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The animal control shelter operated by Blackford County
Animal Shelter, Inc.
   AT LARGE. Any licensed or unlicensed dog or cat found off of the premises of
its owner which is not:
      (1)   Under the control of the owner of the animal, a member of the
owner’s immediate family or a competent person;
      (2)   Retained within a motor vehicle;
      (3)   Housed in a veterinary hospital or kennel;
      (4)   On a leash, cord or chain; or
      (5)   “At heal” beside a competent person and obedient to that person’s
commands.
   CATS. Both male and female animals of the feline species, whether altered or
not.
   DOGS. Both male and female animals of the canine species, whether altered or
not.
   HARBORING. Any person who suffers or permits any dog or cat to frequent or
remain on or within his or her home, building, premises or enclosure shall be
deemed to be HARBORING the animal within the meaning of this subchapter.
   OFFICER. Every law enforcement officer of the County Sheriff’s Department or
City Police Department and employees of Blackford County Animal Shelter, Inc.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, sheltering or harboring a dog or cat.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 92.16 REQUIRED LICENSE AND FEE.
   Every owner of a dog or cat shall pay a fee to and procure a license from
Blackford County Animal Shelter, Inc., at 2520 North 200 East, Hartford City,
Indiana 47348.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 REQUIRED IMMUNIZATION.
   (A)   All dogs and cats six months or older shall be vaccinated against
rabies. It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any dog or cat not to be
vaccinated against rabies. A tag showing evidence of proper vaccination shall
be worn by every dog or cat when not confined.
   (B)   Before the issuance of a license, the owner shall furnish a
veterinarian’s certificate showing that the dog or cat for which the license is
sought has been vaccinated, and that the vaccination does not expire within six
months from the effective date of the license.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 REQUIRED STERILIZATION.
   (A)   Each dog or cat over the age of six months which is kept in the city
shall have been sterilized and rendered incapable of reproducing by a licensed
veterinarian unless a veterinarian has certified in writing that it would not
be in the animal’s best medical interest.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to own a dog or cat not in
compliance with this section and for which the owner does not have a current
and valid intact breeder’s permit.
   (C)   (1)   A veterinarian who sterilizes a dog or cat shall complete in
triplicate a certificate containing:
         (a)   The owner’s name, address and phone number;
         (b)   The date of sterilization;
         (c)   A description of the animal;
         (d)   The name of the veterinarian’s facility; and
         (e)   The veterinarian’s signature.
      (2)   One copy shall be provided to the owner, one copy to the
veterinarian and one copy to Blackford County Animal Shelter, Inc.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 PROTECTION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   It is unlawful for any person to maliciously or mischievously injure or kill
any dog or cat by any means whatsoever.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 APPROPRIATE SHELTER, FOOD AND WATER.
   (A)   No person shall confine or allow his or her dog or cat to remain
outside without access to appropriate shelter, which shall be defined as the
following.
      (1)   Doghouses must be weatherproof and have a protected entrance or
wind break or a flexible flap, and must have four sides and a bottom elevated
from the bare ground.
      (2)   Doghouses must contain bedding which resists dampness, such as
straw or cedar chips, during the winter season between November 1 and March 31
or when the real temperature is 45ºF or lower.
      (3)   Kennel areas must be cleaned of feces and debris every 24 hours.
   (B)   All animals shall have fresh, potable water and be provided with food
which is nutritional for the species in adequate amounts so as to maintain good
health.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 ACTIONS CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog or cat to allow or permit
the dog or cat to pass upon the premises of another and thereby cause damage
to, or interference with, the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog or cat to allow or permit
the dog or cat to cause serious annoyance or disturbance to any person or
persons by frequent and habitual howling, yelping, barking or otherwise, or by
running after or chasing persons, bicycles, automobiles or other vehicles.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 DOGS AND CATS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No person owning or having charge, care or custody of any dog or cat shall
permit the dog or cat to run at large, whether the dog or cat be licensed or
unlicensed.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 CONFINING FEMALE DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT.
   (A)   Every female dog or cat shall be confined in a building or other
secure, humane enclosure while in heat in a manner so that the female dog or
cat cannot come in contact with any male dog or cat except for planned breeding
purposes.
   (B)   While confined, the female dog or cat cannot be readily available for
indiscriminate breeding.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every officer to capture each dog and cat
which has been caused, permitted or allowed to be in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter and to deliver the dog or cat to Blackford County
Animal Shelter, Inc.
   (B)   Any licensed or unvaccinated dog or cat found at large or any
unlicensed dog or cat found at large in violation of §§
92.22 or
92.23 of this chapter shall be seized and impounded by Blackford County Animal
Shelter, Inc.
   (C)   The owner of a licensed dog or cat shall be notified within two days
that upon payment of the impounding fee, plus the cost of food and care in a
reasonable amount, the dog or cat will be returned. If an impounded licensed
dog or cat is not recovered by its owner within five days after notice, the dog
or cat may be put up for adoption.
   (D)   Upon proper identification, an impounded unlicensed dog or cat may be
recovered by the owner by payment of the license fee, impounding fee and
boarding costs, as well as the cost of vaccination if vaccination is required
by §
92.17 of this chapter. If the dog or cat is not claimed within five days after
notice, it may be put up for adoption.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 92.25 KENNEL DOGS.
   Kennel dogs kept or raised solely for the bona fide purpose of sale and kept
under constant restraint are subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 92.26 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply:
   (A)   To dogs brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any
dog show; or
   (B)   To “seeing eye” or guide dogs properly trained to assist blind persons
when the dogs are actually used by blind persons for the purpose of aiding them
in going from place to place.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017)
OTHER ANIMALS
§ 92.40 DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Within the limits of the city, no person shall keep or permit to be
kept on his or her premises any horse, mare, colt, mule, jackass, jenny, burro,
pony, bull, ox, calf, goat, sheep, hog, pig, llama, alpaca or any other hoofed
animal unless such person shall have been engaged in a farming operation
involving these animals on such premises prior to the passage of this
subchapter.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any animal brought into the city for a
circus, parade or animal show or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.010) (Ord. 1029, passed 7-5-1983; Ord. 2013-16, passed 10-
7-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.41 RABBITS AND FOWL.
   (A)   All rabbits and fowl within the city limits shall be completely
confined in an enclosure of adequate size which has sides, one or more doors, a
roof and a floor, and shall be kept in the enclosure at all times.
   (B)   No rabbit or fowl shall be permitted to run in an enclosure at all
times. No rabbit or fowl shall be permitted to run in an enclosure pen even
though the pen may be connected to a proper enclosure as provided in division
(A) above.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.010) (Ord. 1029, passed 7-5-1983) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.42 WILD ANIMALS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his or her premises any
wild animal or other animal known to be vicious.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any animal brought into the city for a
period of less than seven days for the purpose of a circus, parade or animal
show or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.010) (Ord. 1029, passed 7-5-1983) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.43 ANIMALS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Public property. No person who keeps, owns or harbors any animal
referred to in this subchapter shall cause, permit or allow the same to be at
large or run at large upon any street, alley or other public place within the
city limits.
   (B)   Private property. No person who keeps, owns or harbors any animal
referred to in this subchapter shall cause, permit or allow the same to be at
large or run at large upon any private property or premises within the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Animal waste. Any person who violates the provisions of §
92.01 of this chapter shall pay a fine as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $25;
      (2)   Second offense: $50; and
      (3)   Subsequent offenses: $100.
   (C)   Dogs and cats.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
92.16,
92.17 or
92.20 through
92.23 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not
exceeding $20 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense or $100 for the
third or subsequent offenses, provided that the city must allege and prove the
dates and case numbers of the previous convictions. If the dog or cat was not
wearing a current tag attached thereto, the person shall be fined in an amount
double the fine set forth in this division (C)(1).
      (2)   Any owner violating any of the provisions of §
92.23 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not
exceeding $100.
      (3)   A violation of §
92.18 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not less than $100.
   (D)   Other animals. Any person who violates any provision of §§
92.40 through
92.43 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5 and not
more than $50, plus court costs. Each day shall constitute a separate violation
of §§
92.40 through
92.43 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.030)
(Ord. 1029, passed 7-5-1983; Ord. 2016-09, passed 10-3-2016; Ord. 2017-10,
passed 12-4-2017)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Nuisances prohibited
   
93.02   Abatement notices
   
93.03   Hearings
   
93.04   Failure to abate and collection of costs
Noise
   
93.15   Prohibited noise
   
93.16   Respecting quiet zones
   
93.17   Disposition of fines
   
93.18   Permits
   
93.19   Exemptions
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall erect, construct, cause, permit, keep or maintain
within the city limits anything whatsoever which is injurious to the public
health or safety or which is offensive to the senses of inhabitants. The
existence of any of the above is declared to be a nuisance and shall be
regulated as set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.010)
   (B)   The following are declared to be nuisances, but shall not be construed
as preventing any other thing from being declared a nuisance pursuant to the
standards of division (A) above:
      (1)   Erecting or using any building or other place for the exercise of
any trade, employment or manufacture which, by occasioning dense smoke or ash,
noxious exhalations or other annoyances, becomes harmful to the health, safety
or property of individuals or the public;
      (2)   Causing or suffering any offal, filth or waste to be collected or
to remain in any place to the prejudice of others;
      (3)   Obstructing or encumbering, by any means whatsoever, the private
ways or the public streets, alleys and places so as to create a physical threat
to the public; and
      (4)   Billboards, signboards and advertising signs, whether erected and
constructed on public or private property, or overhanging branches or
vegetation obstructing or impairing the view of any portion of a pubic street
or alley of the city so as to render dangerous the use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.020)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 ABATEMENT NOTICES.
   (A)   Issuance of notice. Whenever the Police Chief finds that a nuisance
exists, he or she shall cause to be served upon the property owner, as shown by
the records of the County Auditor, a written notice to abate the nuisance
within a reasonable time after the notice. The notice shall be sent to the
property owner by certified mail.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.030)
   (B)   Contents of notice. The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance;
      (3)   A statement of the act or acts necessary to abate the nuisance;
      (4)   A reasonable time within which to complete the abatement; and
      (5)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the time prescribed, then the city will
abate said nuisance and assess the cost against the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.040)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a hearing with the
officer ordering the abatement to determine whether a nuisance does exist. A
request for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the officer
ordering the abatement within the time stated in the notice or else it will be
conclusively presumed that a nuisance exists that must be abated as ordered.
   (B)   (1)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall
render a written decision as to whether a nuisance exits. If he or she finds
that a nuisance exists, then he or she must order it abated within an
additional time which is reasonable under the circumstances.
      (2)   An appeal from this decision may be made by immediately filing
written notice with the Hearing Officer. This appeal will be heard before the
Common Council at a time and place fixed by the Common Council. The findings of
the Common Council shall be ordered abated within a time reasonable under the
circumstances.
   (C)   The Director of Redevelopment and Environmental Affairs shall perform
the duties of Hearing Judge as required under this section and chapter, and
shall fulfill all responsibilities accruing to the position of Hearing Judge as
herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.050) (Ord. 2000-1, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 93.04 FAILURE TO ABATE AND COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   If a person notified to abate a nuisance neglects or fails to abate as
directed, then the city may perform the action or actions required to abate
said nuisance, keeping an accurate account of expenses incurred. An itemized
expense account shall be certified and filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.060)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall send by certified mail a statement of the
total expenses incurred to the property owner who has failed to abide by the
notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not been paid
within one month, then the Clerk- Treasurer shall certify the costs to the
County Auditor. The amount due shall then be collected with, and in the same
manner as, general property taxes and disbursed into the General Fund of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.070)
Penalty, see §
93.99
NOISE
§ 93.15 PROHIBITED NOISE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or assist
in creating any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise in the city. Noise of a
character, intensity and duration so as to be detrimental to the public health,
welfare and peace is prohibited.
   (B)   Loud and disturbing noises are declared to be, but are not exclusive
to, the following:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device in any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except as a danger signal, so as to create
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound, or the sounding of such device for an
unreasonable period of time, or the use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle
other than a police, fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (2)   The playing of any radio, phonograph or other musical instrument in
a manner or with a volume so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of any person in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence,
particularly during the hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (3)   The keeping of any animal or bird which shall disturb the comfort
and repose of any person in the vicinity by causing frequent or long, continued
noises;
      (4)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair,
so loaded or in such a manner so as to create loud grating, grinding, rattling
or other noises;
      (5)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
or engine, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a
warning of danger;
      (6)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet and repose of persons in the vicinity
thereof;
      (7)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or service
station in any residential area so as to cause loud and offensive noises to be
emitted therefrom between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays or
on Sundays;
      (8)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to a
school, institution of learning or court while the same are in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of those institutions, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed in those
streets indicating the area is a school, court or hospital area;
      (9)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed in the
streets adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (10)   The erection, including excavation, or demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except for in cases of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety, and then only with a permit from
the Building Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days
or less while said emergency continues;
      (11)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is muffled and reduced;
      (12)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and venders
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (13)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show or display or sale
of merchandise by the creation of noise; or
      (14)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising or other purposes, except where specific
license is received from the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.090) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 RESPECTING QUIET ZONES.
   Within any quiet zone established by the Board of Public Works and Safety of
the city, no person shall make, cause to be made, permit or suffer to be made
any loud, unusual or unnecessary noises, nor disturb or otherwise annoy the
inhabitants of the quiet zone, and especially the occupants and patients of any
hospital, with loud, unusual or unnecessary noise, disorder or tumult of any
kind.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.090) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 DISPOSITION OF FINES.
   All fines collected upon the conviction of any person charged with a
violation of any of the provisions established in §§
93.15 and
93.16 of this chapter shall be deposited in the City General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.090)
§ 93.18 PERMITS.
   (A)   The Police Department of the city may issue guidelines defining the
procedures to be followed in applying for a permit and the specific criteria to
be considered in deciding to issue a permit. Permits may contain any conditions
necessary to limit the adverse impact of the activity, including a time limit.
   (B)   The Police Department of the city shall have the authority to issue
permits for:
      (1)   Holidays, celebrations, concerts, parades, school and athletic
events, special park and recreational activities or other special events, both
public or personal; and
      (2)   Persons who demonstrate that bringing the source of sound or
activity for which a permit is sought into compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter would constitute a hardship on the applicant, the community or
other persons, and that the adverse impact on the health, safety and welfare of
the persons affected by the permit has been outweighed by the hardship.
   (C)   Noncompliance with any condition of a permit issued shall terminate
the permit and subject the person or persons holding the permit to the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.090) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter pertaining to restrictions on noise
emission and the emission of sounds shall not apply when the noise or sound
emission is for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence of an
emergency nor to the emission of sound in the performance of work to prevent or
alleviate physical or property damage threatened or caused by a public calamity
or other emergency.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.090)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Nuisances.
      (1)   In addition to the collection of costs as defined in §
93.04 of this chapter, any property owner or owners failing to abate nuisances
under the provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.04 of this chapter shall be assessed a penalty of $100 per count of
violation of §§
93.01 through
93.04 of this chapter.
      (2)   Each and every day or portion thereof which elapses after the final
order to abate the nuisance under the procedures defined in §§
93.01 through
93.04 of this chapter shall be deemed to constitute a single and individual
count of violation and shall be assessed the fine for each violation so
defined.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.080)
   (C)   Noise.
      (1)   Any person found in violation of the motor vehicle noise limits set
forth in §
93.15 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200.
      (2)   Any person found in violation of any other provision of §§
93.15 through
93.19 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25 for a first offense, not
less than $75 for a second offense and not less than $150 for a third and
subsequent offenses.
      (3)   Each day that a violation is in effect shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.090)
(Ord. 2002-16, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 2003-04, passed 7-7-2003)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Weed Control
   
94.01   Definition
   
94.02   Unlawful growth prohibited
   
94.03   Notice to remove
   
94.04   Removal costs charged
Abandoned and Junk Vehicles
   
94.15   Purpose
   
94.16   Definitions
   
94.17   Enforcement authority
   
94.18   Written notice to remove
   
94.19   Fees and expenses charged
Open Storage of Hazardous Materials
   
94.30   Unsafe open storage prohibited
   
94.31   Types of materials
   
94.32   Storage restrictions
   
94.33   Notice to abate
 
   
94.99   Penalty
WEED CONTROL
§ 94.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION.
      (1)   Grass, weeds, volunteer plants, shrubs, bushes or other vegetation
growth which is not planted or cultivated, excepting trees, flowers, garden
vegetables and agricultural crops such as hay and pasture, and which exceed six
inches in height.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, any and all dead and diseased flora
which meets the description set forth in §
157.43 of this code, even if the same be trees, flowers, garden vegetables or
agricultural crops, may be considered WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION for the purpose
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.010) (Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2009-11, passed
8-3-2009)
§ 94.02 UNLAWFUL GROWTH PROHIBITED.
   The owner of any lot or parcel of land within the city shall not allow the
grass, lawn, weeds or vegetation growing on the lot or parcel of land to exceed
six inches in length.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.010) (Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2009-11, passed
8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-3, the Common Council shall require the
owners of real property in the city to cut and remove weeds and other rank
vegetation in excess of six inches in length growing on that property.
   (B)   The adoption and publication of this subchapter shall constitute
notice to each property owner.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.020) (Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-6-2005)
§ 94.04 REMOVAL COSTS CHARGED.
   (A)   If a landowner fails to remove vegetation as described herein, then
the city shall remove the vegetation. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make a
certified endorsement of the costs incurred by the city in the removal. The
statement shall be delivered to the owner of the property by mail, postage
prepaid, at the mailing address maintained by the County Treasurer for real
estate tax correspondence.
   (B)   Simultaneously with division (A) above, the Clerk-Treasurer shall file
a certified copy of the statement of costs in the office of the Auditor of the
county in which the property is located. The Auditor shall place the amount
claimed on a tax duplicate against the property affected by the work, and the
amount shall be collected as taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.030) (Ord. 655, passed 6-1-1964; Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-6-
2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
§ 94.15 PURPOSE.
   The Common Council, recognizing the existence of abandoned and junk vehicles
and vehicles constituting a nuisance in the yards of residences within the
city, in open lots and encroaching upon the rights-of-way of streets, alleys
and highways within the city, and being desirous to obtain and enforce the
removal of such vehicles in order to protect the general welfare of the city
and its citizens, does hereby and herewith declare such abandoned and junk
vehicles to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 94.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES. Any one of the following:
      (1)   A vehicle illegally located on public property;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three
days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner so as to
constitute a hazard or an obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle which has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of said property for more than 48
hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or which is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle which has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon the request of an officer enforcing a statue or ordinance other
than this subchapter if the vehicle removed is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner’s agent within 15 business days of the vehicle’s removal; or
      (7)   A vehicle which is in a mechanically- inoperable condition or with
no current registration and left on private property continuously in a location
which is visible from public property for more than ten days.
   INOPERABLE CONDITION. All types of motor-driven vehicles used or usable for
the conveyance of persons or property which are unable to move under their own
power due to defective or missing parts, and which have remained in such
condition for a continuous period of not less than ten consecutive days. Such a
motor vehicle shall also include all types of motor-driven vehicles which,
although able to move under their own power, are in such a condition due to
defective or missing parts so as to be dangerous or unfit for further use as a
conveyance upon the public highways.
   NUISANCE. Because of the danger to health from vermin and insects and to
children attracted by the same, motor vehicles in an inoperative condition and
motor vehicles unfit for further use which are situated within the corporate
limits of the city and which are not inside a garage or other building are
hereby declared and defined to be a NUISANCE, except when such motor vehicle is
within a lawfully operated junk yard or a yard lawfully operated for the
storage of vehicles awaiting permission for junking from the State Bureau of
Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 94.17 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   Any member of the City Police Department is designated to enforce this
subchapter within the city.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 94.18 WRITTEN NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Written notice giving five days to remove such motor vehicle shall be placed
upon the motor vehicle to be removed. When convenient, copies of said written
notice shall be served upon any adult occupying the real estate upon which such
motor vehicle is located or upon the record owner of such motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 FEES AND EXPENSES CHARGED.
   The city may charge any expenses incurred by it in the enforcement of this
subchapter, including all towing and storage charges, to the owner or occupant
of the real estate upon which that vehicle is located or to the owner of the
motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
OPEN STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
§ 94.30 UNSAFE OPEN STORAGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having possession and
control of real estate within the corporate limits of the city to permit the
open storage of materials in a hazardous or unhealthful manner as set out in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.010)
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to the open storage of materials which
consist of materials not stored in a permanent enclosure, warehouse, garage or
fenced area. A fenced area or enclosed area must be sufficiently restrictive so
as to prevent the materials contained from being offensive or from presenting
an unreasonable health or safety hazard to the community.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.020)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.31 TYPES OF MATERIALS.
   Types of materials:
   (A)   Wood materials such as lumber, firewood or paper products;
   (B)   Stone or masonry materials such as bricks, concrete blocks, sand or
gravel;
   (C)   Glass materials such as bottles or plate glass;
   (D)   Metal materials such as scrap steel iron or used metal products; and
   (E)   Rubber materials such as used tires.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.020)
§ 94.32 STORAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   The following restrictions are set out pursuant to maintaining materials set
forth in §
94.31 of this chapter.
   (A)   The open storage of materials shall not be offensive to persons of
ordinary sensibility. The materials stored shall not present a substantial
visual detraction to the community. The materials shall not produce obnoxious
odors. Handling or processing the materials shall not produce excessive noise
discomfort.
   (B)   Materials shall be stored in a manner reasonably calculated to
minimize the danger of physical injury to the general public or passers-by.
      (1)   Materials must be placed a distance of at least ten feet from the
surface of any street, alley, sidewalk or passage, thereby reducing the
attraction to children, minimizing vehicle line-of-sight obstructions and
allowing for the safe passage of pedestrians and motorists.
      (2)   Materials must be stacked in a mechanically-sound manner so as to
prevent the materials from shifting or falling. The stack height shall be
limited to two times the lesser of the width or length of the stack.
   (C)   Care in the placement and maintenance of stored materials shall be
exercised to reduce potential fire hazards. Flammable materials in the nature
of wood or rubber materials shall not be stored within ten feet of any dwelling
house. Open storage of any highly flammable or combustible materials is not
permitted.
   (D)   The open storage of the materials described in this subchapter shall
not be permitted to become a health hazard. The materials stored or maintained
shall not present an unreasonable attraction to rodents, birds or other pests.
Decaying, insect-infested or otherwise unsanitary materials are not permitted
to be stored or collected.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.030) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.33 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Any person who shall violate the restrictions set forth in this subchapter
will be given notice by the City Police Department. The person shall have ten
days to correct the condition, beginning from the date of receiving official
notice of a violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.040) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Weed control.
      (1)   In addition to the collection of costs assessed in §
94.04 of this chapter, any landowner or owners failing to remove vegetation
under the provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.04 of this chapter within the ten days allowed for removal after
notification under the terms of §§
94.01 through
94.04 of this chapter shall be assessed a penalty of $50 per count of violation
defined in §§
94.01 through
94.04 of this chapter.
      (2)   Each and every day, or portion thereof, that elapses after the ten
days allowed to remove the vegetation under the procedures defined in §§
94.01 through
94.04 of this chapter shall be deemed to constitute a single and individual
count of violation and shall be assessed the penalty herein established for
each violation so defined.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.040)
   (C)   Abandoned and junk vehicles.
      (1)   Any person who fails to comply with any order to remove an
abandoned or junk vehicle issued under §§
94.15 through
94.19 of this chapter shall be deemed to have committed an ordinance violation,
and upon conviction, the owner of the abandoned or junk vehicle, the occupant
of the real estate upon which that vehicle is located or the owner of that real
estate shall be fined $50 for the first offense and $100 for each subsequent
offense within one year, plus the court costs of the enforcement of §§
94.15 through
94.19 of this chapter, including towing, storage fees and disposal costs.
      (2)   Each day that a violation occurs or continues after the expiration
date of the order to remove such vehicle shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Hazardous materials.
      (1)   If a person continues to violate the provisions of §§
94.30 through
94.33 of this chapter after being given proper notice to abate as set forth in
§
94.33 of this chapter, then such person shall be assessed a civil penalty as
set forth in §
32.07 of this code, and each day such violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall continue to violate any
of the provisions of §§
94.30 through
94.33 of this chapter beyond the time limit provided for in the written notice
of the violation shall be assessed a civil penalty as set forth in §
32.07 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any violation may
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.050)
(Ord. 970, passed 8-15-1977; Ord. 2002-17, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 2006-02,
passed 6-5-2006; Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-1-2016)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Open Burning
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Refuse burning prohibited
   
95.03   Trade waste burning restrictions
   
95.04   Agricultural waste burning restrictions
   
95.05   Tree leaf burning restrictions
Fireworks
   
95.20   Location restrictions
   
95.21   Date and time restrictions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. The byproducts of waste materials from any type of
agricultural operation.
   REFUSE. Any type of filth, vegetable matter, straw, paper, food, wood,
glassware, garbage, rubbish, sweepings of any kind or any type of material
which is being disposed of as waste.
   TRADE WASTE. The waste products from any manufacturing operation or any
business operation.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.010)
§ 95.02 REFUSE BURNING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to cause, suffer
or allow refuse to be burned within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 TRADE WASTE BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall permit the disposal of trade waste by open burning,
except that the open burning of trade waste may be permitted when it can be
shown that open burning is necessary and in the public interest.
   (B)   Any person intending to initiate the open burning of trade waste shall
file an application to do so with the Mayor. The application shall state the
following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person submitting the
application;
      (2)   The type, purpose or activity involved;
      (3)   A description of the equipment and operating practices and of the
type, quality and composition of the trade waste to be permitted;
      (4)   The schedule of burning operations;
      (5)   The exact location where open burning will be used to dispose of
trade waste; and
      (6)   The reasons why no method other than burning can be used for the
disposal of trade wastes.
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor shall have the authority to approve any application
for the open burning of trade waste and shall do so in writing.
      (2)   His or her approval shall be on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer in the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.030) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 AGRICULTURAL WASTE BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The open burning of agricultural waste shall be permitted only between
the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., and only at times when the actual
forecast of wind, when given by the local Weather Bureau, is five mph or less.
   (B)   The open burning of agricultural waste shall be done only when
necessary and when no fire hazard will occur.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.040) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 TREE LEAF BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   The burning of tree leaves in a manner that shall cause nuisance, detriment
or annoyance to any person of the public is prohibited, except between the
hours of 10:00 a.m. to one hour before sundown when no fire hazard will occur.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.050) Penalty, see §
95.99
FIREWORKS
§ 95.20 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No person within the limits of the city may ignite, discharge or use
fireworks at a site other than:
   (A)   The property of the person; or
   (B)   The property of another person who has given permission to use
fireworks on his or her property.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 DATE AND TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   Fireworks may not be used, ignited or discharged within the limits of the
city on dates and at times other than as follows:
   (A)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. on June 29, June 30,
July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8 and July 9;
   (B)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m., midnight, on July 4;
or
   (C)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Open burning.
      (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter shall be assessed a civil penalty as set forth in §
32.07 of this code. Each and every violation of the provisions of §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.060)
      (2)   Any person found violating the provisions of §
95.05 of this chapter and found guilty shall be punished by a fine as follows:
         (a)   First violation: $10; and
         (b)   Each subsequent violation: $25.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.050)
   (C)   Fireworks. Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §§
95.20 or
95.21 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not
exceeding $20 for a first offense, $50 for a second offense and $100 for a
third and subsequent offences.
(Ord. 968, passed 10-3-1977; Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-5-2006; Ord. 2018-12,
passed 11-5-2018)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
City Parks and Pools
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Hours of operation
   
96.03   Preservation of property and natural features
   
96.04   Hunting and molesting wildlife
   
96.05   Camping
   
96.06   Fires
   
96.07   Smoking and littering prohibited
   
96.08   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
96.09   Disorderly conduct
   
96.10   Traffic and parking
   
96.11   Bringing dogs and cats
   
96.12   Fireworks, firearms and weapons
   
96.13   Commercial enterprises
   
96.14   Commercial advertisements
Blackford High School Trail
   
96.25   Usage regulations and restrictions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
CITY PARKS AND POOLS
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Parks and Recreation of the city.
   PARK. Any land owned or controlled by the Board of Parks and Recreation of
the city.
   PERSON. Includes persons and corporations.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.150)
§ 96.02 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All parks will open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 9:00 p.m., with the exception
of parks which have a designated athletic field, swimming pool or court
lighting, where said parks will open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 11:00 p.m. The
basketball court at Sigma Phi Gamma park shall close at 9:00 p.m. Hours may be
extended by permission of the Board.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 96.03 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY AND NATURAL FEATURES.
   No person shall injure, deface or disturb any part of a park or any
building, sign or equipment, nor may other property or minerals be removed,
injured or destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.030) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 HUNTING AND MOLESTING WILDLIFE.
   (A)   No person shall hunt, pursue with dogs, trap or in any other way
molest any wild bird or animal found within the confines of the parks, nor
therein rob or molest any bird nest or take the eggs of any bird.
   (B)   A person may fish from park property if he or she follows the fishing
regulations as stated by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.040) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 CAMPING.
   No person shall establish or maintain any camp or other temporary lodging
place on park property without a permit from the Board.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.070) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 FIRES.
   (A)   No person shall start a fire in any park except for fires for eating
purposes in park grills. Privately-owned grills may only be used in areas
adjacent to shelter houses.
   (B)   All fires shall be put out by the person or persons who started or are
using the same before leaving the immediate vicinity of the fire.
   (C)   The dumping of hot ashes or fire from portable grills onto the grass
or plants is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.050) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 SMOKING AND LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Smoking. All of the following acts are hereby declared unlawful and a
violation when committed or caused to be committed by any person or groups of
persons within the boundaries or upon the lands of any park owned or operated
by the city, except for in the parking areas located within said parks:
      (1)   Smoking any cigarettes, cigars, pipes, other tobacco products or
other smokable products; or
      (2)   Littering any city-owned real estate by placing tobacco products or
tobacco containers on the ground of any part of real estate owned by the city.
   (B)   Littering. No person shall drop, cast or spill litter on park property
except for in receptacles provided for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.060)
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 10-3-2011) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bring, have, carry, serve or drink alcoholic beverages
within the parks.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.020) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall, either by word or act, indulge in any noisy,
boisterous, disorderly or indecent conduct, nor in any manner so as to disturb
the peace or good order of the community within the parks.
   (B)   No person shall engage in any active game endangering other persons in
the parks.
   (C)   No person shall drink intoxicating liquor or be drunk, partake in any
form of gambling or do any indecent, lascivious, lewd or improper act therein.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.080) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 TRAFFIC AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall drive or propel, or cause to be driven or propelled,
any vehicle at a greater rate of speed than ten mph along or over any road
within the parks.
   (B)   Paths established for pedestrians and non- motorized vehicles shall
not be used by motorized vehicles.
   (C)   No person shall park any motorcar, motorcycle or other vehicle within
the parks except for in places designated for parking.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.090) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 BRINGING DOGS AND CATS.
   No dog, cat or any animal destructive to wildlife is permitted in the parks
unless said animal is controlled at all times on a leash not more than eight
feet long.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.120) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 FIREWORKS, FIREARMS AND WEAPONS.
   No person shall possess or discharge any firearms, fireworks or other
weapons within the parks without a permit from the Board.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.130) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.13 COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale any article, thing, privilege or
service within the parks without a permit from the Board.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.100) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.14 COMMERCIAL ADVERTISEMENTS.
   No person shall distribute or place commercial advertisements within the
parks without a permit from the Board
(Prior Code, § 8.42.110) Penalty, see §
96.99
BLACKFORD HIGH SCHOOL TRAIL
§ 96.25 USAGE REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The following regulations shall be in full force and effect with
respect to the portion of Blackford High School Trail lying north of Park
Avenue within the limits of the incorporated city.
   (B)   The regulations are as follows.
      (1)   Parking is only permitted in designated parking areas, and no
parking is allowed along streets, highways or roadways.
      (2)   Trail hours are from dawn until dusk seven days a week, and use of
the trail outside of these hours is prohibited.
      (3)   Users of the trail do so at their own risk.
      (4)   Those using the trail must stop at all crossroads and must obey all
signage.
      (5)   Users must remove all trash and waste from the trail and the
property of adjoining landowners.
      (6)   The only animals allowed on the trail are pets which are kept on a
leash. Pets must be kept off of private property, and owners must clean up
after their pets and must not throw animal waste or other trash onto adjoining
landowners’s property.
      (7)   All motorized vehicles are prohibited on the trail, including
scooters, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, golf carts, go-karts and other
similar motorized vehicles. E-bikes and peddle-assisted bikes are allowed on
the trail as long as they do not exceed a speed of 15 mph.
      (8)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices which are a single
passenger, self-balancing mode of transport with a maximum speed of 15 mph are
permitted on the trail.
      (9)   No person on the trail shall be in possession of or under the
influence of alcoholic beverages or illegal substances.
      (10)   No overnight camping or campfires are allowed on the trail.
      (11)   Due to the hazard for creating fires, smoking is prohibited on the
trail.
      (12)   No firearms, explosives, destructive devices or fireworks are
permitted on the trail.
      (13)   Hunting is prohibited on the trail.
      (14)   Vandalizing or intentional destruction or damage to the trail or
to any improvements located along the trail is a crime which shall be referred
to the County Prosecutor, and the city will pursue recovery of the cost of
repair or replacement from the offender.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 12-3-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Parks and pools.
      (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions and regulations of §§
96.01 through
96.14 of this chapter shall be assessed a civil penalty as set forth in §
32.07 of this code for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 8.42.140)
      (2)   Any person or groups of persons who shall commit a violation of any
provision of §
96.07(B) of this chapter shall have imposed upon them a fine of not less than
$50 and not more than $500. Each and every incident or commission by a person
or groups of persons or causing of said commission shall constitute an
individual violation.
   (C)   Blackford High School Trail. A violation of any of the provisions of §
96.25 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine in the sum of $50 for a
first violation and $100 for each additional violation. Each day any violation
of §
96.25 of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-5-2006; Ord. 2011-05, passed 10-3-2011; Ord. 2018-11,
passed 12-3-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   REGULATIONS BY PROFESSION
      
111.   OFF-PREMISES VEHICLE SALES
      
112.   PERSONAL SALES
      
113.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110: REGULATIONS BY PROFESSION
Section
   
110.01   Contractors
   
110.02   Plumbers
§ 110.01 CONTRACTORS.
   All contractors doing business within the limits of the city must register
with the City Clerk-Treasurer each calendar year, must show proof of insurance
or bonding and must pay an annual registration fee of $50 per year prior to
performing any work as a contractor within the city.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-8-2014)
§ 110.02 PLUMBERS.
   Before any water main can be tapped, service pipe connected therewith or
connection made with any branch pipe, the plumber engaged to do the work shall
present the same to the Water Superintendent. None but licensed plumbers will
be permitted to do the work.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.010)
CHAPTER 111: OFF-PREMISES VEHICLE SALES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Prohibitions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DEALER. A person licensed as a DEALER pursuant to I.C. 9-32-2.
   ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS.
      (1)   A permanent location owned or leased for the purpose of bartering,
trading or selling motor vehicles.
      (2)   The term ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS does not include any
residence, tent, temporary stand or permanent quarters temporarily occupied.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle, other than a semi-trailer, for
which the owner would be required to obtain a certificate of title pursuant to
I.C. 9-13-2-105.
   TEMPORARY LOCATION. A site other than an established place of business at
which a dealer exhibits for sale more than six motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.020)
§ 111.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   No dealer may sell or exhibit for sale any motor vehicle at any temporary
location within the city unless the dealer has an established place of business
located in the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any dealer who violates the prohibitions of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine of $100 per motor vehicle. Each day that the condition exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.030)
CHAPTER 112: PERSONAL SALES
Section
Garage Sales
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Required permit
   
112.04   Restrictions on duration and scheduling
   
112.05   Time restrictions
   
112.06   Advertising signs
   
112.07   Throughways to be unobstructed
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GARAGE SALES
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   It is deemed desirable and necessary that garage sales within the city be
controlled so as to prevent the unnecessary proliferation of nuisances and the
congestion and obstruction of streets and public ways within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.010)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CALENDAR YEAR. The period of time commencing at 12:00 a.m. on January 1 of
each calendar year and ending at 11:59 p.m. on December 31 of the same calendar
year.
   GARAGE SALE. A sale of household goods, furniture, equipment, utensils,
appliances, tools, personal clothing or effects, novelty items, glassware, farm
products or similar personal property which includes, but is not limited to,
any sale commonly termed a “porch sale,” “yard sale,” “lawn sale,” “group
family sale,” “rummage sale,” “white elephant sale,” “flea market sale” or
“attic sale,” provided, however, that the scope and coverage of the meaning of
the term GARAGE SALE shall be subject to interpretation by enforcement
personnel as the context indicates or requires.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.020)
§ 112.03 REQUIRED PERMIT.
   (A)   Prior to holding or allowing a garage sale to occur on or in
connection with his, her, their or its real estate, any person or persons,
firm, group, corporation, organization or other entity, individually termed an
APPLICANT, which holds or allows the garage sale shall first apply for and
obtain a permit from the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Every permit issued by the City Clerk- Treasurer shall only be valid
during the calendar year in which it is issued and shall only be effective in
connection with one garage sale during said calendar year. Thus, if the permit
applicant or any other person or persons, firm, group, corporation,
organization or other entity, including any member of the applicant’s
household, wishes to hold a second garage sale during any calendar year on or
in connection with the applicant’s real estate, then an additional permit must
be applied for and obtained.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.030)
§ 112.04 RESTRICTIONS ON DURATION AND SCHEDULING.
   No garage sale shall exceed three days in duration, and if sales are held at
the same location, then they must be at least seven days apart.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   No garage sale shall commence before 8:00 a.m. on any day during a calendar
year and no garage sale shall continue after 7:00 p.m. on any day during a
calendar year. The setup and cleanup of a garage sale shall be considered part
of the garage sale. Accordingly, the time restrictions contained in this
section shall apply to all setup and cleanup activities associated with a
garage sale.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.040) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   All advertising signs concerning a garage sale shall comply with all current
and effective local ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.050)
§ 112.07 THROUGHWAYS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   All sidewalks, walking paths, walking areas, public streets, private
alleys and driveways, collectively termed THROUGHWAYS, which abut on, are
located adjacent to or are in front of the real estate at which any garage sale
is being conducted shall remain wholly free and uncongested during the garage
sale so as to allow the normal passage of traffic, both pedestrian and
vehicular, during the garage sale.
   (B)   To this end, all garage sale attendees and all household goods,
furniture, equipment, utensils, appliances, tools, personal clothing or
effects, novelty items, glassware, farm products or similar personal property,
as well as all equipment and other property being used in connection with the
garage sale, shall be kept off of all throughways.
   (C)   Furthermore, the vehicles of all garage sale attendees shall be parked
in a manner so as to allow the normal passage of traffic, both pedestrian and
vehicular, during the garage sale.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.060) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person or persons, firm, group, corporation, organization or
other entity which violates any of the terms, restrictions or provisions of §§
112.01 through
112.07 of this chapter may be ticketed by an officer of the City Police
Department, and shall thereafter be required to pay a civil fine in the sum of
$25 for a first offense and $50 for each subsequent offense.
      (2)   The civil fine shall be paid through the City Ordinance Violations
Bureau established pursuant to
Ch. 32 of this code, a copy of which is located at the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer. Accordingly, the procedures, timing and requirements related
to the civil fine or fines and the payment thereof shall be consistent with the
procedures, timing and requirements set forth in §§
32.03 through
32.07 of this code. In particular, the procedures associated with the
prosecution of a violation of §§
112.01 through
112.07 of this chapter shall be consistent with those procedures described in
§§
32.05 and
32.06 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.070)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Required license
   
113.03   License application and fee
   
113.04   Conditions for approval or denial
   
113.05   License suspension or revocation
   
113.06   Time restrictions
   
113.07   No-peddling signs
   
113.08   Required disclosures
   
113.09   False, deceptive or misleading statements
   
113.10   Obstruction of public places prohibited
   
113.11   Tax liability
   
113.12   Exemptions
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who, whether on foot or by vehicle, sells or offers for
sale goods, wares, merchandise or services directly to a consumer for immediate
delivery or performance either by going from house to house for the purpose of
selling the goods or services or by selling the goods or services in any public
place.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who solicits or attempts to solicit, whether from
house to house or upon a public street, an order for goods, subscriptions,
merchandise or services to be delivered or performed at a future date.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, firm or corporation, both as principal or
agent, which engages in a temporary or itinerant merchandising business and, in
the course of the business, hires, leases or occupies any building or structure
whatsoever. Temporary association with a local merchant, dealer or trader or
conduct of the transient business in connection with, as part of or in the name
of any local merchant, dealer or trader shall not exempt any person, firm or
corporation from being considered a TRANSIENT MERCHANT. This section shall not
be construed to include persons who conduct home garage sales.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.010)
§ 113.02 REQUIRED LICENSE.
   No person shall be engaged as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant
within the city limits without first obtaining a license pursuant to this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.020) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 LICENSE APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   An application for any license required by this chapter shall be made
in writing on forms furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer. No person shall make a
known misrepresentation or false statement on an application.
   (B)   The application shall be filed with the Clerk- Treasurer and shall
include:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name and address, the address of his or her
local business establishment and the exact nature of his or her business;
      (2)   The name or title of the proposed business, profession or
occupation;
      (3)   If the applicant is not the owner of the place in which the
business is to be conducted, the name and address of the owner;
      (4)   If the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other
association, the names and addresses of all partners or principal officers;
      (5)   If the applicant is acting as an agent or employee, the name and
address of the principal or employer; and
      (6)   The attachment of a receipt from the Clerk-Treasurer showing
payment of the license fee.
   (C)   The application must be made in writing at least two days before the
applicant shall be authorized to begin the business.
   (D)   The application shall be accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of
$500, executed by the applicant with a surety bond on condition that all
conditions, wares, merchandise or articles sold by the applicant will be
represented by him or her and that he or she will refund the purchase price of
any merchandise sold. Any person aggrieved by the action on the bond for the
recovery of money, damages or both. In the event that a cash bond is deposited
with the Clerk-Treasurer, the same shall be retained for 90 days after the
application for any license.
   (E)   Upon the filing of the application and bond and the approval of the
bond by the Clerk-Treasurer, with the applicant to begin business not less than
two days after the date of filing the application and bond, the following
license fees are hereby reestablished:
      (1)   For one day: $15;
      (2)   For one week: $50; and
      (3)   For one month: $200.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.040) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall forward it to the Police Chief, who shall conduct an investigation
concerning the truth of the facts stated in the application, the character of
the applicant and the condition of the premises upon which the proposed
licensed activity is to take place.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.050)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall approve the application for a license unless
he or she finds that:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime if the crime is
substantially related to the qualifications, functions or duties of the
business, profession or occupation for which the license is to be issued;
      (2)   The applicant has committed any act involving dishonesty, fraud or
deceit with the intent to substantially benefit himself, herself or another or
to substantially injure another;
      (3)   The applicant knowingly made a false statement of facts required to
be revealed in the application for the license or in any amendment or report to
be made thereunder; or
      (4)   Issuance of the license would be inconsistent with public health,
safety or general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.060)
§ 113.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the
Mayor pursuant to the notice and hearing procedures set forth in I.C. 36-4-5-5.
   (B)   A license shall be revoked or suspended if there is a finding that the
person complained of has:
      (1)   Willfully violated a term or condition of his or her license;
      (2)   Willfully done or permitted to be done an act in violation of a
statute or city ordinance related to the business, profession or occupation; or
      (3)   Conducted the licensed business, profession or occupation in a
manner so as to constitute a threat to the public health, safety or general
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.130)
§ 113.06 TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to peddle or solicit before the hour of 9:00
a.m. or after the hour of 6:00 p.m., local time, on any day without the
specific prior consent of the prospective buyer.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.100) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 NO-PEDDLING SIGNS.
   Any peddling or soliciting is unlawful at any residence, dwelling or
apartment at which a sign bearing the words “No Peddlers or Solicitors,” or
words of similar import indicating that peddlers or solicitors are not wanted
on the premises, is painted, affixed or otherwise exposed to public view,
provided that this section shall not apply to any peddler or solicitor who
rings the bell, knocks on the door or otherwise attempts to gain admittance to
a residence, dwelling or apartment at the invitation or with the consent of the
occupant thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.120) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 REQUIRED DISCLOSURES.
   (A)   Each person engaged in peddling or soliciting for the sale of goods or
services at the residence of a prospective buyer shall disclose his or her name
and the company or product that he or she represents, and shall immediately
leave the premises if requested to do so.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to misrepresent the
purpose of his or her call or to use any plan, scheme or rule which
misrepresents the purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.080) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 FALSE, DECEPTIVE OR MISLEADING STATEMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or transient merchant to make or
cause to be made, whether directly or indirectly, any assertion, representation
or statement of fact which is untrue, deceptive or misleading for the purpose
of selling or producing an order for the sale of any goods, wares, merchandise
or services.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.090) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, whether selling or offering for sale any
article or service by peddling or soliciting in any place, to obstruct or cause
to be obstructed the passage of any sidewalk, street, avenue, alley or any
other public place by causing people to congregate at or near the place where
any article or service is being sold or offered for sale.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.110) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 TAX LIABILITY.
   Every person who is a transient merchant, as defined by I.C. 25-37-1-2, is
liable for a tax of 4% of his or her gross income from his or her business
within the city during the term of his or her license.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.070)
§ 113.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any armed forces veteran, as defined by I.C. 25-25-2-1, shall, upon
proof of possessing the license described in I.C. 25-25-2-1, be permitted to
vend, hawk and peddle goods, wares, fruits and merchandise within the city and
is exempt from the requirements of the city license, license fee or tax for
doing so, provided, however, that the armed forces veteran shall be subject to
all other regulatory provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants engaged in
interstate commerce shall be exempt from any license fee or tax in obtaining a
license. Any person claiming this exemption shall file a verified statement
disclosing:
         (a)   The interstate nature of the business;
         (b)   The name and location of the company or firm for which orders
are to be solicited or secured;
         (c)   The name and address of the nearest local or state manager, if
any;
         (d)   The kinds of goods or merchandise to be delivered;
         (e)   The place of shipment and method of delivery;
         (f)   Any other facts necessary to establish the claim of exemption;
and
         (g)   A copy of the other blank contract or other paper used by the
applicant to the statement.
      (2)   If it appears to the Clerk-Treasurer that the applicant is entitled
to an exemption, then the requirement of a license fee shall be waived.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.030)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation which violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be assessed a civil penalty as set forth in §§
32.03 through
32.07 of this code. Each day during which the person, firm or corporation
engages in the business of itinerant merchant or solicitor in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.140)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PEOPLE
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALITY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   City-owned property
   
130.02   Littering
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CITY-OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      FIREARM. Any weapon, gun, rifle, pistol, shotgun or any other contrivance
which expels a missile or projectile at a velocity sufficient to make an
indentation upon a one-sixteenth-inch piece of cardboard at a distance of six
inches or less or cause any damage or intrusion upon the integrity of the piece
of cardboard which exceeds a minor indentation at that distance.
      MOTORIZED VEHICLE. Any vehicle having one, two, three, four or more
wheels which is driven by motor power rather than by human power or animal
power.
      ROADWAYS UPON CITY-OWNED PROPERTY. Those roadways which have been
obviously delineated, marked or utilized for motorized travel to the discerning
eye of any reasonable individual. Whenever it is necessary to implement this
definition, it shall be implemented with the most conservative interpretation,
and the burden of proof shall be upon the defendant or the accused violator to
show that the traveled route is authorized and consistently used as a roadway
for motorized vehicular traffic. The inability to so prove shall result in
prima facie evidence of guilt if a motorized vehicle is operated in any area
otherwise not supposed to be so used.
(Prior Code, § 8.38.010)
   (B)   Controls and restrictions. All of the following acts are hereby
declared unlawful and violations when committed or caused to be committed by
any individual or any groups of individuals within the boundaries or upon the
lands of any property of the city, city parks, City Water Utility or City
Wastewater Utility:
      (1)   Driving or operating any motorized vehicle other than upon
designated roadways provided for such use;
      (2)   Operating off-road vehicles in any city park or upon any city
property other than upon established roadways;
      (3)   Discharging a firearm, BB gun, bow and arrow, crossbow or any other
potentially dangerous and lethal weapon or contrivance;
      (4)   Hunting, trapping or fishing in, or seizing, the lands and
waterways under the control and jurisdiction of the city;
      (5)   Trespassing without authorization from the city agency of proper
jurisdiction upon city grounds or properties, with the office of the Mayor
being authorized to give permission to enter upon city grounds generally with
the consent of the Board of Public Works and Safety and the Wastewater Utility,
Parks Board and Water Utility, and with executive officers being duly
authorized to give permission for trespass or entering upon lands or properties
under the jurisdiction of those respective agencies;
      (6)   Destroying city-owned property, vandalizing city-owned property,
cutting or removing fallen timber, limbs or firewood or in any other way
disturbing the flora, fauna or human-made constructed objects upon city-owned
property; and
      (7)   Causing the commission of or committing upon city-owned property
any other act which by its commission would violate state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 8.38.020)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 LITTERING.
   (A)   Prohibited actions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, group,
corporation, organization or other entity, whether in person or by agent,
employee or servant, to cast, throw, sweep, sift or deposit in any manner any
kind of trash, rubbish, waste, refuse or litter, whether the same be liquid or
solid, in or upon any public way, public place or private lot, whether or not
said private lot is owned by the person, firm or corporation, within the city
or in any public water, drain, sewer or receiving basin within the jurisdiction
of the city.
      (2)   It also shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, group,
corporation, organization or other entity, whether directly or indirectly, to
cast, throw, sweep, sift or deposit any of the aforementioned items anywhere
within the jurisdiction of the city in such a manner that the items may be
carried or deposited in whole or in part into any of the aforementioned places
by action of the sun, wind, rain or snow.
      (3)   However, this division (A) shall not apply to:
         (a)   The deposit of materials under a permit authorized by any other
ordinance of the city;
         (b)   Goods, wares or merchandise temporarily deposited upon any
public way or other public place in the necessary course of trade and removed
therefrom within two hours after being so deposited; or
         (c)   Articles or things deposited in or conducted into the city sewer
system through lawful drains in accordance with other ordinances, if any, of
the city related thereto.
(Prior Code, § 9.24.010)
   (B)   Vehicle-related prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, group,
corporation, organization or other entity, whether in person or by agent,
employee or servant, to use any vehicle to haul any kind of dirt, rubbish,
waste, articles, refuse, trash or litter, whether liquid or solid, unless the
vehicle is covered or situated at all times so as to prevent any part of its
load from spilling or the dropping of any items or materials from the vehicle
while said vehicle is in motion on any street, alley or public way in the city.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, this division (B) shall not apply
when a vehicle is actually being loaded or unloaded; however, such loading and
unloading shall only occur when the vehicle is not moving.
      (3)   Furthermore, the requirements contained in this division (B) shall
not apply to vehicles carrying yard or grass clippings, brush cuttings, tree
trimmings, branches, logs and similar organic yard waste materials, provided
that appropriate steps have been taken to attempt to securely lash or fasten
the materials to the vehicle to prevent spilling or dropping the same from the
vehicle while the vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 9.24.020)
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-1-2009) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   City property. Any person or group of persons who shall commit a
violation of any provision of §
130.01 of this chapter and the city code shall be assessed for each violation a
civil penalty as set forth in §
32.07 of this code. Each and every incident or commission by an individual or
group of individuals, or the causing of the commission, shall constitute an
individual violation.
(Prior Code, § 8.38.030)
   (C)   Littering.
      (1)   Any person or persons, firm, group, corporation, organization or
other entity which violates any of the terms, restrictions or provisions of §
130.02 of this chapter may be ticketed by an officer of the City Police
Department, and shall thereafter be required to pay a civil fine in the sum of
$250 for each violation. A separate violation shall be deemed to be committed
on each day during or on which a violation of §
130.02 of this chapter occurs or continues.
      (2)   The civil fine shall be paid through the City Ordinance Violations
Bureau established pursuant to Ch. 32 of this code, a copy of which is located
at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. Accordingly, the procedures, timing
and requirements related to the civil fine or fines and the payment thereof
shall be consistent with the procedures, timing and requirements set forth in
Ch. 32. In particular, the procedures associated with the prosecution of
violations of §
130.02 of this chapter shall be consistent with those procedures described in
§§
32.05 and
32.06 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9.24.030)
(Ord. 1191, passed 12-16-1987; Ord. 146, passed 4-20-2005; Ord. 2006-02, passed
6-5-2006; Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-1-2009)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PEOPLE
Section
Curfew for Minors
   
131.01   Imposed curfew
Sexual Offender Regulations
   
131.15   Purpose
   
131.16   Definitions
   
131.17   Prohibitions
   
131.18   Evidentiary matters
   
131.19   Exceptions to prohibitions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 131.01 IMPOSED CURFEW.
   No person under 16 years of age shall remain, loiter or wander on or about
the public streets, sidewalks, alleys or public parks within the city between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.010) (Ord. 439, passed - -; Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1943)
Penalty, see §
131.99
SEXUAL OFFENDER REGULATIONS
§ 131.15 PURPOSE.
   The Common Council of the city finds that the sex offenders who are required
to register as sexual offenders under I.C. 35-42-4 present an extreme threat to
the health, safety and welfare of children. It is the intent of this subchapter
to serve the city’s compelling interest to promote, protect and improve the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city by creating areas around
locations where children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers wherein
certain registered sex offenders and sexual offenders are prohibited from
establishing temporary or permanent residency.
(Prior Code, § 8.50.010) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-4-2008)
§ 131.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CHILD. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. As defined in the County Zoning Ordinance.
   CHILD CARE INSTITUTION. As defined in the County Zoning Ordinance.
   CHILD SAFETY ZONE. Includes public parks, private and public schools, public
libraries, amusement arcades, video arcades, indoor and outdoor amusement
centers, amusement parks, public or commercial and semi-private swimming pools,
child care facilities, child care institutions, public or private athletic
complexes, crisis centers or shelters, skate parks or rinks, public or private
youth centers, movie theaters, bowling alleys, scouting facilities and the
offices of protective services.
   PARK or PLAYGROUND. One of the following:
      (1)   Any land, including improvements to the land, which is
administered, operated or managed by the city for the use of the general public
as a recreational area; or
      (2)   City recreational areas including, but not limited to, conservation
areas, jogging trails, bicycle trails, recreational trails, recreational
centers, water parks, swimming pools, soccer fields, baseball or softball
fields, football fields or basketball courts.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides under I.C. 11-8-8 and
I.C. 35-42-4.
   PLACES WHERE CHILDREN REGULARLY CONGREGATE. Same as CHILD SAFETY ZONE.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, including, but not limited to, streets, shopping centers,
parking lots, transportation centers, restaurants, shops and similar areas
which are open to the use of the public.
   SCHOOL. A private or public preschool, private or public elementary school
or private or public secondary school.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of or placed on deferred
adjudication for a sexual offense involving a person under 18 years of age for
which the individual is required to register as a sex offender under I.C. 35-
42-4 and I.C. 11-8-8.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges or resides as
defined by I.C. 11-8-8 and I.C. 35-42-4.
(Prior Code, § 8.50.020) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-4-2008; Ord. 2017-04, passed
3-6-2017)
§ 131.17 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It is an offense for a sex offender to establish a permanent residence
or temporary residence within 1,000 feet of the real property comprising a
school, child care facility, child care institution, park, playground or other
place where children regularly congregate.
   (B)   It is an offense for a sex offender to knowingly enter a child safety
zone.
   (C)   Between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. on each October 30 and
31, or on any other date set by the city for trick-or-treating, a sex offender
shall not leave an exterior porch light on or otherwise invite trick-or-
treaters to solicit the premises.
(Prior Code, § 8.50.030) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-4-2008; Ord. 2017-04, passed
3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.18 EVIDENTIARY MATTERS.
   (A)   If a sex offender who is prohibited from being in a child safety zone
is found in a child safety zone by a police officer, then the sex offender is
subject to punishment in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie evidence that this section applies to a person
if that person’s record appears in/on the database and the database indicates
that the victim was less than 18 years of age.
   (C)   The distance of 300 feet from a child safety zone shall be measured on
a straight line from the closest boundary of the child safety zone.
   (D)   (1)   The distance of 1,000 feet from a place where children
congregate shall be measured on a straight line from the closest boundary line
of the sex offender’s residence to the closest boundary line of the school,
child care facility, child care institution, park, playground or other place
where children regularly congregate.
      (2)   In the case of multiple residences on one property, measure from
the nearest property line of the residences to the nearest property line of the
school, child care facility, child care institution, park, playground or other
places where children regularly congregate.
   (E)   In the case of a dispute over measured distances, it shall be
incumbent upon the person or persons challenging the measurement to prove
otherwise.
   (F)   A map depicting the prohibited areas shall be created by the city and
maintained by the City Police Department. The city shall review the map
annually for changes. The map will be available to the public at the City
Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 8.50.040) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-4-2008)
§ 131.19 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The person required to register in/on the database established the
permanent residence or temporary residence prior to the date of the adoption of
this subchapter and residency has been consistently maintained, and the person
has complied with all of the sex offender registration laws of the state;
   (B)   The place where children regularly congregate, as specified herein,
which is within 1,000 feet of the permanent or temporary residence of the
person required to register in/on the database was opened after the person
established the permanent or temporary residence and complied with all sex
offender laws of the state;
   (C)   The information in/on the database is incorrect, and if corrected,
this subchapter would not apply to the person who was erroneously listed in/on
the database;
   (D)   The person required to register in/on the database was a minor when he
or she committed the offense requiring the registration and was not convicted
as an adult;
   (E)   The person required to register is required to serve a sentence at a
jail, prison, juvenile facility or other correctional institution located
within 1,000 feet of the real property comprising a school, child care
facility, child care institution, park, playground or other place where
children regularly congregate;
   (F)   The person required to register is under 18 years of age or a ward
under a guardianship and resides with a parent or guardian;
   (G)   The person required to register has or had been exempted by a court
order from registration as a sex offender under I.C. 35-42-4 and I.C. 11-8-8;
   (H)   The person required to register has or had the offense for which the
sex offender registration was required reversed on appeal or pardoned;
   (I)   The person’s duty to register in/on the database has expired; and
   (J)   Nothing in this provision shall require any person to sell or
otherwise dispose of any real estate or home acquired or owned prior to the
conviction of the person as a sex offender.
(Prior Code, § 8.50.050) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-4-2008)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Curfew. Any person violating the provisions of §
131.01 of this chapter shall be fined in any sum not less than $1 nor more than
$5 for each and every offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.040)
   (C)   Sexual offenders. Any person, firm, corporation, agent or employee
thereof who violates any of the provisions of §§
131.15 through
131.19 of this chapter shall be fined $200 or an amount not to exceed the
maximum amount allowed by law. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 8.50.060)
(Ord. 88, passed 10-5-1900; Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-4-2008)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
   
132.01   Discharge of firearms
   
132.02   Projectiles
   
132.03   Games and activities utilizing balls
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Discharge prohibited. Within the corporate limits of the city, it
shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge, or to permit or allow to
be fired or discharged, any firearm, gun, pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun, BB
gun, gas gun, dart gun, crossbow, blowgun, slingshot, cannon or any other
weapon or device designed to propel a projectile which might cause injury to
the person, to another person or to an animal, or which might cause damage to
property.
(Prior Code, § 8.40.010)
   (B)   Allowing discharge prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the parent,
guardian or other adult person having care or custody of a minor under the age
of 18 years to knowingly permit the minor to violate division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 8.40.020)
   (C)   Discharge from real property or vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any
person to knowingly permit violations of divisions (A) or (B) above to occur on
real property owned or otherwise legally controlled by the person, or to permit
violations of divisions (A) or (B) above to be committed from any vehicle owned
or driven by the person.
(Prior Code, § 8.40.030)
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Persons acting for any governmental unit in pursuance of their
duties and in compliance with the law;
      (2)   Any person in defense of his or her life or the life of another
person;
      (3)   Any person attacked by a vicious animal;
      (4)   Any sanctioned or sponsored training or shooting activity which is
held in a proper location and approved by the Police Chief; or
      (5)   Bow and arrow practice on private property which is related to any
sanctioned or sponsored training or shooting activity held in a proper location
and approved by the Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 8.40.040)
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 PROJECTILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or cast any stone or other
missile upon or at any building, tree or other public or private property or
across or along any street, sidewalk, avenue, alley, lane or public place
within the city:
   (A)   With the hands; or
   (B)   From any sling, flipper or other instrument or device.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.020) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 GAMES AND ACTIVITIES UTILIZING BALLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play baseball or any other game of
ball or to throw or toss any ball in, upon or along any street, sidewalk, alley
or public place in the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Firearms. Any person convicted of violating §
132.01 of this chapter shall be assessed a civil penalty as set forth in §
32.07 of this code for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 8.40.050)
   (C)   Projectiles and balls. Any person violating the provisions of §§
132.02 or
132.03 of this chapter shall be fined in any sum not less than $1 nor more than
$10.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.030)
(Ord. 44, passed 10-18-1895; Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-5-2006)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Alcoholic beverages
   
133.02   Obscene material
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Any person carrying, possessing, keeping or consuming any alcoholic beverage
in any public park shall be assessed a civil penalty.
(Prior Code, § 9.20.010) (Ord. 828, passed 6-5-1972) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 OBSCENE MATERIAL.
   Within the corporate limits of the city, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to sell, distribute, lend, give away, exhibit or
have in possession for any such purposes any obscene, lewd or immoral book,
pamphlet, paper, magazine, writing, advertisement, circular or newspaper, or to
offer to sell, distribute, lend, give away, exhibit or have in possession for
any such purposes any written or printed matter which is barred from the use of
or transmission through the United States mail service under any regulation of
the U.S. postal authorities.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.010) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Alcohol. Any person carrying, possessing, keeping or consuming any
alcoholic beverage in any public park shall be assessed a civil penalty as set
forth in §
32.07 of this code for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 9.20.020)
   (C)   Obscene material. Any person, firm or corporation violating any
provision of §
133.02 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 nor
more than $50, to which may be added imprisonment in the county jail not to
exceed 30 days for any person. Each transaction shall be and constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.020)
(Ord. 290, passed 11-18-1935; Ord. 828, passed 6-5-1972; Ord. 2006-02, passed
6-5-2006)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   LAND USE CONTROLS
      
151.   CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING CODE
      
152.   MINIMUM BUILDING AND SAFETY STANDARDS
      
153.   FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
      
154.   STORM WATER
      
155.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
      
156.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
157.   URBAN FOREST GREENSCAPE
CHAPTER 150: LAND USE CONTROLS
Section
   
150.01   Zoning Code and Subdivision Code
   
150.02   Comprehensive Plan
   
150.03   Infrastructure improvement regulations
§ 150.01 ZONING CODE AND SUBDIVISION CODE.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance for the city, as drafted by the
County Planning and Zoning Commission, is hereby adopted by reference as if
fully set out herein.
   (B)   The Subdivision Control Ordinance for the city is hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set out herein.
   (C)   All ordinances amending the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance and the
Subdivision Control Ordinance are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
out herein.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.010) (Ord. 1419, passed - -; Ord. 907, passed 2-3-1975;
Ord. 908, passed 2-3-1975; Ord. 1215, passed 12-5-1988; Ord. 1218, passed 12-5-
1988; Ord. 1992-1353, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. 2004-15, passed 1-3-2005; Ord.
2005-06, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2005-08, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 150.02 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The County Comprehensive Plan and its amendments are hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set out herein.
(Res. 2017-20, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 150.03 INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   This section details the specific administrative and design
criteria for infrastructure improvements such as sanitary sewer, water, road
and storm drainage systems and the like within the city. The requirements set
forth herein are applicable regardless of the final ownership disposition of
the system in question.
      (2)   Additional requirements may be imposed from time to time by the
city as conditions warrant, and it is the responsibility of the applicant to
insure that he or she has the current standards.
      (3)   All criteria referenced herein relates to the city’s administrative
technical design and installation elements only, and compliance herewith does
not imply approval by any other body or under any policy, ordinance or
regulation which may have authority or jurisdiction over the design and
installation of said infrastructure within the city.
   (B)   Plans, specifications and calculations.
      (1)   The submittal of specific plans and specifications is required by
the city. Under no circumstances will any permits be issued or work be
authorized until two copies of preliminary plans are on file with the city and
approved by the appropriate department head or heads.
      (2)   Once the city has completed its review of all items submitted in
accordance with the above- referenced plans and specifications, one set of all
items, such as plans, specifications, calculations, engineer’s estimate and the
like, will be returned to the applicant with comments provided by the city for
a second review. Under no circumstances will any permits be issued, inspections
be scheduled or work be authorized until approved plans are on file with the
city.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Any and all easements required for the proposed construction shall
be so noted on the plans. If required by any department head or the Board of
Works and Safety, two copies of the draft easement plan and legal description,
as prepared by a surveyor licensed to practice within the state, shall be
provided to the city for review along with the required plans and other
supporting documents. Acceptance of all easements is subject to Common Council
approval and will be placed on the agenda for a regularly-scheduled Council
meeting for action after review and recommendation by city staff or the Board
of Public Works and Safety.
      (2)   All such easements must be approved by the city and recorded in the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer prior to the issuance of any extension
permits. It should be noted that all utilities shall be designed so that as
much of the system as practical shall be installed within existing public
rights-of-way.
   (D)   Permits. The applicant shall secure all necessary federal, state and
local permits as may be appropriate, and shall submit one copy of each to the
city along with the other required submittals. The city reserves the right to
require that all other permits be secured before any city permits are issued.
   (E)   City operation and maintenance; acceptance. The city will accept new
infrastructure components for operation and maintenance, provided that:
      (1)   The infrastructure, such as sanitary sewer, water, road and storm
drainage systems and the like, was installed consistent with the city’s
policies, ordinances and regulations governing the same;
      (2)   The city has inspected all work and witnessed all tests, with
written documentation of the same on file;
      (3)   All of the provisions hereunder have been met and a letter of
assignment has been provided to the city from the applicant transferring all
titles and rights to the project to the city; and
      (4)   The Common Council has approved and accepted.
(Res. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Scope
   
151.02   Authority
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Minimum construction standards
Building Permits and Certificates
   
151.15   Required permits
   
151.16   Permit application
   
151.17   Permit issuance
   
151.18   Withholding permit issuance
   
151.19   Permit revocation
   
151.20   Certificate of occupancy
Policies and Procedures
   
151.35   Site inspections and investigations
   
151.36   Stop-work orders
   
151.37   Right to appeal
Regulations by Special Circumstance
   
151.50   Lifting devices in private residences
   
151.51   Moving buildings or houses
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and the Building Code.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, the Building Code shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile home structures certified under I.C.
22-15-4; however, the provisions of the Building Code and the rules promulgated
by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any
construction related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure
not certified under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, the Building Code is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels or
regulated lifting devices.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.020) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003)
§ 151.02 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is or Building Commissioners are hereby authorized
and directed to administer and enforce the following:
   (A)   All provisions of the Building Code;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.030) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. An individual or individuals employed by the city and
authorized to represent the city in enforcement of the Building Code and act as
BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Any part of the following:
      (1)   A building or structure which is intended to be or is occupied or
is otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
         (a)   The public;
         (b)   Three or more tenants;
         (c)   One or more persons who act as the employee of another; this
does not include a Class 2 structure or a vehicular bridge but does include a
swimming pool pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 22-12-1-24; and
         (d)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in this division (1) above,
except for buildings or structures described in divisions (2) and (3) below.
      (2)   The Code applies to a structure which contains three or more
condominium units, as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9, or other units which:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   The Code does not include a building or structure which:
         (a)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or fewer consecutive months per calendar year; or
         (b)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located.
(I.C. 22-12-1-4)
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Any part of the following, including a swimming pool, but
not including a vehicular bridge:
      (1)   A building or structure which is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units, unless any part of the building
or structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure; and
      (2)   An outbuilding for a structure described heretofore herein, such as
a garage, barn or family swimming pool, unless any part of the outbuilding is
regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
(I.C. 22-12-1-5)
   CONSTRUCTION. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use on another site;
      (2)   The erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure at the site where it will
be used;
      (3)   The installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating,
air conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection,
emergency communication or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1
or Class 2 structure at the site where it will be used;
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure; or
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except for a mobile structure.
(I.C. 22-12-1-7)
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Any part of a building or other structure
which is in a substantial part fabricated in an offsite manufacturing facility
for installation or assembly at the building site as part of a Class 1 or Class
2 structure or another building or structure. However, the term does not
include a mobile structure or a system which is capable of inspection at the
building site.
(I.C. 22-12-1-14)
   MANUFACTURED HOME. The term has the meaning set forth in 42 U.S.C. § 5402 as
it existed on January 1, 1984. This definition is as follows: MANUFACTURED HOME
means a structure transportable in one or more sections which, in the traveling
mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or
when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein,
except that the term shall include any structure which meets all of the
requirements of this definition except for the size requirements of this
definition, and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. § 5402.
(I.C. 22-12-1-16)
   MOBILE STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any part of a fabricated unit which is designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year- round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, Class 2 structure or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components which can be retracted for towing
purposes and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; or
         (b)   Two or more units which are separately towable but designed to
be joined into one
integral unit.
(I.C. 22-12-1-17)
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
unincorporated association or governmental entity.
(I.C. 22-12-1-18)
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Any bridge suspended between two or more parts of a
building, or between two or more buildings, which is neither of the following:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; or
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles.
(I.C. 22-12-1-26)
(Prior Code, § 15.12.010) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003)
§ 151.04 MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the State Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles of 675
I.A.C. are hereby incorporated by reference in this chapter and shall include
any later amendments to those rules:
      (1)   Article 13, Building Codes:
         (a)   State Building Code; and
         (b)   Fire and Building Safety Standards.
      (2)   Article 14, State Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16, State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17, State Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18, State Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19, State Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20, State Swimming Pool Code; and
      (8)   Article 22, State Fire Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the building rules incorporated by reference in division
(A) above are on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office for public inspection as
required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
established in this chapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted
by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.410) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003)
BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES
§ 151.15 REQUIRED PERMITS.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
or permits obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to the commencement of
construction.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.100) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit and
complete an application to the Building Commissioner, which application shall
be submitted on a form prepared by the Building Commissioner and contain the
following:
      (1)   Information which the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications, drawn to scale, which indicate in a precise manner the nature
and location of all work to be done;
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to the streets,
curbs and sidewalks;
      (4)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
which has been issued by the State Building Commissioner and State Fire
Marshal, pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3;
      (5)   Any additional information which the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws; and
      (6)   The fee established by the legislative body, the Common Council.
   (B)   An application for a building permit shall be made by the person
entitled to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of said person. The
Building Commissioner may require that the employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.110) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003)
§ 151.17 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
said person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee,
provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable building
laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.120) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003)
§ 151.18 WITHHOLDING PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a person who is either an applicant for a building permit or
an obtainer of a building permit owes fees to the Building Commissioner, the
Building Commissioner may withhold the issuance of subsequently-requested
permits until the time the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure which
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance related to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until the time the property is brought into conformance with applicable
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.310) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable.
   (A)   The application, supporting documents or plans contain a false
statement or misrepresentation of material facts.
   (B)   The application, supporting documents or plans reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures.
   (C)   There is failure to comply with the Building Code.
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance related to land use.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.320) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be
issued unless the building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy any building or structure unless a
full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.130) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003) Penalty, see §
151.99
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 151.35 SITE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Inspections by Building Commissioner.
      (1)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner may, at any reasonable time, go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this chapter and the Building Code or the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission is located for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating the structure. The inspection and investigation may be made
before or after construction of the project is completed for the purpose of
determining whether the structure meets building standards and procedures and
ascertaining whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in
a manner consistent with this chapter and the Building Code and with the rules
of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.210)
   (B)   Inspections by Fire Department.
      (1)   The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work
cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance
with fire safety laws.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.220)
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003)
§ 151.36 STOP-WORK ORDERS.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order, an order
requiring suspension of the pertinent construction, in accordance with this
section.
   (B)   A stop-work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   The owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in the Building Code or any
state law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of the Building Code or in a
manner whereby if construction is allowed to proceed, then there is a
reasonable probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the
violation; or
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.330) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.37 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter shall have
the right to petition for review of any order of the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   A person shall file a petition using either, or both, of the following
procedures.
      (1)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
         (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under the Building Code
may submit a petition for review to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
         (b)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order which covers a
subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C. 22-15, a fire
safety rule or a building rule.
         (c)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders which concern a Class 2 structure within 30 days after issuance of the
order if the person aggrieved by the order petitions for review under I.C. 4-
21.5-3-7.
         (d)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
all other orders issued under this chapter which cover a subject governed by
I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C. 22-15, a fire safety rule or a
building rule.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running of the time period in which a
person must petition a court for judicial review under any statute.
      (2)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court.
         (a)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the city has established that a
person aggrieved by an order may petition first for a hearing before the
Director of Redevelopment and Environmental Affairs, and upon failing to get
satisfaction or being not in agreement with the finding by the Director, to the
Board of Public Works and Safety, which shall hold a hearing on the merits of
the appeal at its next regular meeting following the finding of the Director
which was not accepted by the aggrieved party.
         (b)   The administrative remedy existing appeal for judicial review is
not allowed.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.360) (Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003)
REGULATIONS BY SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCE
§ 151.50 LIFTING DEVICES IN PRIVATE RESIDENCES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts which are located within a private residence are not
regulated lifting devices.
   (B)   Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting devices
located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators, published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016;
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators and Escalators,
ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, published by
the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New
York 10016;
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1 a-
2001, addenda to ASME 18.1-1999, Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016;
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1 a-
2001, addenda to ASME 18.1-1999, Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016; and
      (5)   Section 7, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1 a-
2001, addenda to ASME 18.1-1999, Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (C)   Two copies of the lifting device standards in division (B) above
herein incorporated by reference are on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer for public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.510) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.51 MOVING BUILDINGS OR HOUSES.
   (A)   Restriction. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or
corporation to move or cause to be moved any house, barn, building or other
structure over or upon any street or streets within the city unless and until a
permit to do so shall first have been issued as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.010)
   (B)   Application to move a building.
      (1)   Any person, persons, firm or corporation desiring to move any
house, barn, building or other structure over or upon any street or streets in
the city shall make an application in writing to the Board of Public Works and
Safety for a permit to do so.
      (2)   The application shall state the origin and termination of the
proposed moving and the street or streets over which it is proposed to do the
moving, and shall state the height, width, length and approximate weight of the
house, barn, building or other structure.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.020)
   (C)   Permit issuance.
      (1)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall, as soon as practicable
thereafter, consider the application for permit and grant or deny the same. In
the event the Board grants the application, the Board shall order the City
Clerk-Treasurer to issue a permit authorizing the moving, but only over and
upon the street or streets within the city as the Board shall specifically
authorize in the permit.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued by the Board unless and until the
applicant shall first have posted a bond in a penal sum of not less than
$1,000, either in cash or with sureties, to be approved by the Board. The bond
shall be payable unto the city and shall guarantee that the applicant will
thereby indemnify the city and all other persons, firms or corporations from
any and all loss or liability resulting from or rising out of the performance
of the moving, and specifically further conditioned for the repair of all
damages to any street or streets resulting from the moving, and conditioned
further to pay for all damages to any tree or trees which may be injured or
damaged by the moving.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued except after payment by the applicant
unto the City Clerk- Treasurer of a permit of $25 for each day or fraction
thereof during which the moving shall continue.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.030)
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the moving of any
building or structure moved or about to be moved upon any vehicle licensed by
the state, and which building or structure, when loaded on the vehicle, shall
not exceed 14 feet in height nor 14 feet in width.
      (2)   Likewise, the provisions of this section shall not apply to any
person, persons, firm or corporation moving a house, barn, building or other
structure over or upon any state highway when special permission to do so has
previously been issued by the State Highway Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.040)
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Civil action. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the city may initiate a civil
action in a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from
violating a provision of the Building Code, except as addressed in division (D)
below.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.340)
   (C)   Monetary penalty. Any person violating any provision of the Building
Code, except as addressed in division (D) below, may be subject to a fine in
any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no
way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in the Building
Code. Penalties may be assessed by the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.350)
   (D)   Moving buildings or houses. Any person, persons, firm or corporation
which shall violate any provision of §
151.51 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction,
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $100. Each and every day upon which any
person, persons, firm or corporation shall violate any provision of §
151.51 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.050)
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 3-3-2003)
CHAPTER 152: MINIMUM BUILDING AND PROPERTY STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Adoption of State Code
   
152.02   Scope
   
152.03   Purpose
   
152.04   Definitions
Minimum Standards
   
152.15   Residential buildings, accessory buildings and garages
   
152.16   Equipment and facilities
   
152.17   Safety and maintenance
   
152.18   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
152.19   Hotel, motel and rooming house operation
   
152.20   Rental property registration
   
152.21   Smoke alarm installation
   
152.22   Bed bug elimination
   
152.23   Vacant building stewardship
Enforcement and Violations
   
152.35   Inspections of rental property
   
152.36   Serving notices of violation
   
152.37   Serving notices of violation on city nonresidents
   
152.38   Placard posting on uninhabitable or dangerous buildings
   
152.39   Agreeing with notice of violation and remedial action
   
152.40   Giving notice of hearings
   
152.41   Hearings
   
152.42   Appeals
   
152.43   Remediation by city; cost assessed as lien
   
152.44   City response in emergency circumstances
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF STATE CODE.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, collectively the “State Code,” hereby are
incorporated herein by reference as the “City of Hartford City Minimum Building
and Property Standards.” All proceedings within the city for the inspection,
repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by the State Code and
by the provisions of this chapter. Unless otherwise expressly set forth herein,
in the event the provisions of this chapter conflict with the State Code, then
the provisions of the State Code shall control.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 152.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   The Common Council finds the structure, equipment, sanitation,
maintenance, use and occupancy of residential properties, dwellings and rooming
houses may cause a hazard to the public health, safety and welfare. These
properties, dwellings and rooming houses may now exist or may exist in the
future. The establishment and enforcement of minimum housing standards is
required to correct and prevent the existence of public health and safety
hazards and is necessary to promote the general welfare of the community.
   (B)   There are hereby established rules and regulations for the repair or
elimination of unfit or unsafe housing conditions in the city, which shall be
known as “The Minimum Housing Code of the City of Hartford City.”
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 152.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum requirements to prevent
the decay and deterioration of places of or intended for human habitation for
the protection of life, limb, health, property, safety and welfare of the
general public.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 152.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, but having
less than two-thirds of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average
grade of adjoining property.
   BOARD. The City Property Standards Board.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground and
having two-thirds of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade
of adjoining ground.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any designated employee of the city whose assigned
duties include the enforcement of this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions which are
used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
sanitation.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials which may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or
trapping or by other recognized and legal pest eliminations.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from handling, preparing,
cooking and consuming food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping or cooking purposes, excluding bathrooms, laundries,
pantries, foyers, hallways, closets and storage spaces.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having
actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OWNER. Any person having a legal or equitable title in a real estate or
premises.
   OWNER’S REPRESENTATIVE. A person hired by an owner to represent or advocate
on the owner’s behalf.
   PERSON.
      (1)   Any entity including any of the following: individual, firm,
corporation, association, partnership or limited liability corporation or
company.
      (2)   References in the masculine gender include the feminine and the
neuter, and the singular includes the plural.
   PEST MANAGEMENT PROFESSIONAL. A person who:
      (1)   Is licensed, registered or certified by the state to perform pest
control services; and
      (2)   Follows National Pest Management Association best practices for the
extermination of insects, rodents, pests and bed bugs.
   RENTAL BUILDING. A building containing one or more rental units.
   RENTAL UNIT. A rented dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling or part of a dwelling containing one or more
rooming units, and in which space is let by the owner or the owner’s
representative to persons who are not a husband, wife, son, daughter, mother,
father, sister or brother of the owner or the owner’s representative.
   ROOMING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit which
is used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH.
      (1)   Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except for garbage.
      (2)   The term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal,
coke and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, leaves, tin cans,
metals, mineral matter, glass, crockery and dust.
   TENANT. Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others occupies a
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit under an oral or written lease or who
holds a legal tenancy.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 152.15 RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND GARAGES.
   No building, accessory building or garage used for residential purposes
shall fail to comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter shall be constructed or installed so that it will
function safely and effectively, and it shall be maintained in satisfactory
working condition.
   (B)   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling and roof shall:
      (1)   Be reasonably weathertight and rodentproof;
      (2)   Be capable of affording privacy; and
      (3)   Be kept in good repair.
   (C)   The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not have defects which
admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness or
deterioration in the walls or interior portions of the building. Roof drainage,
gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free from
obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner which creates a
hazard on the premises of adjacent property that is contrary to city ordinance.
   (D)   Every window, exterior door and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weathertight and rodentproof, and shall be kept in sound, working condition and
good repair. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks and
holes.
   (E)   Every inside and outside stair, every porch and every appurtenance
thereto shall be constructed so as to be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon, and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair. Metal fire escapes shall be maintained in a
rust-free condition.
   (F)   Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened and capable of
supporting normally-imposed loads, and shall be maintained in good condition.
   (G)   All wood and metal surfaces including, but not limited to, window
frames, doors, door frames, cornices, porches and trim shall be maintained in
good condition. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint shall be eliminated and the
surfaces repainted.
   (H)   All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra- cotta trim, wall facings
and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good repair, with proper
anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (I)   All canopies, metal awnings, fire escapes, exhaust ducts and similar
overhanging extensions shall be maintained in good repair and be properly
anchored so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed
surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements against decay or
rust by periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or a
similar surface treatment.
   (J)   Any pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not discharge
gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous or
particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property, or that of another tenant.
   (K)   All premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the erosion of
soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water either thereon or within
any structure located thereon.
   (L)   (1)   All walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces and similar
areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair and maintained free from
hazardous conditions.
      (2)   All sidewalks shall fully comply with the state standards, I.C. 36-
9-36-17, § 4:19, Building codes, Legal Almanac: The Americans With Disabilities
Act, § 4:19.
      (3)   An occupant shall ensure that the sidewalk remains clear of any
encumbrances, such as obstacles, debris, ice, snow and the like.
   (M)   Any portion, member or appurtenance of a building shall not be likely
to fail or become detached, dislodged or collapse, thereby injuring persons or
damaging property.
   (N)   A building or structure shall not be unsafe for the purpose for which
it is being used.
   (O)   A building or structure shall not be in such a condition that it is
likely to partially or completely collapse due to:
      (1)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
      (2)   Faulty construction; or
      (3)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building, or the deterioration,
decay or inadequacy of its foundation.
   (P)   Exterior walls or other vertical structural members shall not list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base.
   (Q)   A building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shall not show
33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, nor
50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, coverings or
enclosing or outside walls.
   (R)   A building or structure shall not have less than 66% of the strength,
fire-resisting qualities or characteristics or weather-resisting qualities or
characteristics from when it was originally contracted.
   (S)   A building shall not be so damaged by fire, earthquake, flood or any
other cause that the structural strength and stability is materially less than
it was before the catastrophe.
   (T)   A building or structure shall not be so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood that it has become so dilapidated and deteriorated as it
becomes freely assessable to persons.
   (U)   A building or structure shall not become a fire hazard because of
obsolescence, dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, lack of sufficient
fire-resistive construction, electrical wiring, gas connection or heating
apparatus.
   (V)   A portion of a building or structure shall not remain on the real
estate more than three months after its demolition or destruction.
   (W)   (1)   Regarding the exterior use or storage of indoor furniture and
appliances, it shall be prohibited to store exterior to a structure materials
or objects which are customarily utilized or intended to be utilized by the
manufacturer in the interior of a structure. Such materials and objects
include, but are not limited to, appliances, couches, sofas, furniture,
mattresses, box springs, storage bins and boxes.
      (2)   A three-day exemption from division (W)(1) above is granted for
materials or objects which are temporarily placed for disposal or removal from
the property. If materials or objects placed for disposal have been tagged with
an approved prepaid tag or sticker from the City Utilities Office, then the
exemption may extend until the next scheduled trash collection day.
      (3)   The materials or objects utilized during the construction of an
active construction or improvement project are exempt from division (W)(1)
above for a period not to exceed 14 calendar days.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living therein which does not
comply with the following.
   (A)   Plumbing.
      (1)   Each occupied dwelling unit shall be connected to city utilities
for water service and sewage disposal pursuant to the rules and regulations of
the city utilities within 30 days of occupancy.
      (2)   Each occupied dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen
sink, lavatory, tub or shower, water closet and an adequate supply of both cold
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through the city utilities.
      (3)   The water closet and tub or shower shall be located in a room
affording privacy to the user.
      (4)   Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with water-heating facilities
which are properly installed and maintained in good and safe working order.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a temperature of 65ºF at a point three feet
above the floor in all rooms.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a source of electrical
current with a minimum 60 amp- size service.
      (2)   Each bathroom shall have a convenience receptacle with ground fault
circuit interrupter protection.
      (3)   An approved electrical outlet shall be provided when an electric
cooking appliance is used.
   (D)   Ventilation.
      (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, as measured
between stops, for every habitable room shall be 7% of the floor area of such
room.
      (2)   The total openable window area in every habitable room shall be
equal to at least 45% of the minimum skylight-type window size as required in
division (E) below, except where there is supplied some other device affording
adequate ventilation and approved by the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (3)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall have one openable
window or openable skylight, except that no window or skylight shall be
required in bathrooms or water closet compartments which are equipped with a
mechanical ventilation system.
      (4)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple-dwelling unit
shall be provided with adequate lighting.
      (5)   Every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor space
shall have screens and a self-closing device supplied, and every window or
other device with openings to outdoor space which is used or intended to be
used for ventilation shall likewise be supplied with screens.
      (6)   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation and every other opening to a basement or cellar which might provide
an entry for rodents shall be supplied with a screen or such other device as
will effectively prevent their entry.
   (E)   Size, height and floor area.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants and 75
additional square feet for any occupant thereafter.
      (2)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes shall provide square
footage in compliance with the following:
         (a)   One occupant: At least 70 square feet; and
         (b)   For each additional occupant: 50 square feet.
      (3)   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room shall
have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet six inches.
      (4)   Unfinished basements or cellars shall not be used for sleeping
purposes.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.17 SAFETY AND MAINTENANCE.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling unit for the purpose of living therein which does not comply with the
following requirements.
   (A)   Exterior doors, including any exterior basement entrance and every
exterior window, shall be supplied with a lock. The owner must supply locks,
and the owner and occupant shall have the right to the key or keys for entry to
the leased space.
   (B)   Every plumbing fixture, water pipe and waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good, sanitary working condition, free from
defects, leaks and obstructions.
   (C)   Every toilet room floor and bathroom floor surface shall be
constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water, and so
as to permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (D)   No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed from,
shut off from or discontinued from any occupied dwelling or dwelling unit let
or occupied by him or her except for such temporary interruption as may be
necessary when actual repairs or alterations are in progress, or during
temporary emergencies when discontinuance of service is approved by the Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (E)   Every dwelling unit shall have its own metering system for natural
gas, water, electricity or any other utility provided in the dwelling. If this
requirement is not met, then the owner of the dwelling must have the utilities
which are not metered separately in his or her own name.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Every owner of a dwelling, dwelling units, rooming units or hotel
shall be responsible for maintaining it in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit or rooming unit shall keep in a
clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling unit or rooming unit,
and the premises thereof, which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures
therein in a clean and sanitary condition, and shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
   (D)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
hanging all screens in double doors, storm doors and windows whenever the same
are required under the provisions of this chapter, except where the owner has
agreed to supply such service.
   (E)   (1)   Every occupant and owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises.
         (a)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more
than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his
or her dwelling unit is the only dwelling unit infested.
         (b)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more dwelling units, the
extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of the owner.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (E)(1) above, whenever
an infestation is caused by a failure of the owner to maintain the dwelling in
a ratproof or reasonably insectproof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
      (3)   (a)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose
of all garbage, rubbish, wastes, appliances, furniture and bulky items in a
sanitary manner.
         (b)   This provision does not relieve the owner of the responsibility
to maintain the property in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   (1)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of
all garbage which might provide food for rodents in a clean and sanitary manner
by placing it in disposal facilities or storage containers.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility and duty of the owner of any
building containing more than one dwelling unit to provide the required waste
disposal facilities.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.19 HOTEL, MOTEL AND ROOMING HOUSE OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a hotel or rooming house, nor occupy or let to
another for occupancy any rooming unit in any hotel, motel or rooming house,
except in compliance with the provisions set forth in this section.
   (B)   In addition to the provisions set forth in this chapter for all rental
properties, the following requirements shall be met.
      (1)   At least one flush toilet, bathroom sink and bathtub or shower
which are properly connected to the water and sewer systems of the city and in
good working condition shall be supplied for every eight persons, or fraction
thereof, residing within a hotel or rooming house, including the members of the
operator’s family whenever they share the use of such facilities. Every
bathroom sink and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot water at all
times. No such facilities shall be located in a basement.
      (2)   The operator of every hotel, motel or rooming house shall change
supplied bed linens and towels therein at least once each week, and prior to
the letting of any room to any occupant, the operator shall be responsible for
the maintenance of all supplied bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
      (3)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall
contain at least 70 square feet of floor area, and every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet
of floor area for each occupant thereof.
      (4)   Every rooming unit shall have a safe and unobstructed means of
egress leading to a safe and open space at ground level.
      (5)   The operator of every hotel, motel or rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings and
for the maintenance and sanitary condition of every other part of the hotel,
motel or rooming house, including where the entire structure or building is
leased or occupied by the operator.
      (6)   Owners or managers of hotels, motels or rooming houses shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, vermin or other
pests therein or on the premises.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.20 RENTAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No owner of real estate within the city shall permit the real estate
to be leased for any purpose that includes any person using the premises as
their living quarters until a rental certification for each rental unit in a
building has been obtained. No rental certification shall be required for a
manufactured or modular home occupied by the owner of the same who does not own
the real estate on which the manufactured or modular home is located.
   (B)   (1)   A rental certification shall be obtained by making an
application on forms provided by the city at the office of the Code Enforcement
Officer and by paying an annual certification fee of $50 for each rental
dwelling unit and an annual fee of $150 for each hotel, motel and rooming
house. The fees shall be submitted at the time the application is made and be
payable at City Hall, 700 N. High Street.
      (2)   At the time the application is made, the owner of the real estate
shall supply his or her mailing address, the street address of the property
being certified, the nature of the rental building or unit and any other
information which may be required to assist in inspections and the enforcement
of this chapter.
   (C)   The owner or the owner’s representative shall be entitled to 72 hours’
written notice from the Code Enforcement Officer prior to conducting an
inspection. In the event that the owner, or if occupied, the tenant, refuses to
allow the inspection, the Code Enforcement Officer shall apply for a warrant to
make the inspection.
   (D)   After an inspection is complete and the rental unit is determined to
be in compliance with this chapter, the Code Enforcement Officer shall issue to
the owner a certificate.
   (E)   (1)   Each certificate shall be valid for a period of two years. A
certificate shall be renewed by its expiration date by submitting the
application fee to the office of the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   Certificates issued shall be valid for the specified period and
commence on the anniversary date of the original expiration date, not as of the
date of payment. In the event that the application fee is not paid within 30
days after the expiration date, a late fee of $100 will be assessed and the
renewal will be retroactive to the prior expiration date.
      (3)   Payment of the certificate fee shall not be considered a defense to
any action filed by the city to enforce the provisions of this chapter if such
action was filed prior to payment of the application fee. In the event of a
certificate revocation by the Code Enforcement Officer or the Property
Standards Board, said property must be recertified through the process
addressed in divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) above.
   (F)   A rental certification applies to the rental unit and not to the owner
of the property. However, within 30 days of the sale of equitable or legal
title to any property certified under this chapter, any person acquiring
equitable or legal title shall notify the Code Enforcement Officer of his or
her name and mailing address and the address of the property acquired. No new
application fee shall be due until the expiration date of the current
certification.
   (G)   Each owner of a rental unit warrants at each change of tenant that the
rental unit meets the certification and inspection requirements set forth in
this chapter. This warrant is implied in the very act of renting the unit, and
liability for it may not be removed by any act or agreement, either written or
verbal, of either the owner or the prospective tenant.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21 SMOKE ALARM INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All rental units, including hotels, motels and any other buildings of
mixed occupancy having any residential units, shall be equipped with approved
smoke alarms.
   (B)   Every owner, owner’s representative or manager of any rental unit
shall install in every dwelling unit or rooming unit not less than one approved
smoke alarm within 15 feet of all rooms used for sleeping purposes. The
installation of the smoke alarms shall be in accordance with the manufacturer’s
written instructions for that location.
   (C)   Every owner, owner’s representative or manager of any rental unit
shall install in every dwelling unit or rooming unit not less than one approved
smoke alarm on the uppermost ceiling of all interior stairwells. The
installation of the smoke detector shall be in accordance with the
manufacturer’s written instructions for that location.
   (D)   All approved smoke alarms required by this section shall be either
ionization or photoelectric types and either battery powered or receiving their
primary power from the building’s wiring when such building is served from a
commercial source, and when primary power is interrupted, receiving their power
from a battery. Smoke alarms shall be listed and labeled in accordance with UL
217 and installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s written instructions.
   (E)   At every change of tenants in a rental unit, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner, owner’s representative or manager to test and
ascertain that the approved smoke detectors are in operable condition. It is
the tenants’ responsibility to replace batteries as needed while they occupy
the rental unit and to report to the owner, owner’s representative or manager
any repairs needed to any smoke detector.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.22 BED BUG ELIMINATION.
   (A)   Bed bugs are hereby declared to be a public nuisance subject to the
abatement provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   It is the responsibility of every rental certification holder
under this chapter to provide pest control services when bed bugs are found on
any licensed premises. Pest control services shall be conducted by a pest
management professional as many times as necessary to totally eliminate the
reported bed bug problem.
      (2)   Every licensee shall maintain a written record of the pest control
measures performed by the pest management professional on the licensed premises
and the receipts and reports prepared by the pest management professional
related to those measures taken. The record shall be open to inspection by the
Code Enforcement Officer or the County Health Department.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any certified rental unit under this chapter
which provides sleeping accommodations for hire, rent or otherwise to provide
any such sleeping accommodations in which an infestation of any bed bugs is
discovered or suspected unless an inspection by the pest management
professional has determined that no such infestation exists or that the
infestation has been exterminated.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.23 VACANT BUILDING STEWARDSHIP.
   The city recognizes that vacant buildings pose and present special problems.
An owner has an affirmative duty to secure and protect structures located on
the owner’s property.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATIONS
§ 152.35 INSPECTIONS OF RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Every rental unit operated and maintained in the city may be subject
to an annual inspection by the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee.
The inspection shall be made to ascertain that the facility conforms to all of
the requirements of this chapter and to any other ordinance of the city and all
statutes of the state regarding such facilities.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer and City Property Standards Board are
authorized to enter, examine and survey all rental units at reasonable times.
At reasonable times, the owner, owner’s representative and occupant of every
rental unit shall give the Code Enforcement Officer or the Board free access to
such rental unit and its premises for the purpose of such inspection,
examination and survey, provided, however, that such Code Enforcement Officer
has positively identified himself or herself as a person authorized pursuant to
this chapter to enter upon the premises prior to entry thereof. At the time of
each inspection, all pets must be controlled so that the Code Enforcement
Officer can move about the rental unit and surrounding property without
interruptions.
      (1)   The owner or the owner’s representative shall be entitled to 72
hours’ written notice from the Code Enforcement Officer prior to conducting the
inspection, examination or survey. The owner or the owner’s representative
shall be responsible for notifying the occupant of any rental unit of the
inspection when he or she receives notice of the intent to inspect.
      (2)   In the event that the owner, or if occupied, the tenant, refuses to
allow the inspection, the Code Enforcement Officer shall petition the City
Property Standards Board for legal action.
      (3)   This provision shall not be construed to limit or restrain the
right of the Code Enforcement Officer to make an inspection of any other
building or premises.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue to the owner after the
inspected rental unit an inspection certificate as proof that the unit passed
inspection. The inspection certificate shall be valid until the next
inspection.
   (D)   If the Code Enforcement Officer finds that a rental unit fails to
comply with any other ordinance of the city or any statute of the state, then
he or she shall give notice of the alleged violation to the owner of the rental
unit. The notice shall be in writing and shall reasonably describe the
violation found. The notice shall further specify the date by which the
violation must be corrected. The notice shall be served upon the owner or the
owner’s representative and the occupant of the rental unit.
   (E)   Upon notification that a rental unit has not obtained a rental
certification, the Code Enforcement Officer may inspect such premises upon 24-
hour notification to the owner of the property for the purpose of determining
if any inspection certificate is required. If access cannot be obtained, the
Code Enforcement Officer may obtain an inspection warrant.
   (F)   At each change of occupancy, the owner or the owner’s representative
shall provide the occupant with a copy of the inspection certificate. In the
case of a hotel or rooming house, the inspection certificate shall be posted in
a conspicuous place within the facility.
   (G)   Every occupant of a rental unit shall give the owner thereof or the
owner’s representative access to any part of such rental unit or its premises
at reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as
are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 SERVING NOTICES OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall give notice of a violation of this
chapter. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be delivered by registered
or certified mail to the owner of record as recorded in the County Records
Office at the last known address on file in the County Treasurer’s Office. If
the owner’s address is different than the address shown for the property
involved, then a notice shall also be sent to the address of the property
involved, addressed to the occupant of such address.
   (B)   The notice shall constitute an order based upon findings of fact
directing the owner and occupant to repair, vacate or demolish such building or
otherwise comply with such order.
   (C)   The notice shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name of the owner, occupant and any other persons with legal
interest in the premises;
      (2)   The street address or legal description of the premises;
      (3)   A general description of the improvements located on the property;
      (4)   A list of defects;
      (5)   Whether or not repairs or corrections of the defects shall be made
so that the building will comply with the terms of this chapter, and if so, a
list of the required repairs, or whether or not the building shall be
demolished;
      (6)   Whether or not the building shall be vacated by the occupants, and
if so, the date by which such vacation shall be effected;
      (7)   Whether or not the building constitutes a fire menace; and
      (8)   A statement of the time considered reasonable for the owner to make
the required repairs or otherwise comply with the requirements of the notice,
or to allow the occupant time to vacate the premises.
         (a)   A reasonable time shall not exceed 30 days except for in cases
of unusual or extenuating circumstances. The time to commence may be extended
by the Code Enforcement Officer for an additional period of up to 60 days,
provided that an application for an extension is made by the owner, occupant or
other person who has a legal interest in the property at least five days before
the expiration of the time to commence, repair, vacate, demolish or otherwise
comply with the notice.
         (b)   A reasonable time to complete the repairs, vacation or
demolition or to otherwise comply as provided in the notice shall not exceed 90
days from the date of notice unless the time is extended by action of the City
Property Standards Board.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 152.37 SERVING NOTICES OF VIOLATION ON CITY NONRESIDENTS.
   When the owner, lien holder or other legally- interested person is not a
resident of the city or county, all notices and orders provided for herein
shall be sent by registered or certified mail to the last address on file in
the County Treasurer’s Office.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 152.38 PLACARD POSTING ON UNINHABITABLE OR DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Upon inspection of any building within the city, if the Code
Enforcement Officer shall find the same to be uninhabitable, then he or she
shall place a placard on the uninhabitable and dangerous building.
   (B)   The placard shall read as follows.
 
DANGER
This structure is declared unsafe for human occupancy or use.
It is unlawful for any person to use or occupy this building after: ______.
Any unauthorized person removing this sign WILL BE PROSECUTED.
Refer to: Ordinance No. ______
Signed: ______
 
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 152.39 AGREEING WITH NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND REMEDIAL ACTION.
   The owner or person with a legal interest may agree with the Code
Enforcement Officer’s notice of violation, and the owner or person with legal
interest may agree to the remedial action recommended by the Code Enforcement
Officer. Any such agreement shall be in writing and shall define the defect of
defects and the remedial action which will be taken to remedy the defect or
defects. The agreement shall include a time frame to complete all remedial
actions.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 152.40 GIVING NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall give notice of all proceedings
before the City Property Standards Board to the owner of record of the affected
property and to each holder of a recorded lien against said property as shown
by the County Recorder’s records. The Code Enforcement Officer shall give
notice to all unknown owners by posting a copy of the notice on the front door
of each improvement situated on the affected property, or as close to the front
door as is practical.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall mail by registered or certified
mail and post each required notice at least ten days prior to the date of the
scheduled hearing before the City Property Standards Board. At least ten days
prior to the hearing, the Code Enforcement Officer shall also publish on one
occasion a notice of the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city.
   (C)   Notice required to be mailed, posted or published under this section
shall state the date, time and place of the hearing. In addition, each notice
shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the owner or owners, the occupant or occupants and
other persons with legal interest in the property;
      (2)   The street address or legal description of the premises;
      (3)   A general description of the improvements;
      (4)   A list of defects on the property; and
      (5)   A brief statement of the action to be considered by the Property
Standards Board.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 152.41 HEARINGS.
   (A)   The property owner or other person with a legal interest in or
affected by the Code Enforcement Officer’s notice may appear and be heard at
the hearing scheduled before the City Property Standards Board. An aggrieved
person may present facts or evidence that the subject rental unit is not
defective or in violation of this chapter. The affected person may be
represented by an attorney and may bring witnesses or other evidence to the
hearing for the City Property Standards Board’s consideration. The Board will
receive evidence from affected and interested persons together with the
evidence and findings of the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Thereafter, the City Property Standards Board will issue its findings
and an order with its determination of whether or not the structure is
defective and in violation of this chapter.
      (1)   Findings and determinations will be made with sufficient clarity
and specificity so as to identity the conditions which constitute the defect,
and therefore, a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The order shall describe the remedial repairs, maintenance or
demolitions which the City Property Standards Board determines are necessary to
remedy the defects and the violations of this chapter.
      (3)   The order shall specify the time frame within which the owner or
affected person with a legal interest shall have to remedy the defects and the
violations of this chapter.
   (C)   The owner or other affected person with legal interest may agree and
consent to the findings and the order of the City Property Standards Board. In
such an event, the owner or affected person with legal interest will sign the
findings and order, which shall become binding on the owner or affected person
with legal interest without further action by the City Property Standards
Board.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 152.42 APPEALS.
   (A)   In the event the owner or affected person with legal interest does not
agree with the City Property Standards Board’s findings and order, the owner or
affected person with legal interest shall have the right to appeal the decision
of the City Property Standards Board to the County Circuit Court or Superior
Court by initiating an action within 30 days from the date of the Board’s
order.
   (B)   In the event the owner or affected person with legal interest does not
agree with the Board’s findings and order, the City Property Standards Board
may seek enforcement of the order by filing an action in the County Circuit
Court or Superior Court to enforce its findings and order by a judicial decree.
The judicial review provided herein shall not be a trial de novo, except that
the court may, at the court’s discretion, allow additional evidence as the
court deems appropriate and necessary.
   (C)   In the event the owner or affected person with legal interest does not
agree with the Board’s findings and order, and in the event either party seeks
the intervention of a court, remedial action shall not be required until the
judicial proceedings are completed or the court enters an order directing
remedial action.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 152.43 REMEDIATION BY CITY; COST ASSESSED AS LIEN.
   (A)   In the event an owner or affected person with legal interest does not
undertake remedial action as required by the Board’s findings and order or by a
judicial determination thereon, the city may take remedial action as necessary
and pursue an action at law against the owner or affect person with legal
interest for the costs necessitated thereby.
   (B)   Any costs and expenses incurred by the city for remedial action under
this chapter shall become a lien against the subject property with or without a
judicial decree or judgment.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.44 CITY RESPONSE IN EMERGENCY CIRCUMSTANCES.
   (A)   In the event the City Property Standards Board, at the request of the
Code Enforcement Officer, Health Department or other governmental agency
charged with the responsibility of protecting the public health, safety and
welfare, determines that an emergency exists, then and in that event, the City
Property Standards Board may proceed to take appropriate remedial action as may
be necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare, including
demolition of the rental unit which is in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event the City Property Standards Board invokes the emergency
provisions of this section, the City Property Standards Board shall provide
notice as is reasonable under the circumstances to the owner and any person
with a legal interest as disclosed in the records of the County Treasurer’s
Office and County Recorder’s Office. Notice sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the address of the owner and any person with a legal
interest shall be deemed good and sufficient notice.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be addressed as established in the State
Code and as the same may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings
   
153.03   Purpose
   
153.04   Objectives
   
153.05   Effective date
   
153.06   Definitions
   
153.07   Floodplain Administrator, duties and responsibilities
Permits
   
153.20   Floodplain development permits
   
153.21   Application stage requirements
   
153.22   Construction stage requirements
   
153.23   Finished construction requirements
Flood Hazard Reduction Provisions
   
153.35   General SFHA standards
   
153.36   Protection below flood protection grade, all structures
   
153.37   Residential structures
   
153.38   Nonresidential structures
   
153.39   Elevated structures
   
153.40   Structures constructed on fill
   
153.41   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles
   
153.42   Accessory structures
   
153.43   Aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks
   
153.44   Subdivision proposals
   
153.45   Critical facilities
   
153.46   Identified floodways
   
153.47   Identified fringe areas
   
153.48   SFHAs without established base flood elevation or floodways/fringes
   
153.49   Flood-prone areas
Variances
   
153.60   Variance and Appeals Board, duties and responsibilities
   
153.61   Variance procedures
   
153.62   Conditions for variances
   
153.63   Historic structure repair or rehabilitation
   
153.64   Variance notification
   
153.65   Special conditions for grant of variance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state’s legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Common Council of the city does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS.
   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation which
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely
affects the public health, safety and general welfare. These flood losses are
caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities and by occupancy in flood hazard
areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands which are
inadequately elevated, inadequately floodproofed or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally-subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the city by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize the expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities located in
floodplains, such as water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines,
streets and bridges; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner so as to minimize flood
blight areas.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter came into full force and effect on July 7, 2014.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. The portions of an SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AH, Zone A99, Zone AO, and Zone AR on a FIRM. The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE and ZONES A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1%
annual chance flood event as determined by detailed methods. Base flood
elevations are shown within these zones. ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in
place of ZONES A1-A30.
      (3)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding, usually areas of ponding, where the average depths are between one
and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses
are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams or levees, to consider it complete for insurance-
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
      (5)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding, usually sheet flow on sloping terrain, where the average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (6)   ZONE AR. Areas which result from the decertification of a
previously-accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the
process of being restored to provide base flood protection.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE or APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less which is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation and shall be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay sheds.
   ADDITION or ADDITION TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any walled and roofed
expansion to the perimeter of a structure in which the ADDITION is connected by
a common load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed
addition which is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent
perimeter load-bearing walls is NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly-defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION or BFE. The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade, or below
ground level, on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River which forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity which has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM or CRS. A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
Program which have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements
to develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations and installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials
or hazardous wastes.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   The construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or
any addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erecting walls and fences, constructing
roads or similar projects;
         (d)   The construction of flood control structures such as levees,
dikes, dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavating or drilling
operations;
         (f)   The construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   The storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity which might change the direction, height or
velocity of floodwaters or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as activities for the
maintenance of existing structures and facilities, such as painting, reroofing,
resurfacing roads or gardening, or plowing and similar agricultural practices
which do not involve filling, grading, excavating or the construction of
permanent structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations, also called chain walls, pilings or
columns such as posts and piers.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement which verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first-layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including, at minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads, is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the unusual and rapid accumulation, overflow or
runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP or FBFM. An official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration
(FIA) has delineated the areas of flood hazard and regulatory floodways.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP or FIRM. An official map of a community on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY or FIS. The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, the
FBFM, where applicable, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area which is acknowledged by a community as
being susceptible to inundation by water from any source. See FLOOD.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE or FPG. The elevation of the regulatory flood plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA. See FREEBOARD.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and for preserving, and where
possible, enhancing, the natural resources in a floodplain. This includes, but
is not limited to, open space plans, emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works and floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations and special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.07 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Designation. The Zoning Administrator of the county is to administer
and implement the provisions of this chapter, and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator and his or her designated staff are
hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Review all floodplain development permits to ensure that the
permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and
complete substantial damage determinations;
         (c)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
153.46 and
153.48(A) of this chapter and maintain a record of such authorization, either a
copy of the actual permit and authorization or the floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessment;
         (d)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits and authorizations are to be maintained on file with the
floodplain development permit;
         (e)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
         (f)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration to or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
         (g)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments, letters of recommendation, federal permit documents and
as- built elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
         (h)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently-effective SFHA maps of the
community;
         (i)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (j)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (k)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor,
including basements, of all new or substantially-improved structures in
accordance with §§
153.20 through
153.23 of this chapter;
         (l)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially-improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §§
153.20 through
153.23 of this chapter; and
         (m)   Issue stop-work orders.
            1.   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises which is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
            2.   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property, his or her agent or the person doing the work, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
PERMITS
§ 153.20 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question, the existing or proposed structures,
earthen fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities and the
locations of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the information in §§
153.21 through
153.23 of this chapter is required.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.21 APPLICATION STAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A description of the proposed development;
   (B)   The location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate the property and structure or structures in relation to existing roads
and streams;
   (C)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades;
   (D)   A legal description of the property site;
   (E)   The elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor, including the
basement, of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
   (F)   The elevation, in NAVD 88 or NGVD, to which any nonresidential
structure will be floodproofed; and
   (G)   A description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of the proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required, with any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. See §
153.07(B)(2)(f) of this chapter for additional information.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.22 CONSTRUCTION STAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upon the establishment or placement of the lowest floor, in order to
include any approved floodproofing, before framing continues, it shall be the
duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification
of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or the floodproofed
elevation, as-built. Said certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by the same. When floodproofing is utilized for a particular
structure, said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by the same.
   (B)   Any work undertaken prior to submission of the floodproofing
certification shall be at the applicant’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor and floodproofing elevation survey data
submitted. The applicant shall correct deficiencies detected by such review
before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make the corrections required shall be cause to issue a stop-work
order for the project.
   (C)   Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
lowest floor or floodproofed elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct any deficiencies detected by such review. Failure to submit the
elevation certification or failure to make the corrections required shall be
cause to issue a stop- work order for the project.
   (D)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a floodproofed
structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer and
certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
floodproofing certification submitted. The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the floodproofing certification or failure to make
the corrections required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.23 FINISHED CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upon the completion of construction, a FEMA elevation certificate,
Form 81-31, which depicts all finished construction is required to be submitted
to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   If the project includes a floodproofing measure, then a FEMA
floodproofing certificate, Form 81-65, is required to be submitted by the
applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION PROVISIONS
§ 153.35 GENERAL SFHA STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, the
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices which minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at or
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed so as
to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.36 PROTECTION BELOW FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE, ALL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
153.35 of this chapter, all structures to be located in a SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPG.
   (B)   This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
      (1)   The construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   An addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure, excluding the value of the land;
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure, excluding the value of the
land, before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This division (B)(5) does not apply to returning an
existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was
removed to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   An addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement which was constructed since the community’s
first floodplain ordinance; and
      (7)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive-loss structure.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.37 RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   In all SFHAs, the new construction or substantial improvement of any
residential structure or manufactured home shall have the lowest floor,
including the basement, at or above the FPG, two feet above the base flood
elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, then openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
153.39 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.38 NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   In all SFHAs, the new construction or substantial improvement of any
commercial, industrial or nonresidential structure or manufactured home shall
either have the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated to or above the
FPG, two feet above the base flood elevation, or be floodproofed to or above
the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, then openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
153.39 of this chapter.
   (B)   Structures located in all A Zones may be floodproofed in lieu of being
elevated if done in accordance with the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structural design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
153.07(B)(2)(l) of this chapter.
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.39 ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   In all SFHAs, the new construction or substantial improvement of
elevated structures shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
   (B)   Elevated structures with fully-enclosed areas formed by the foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls. Designs
must meet the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls which have a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be not more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
      (4)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking for vehicles, as in a garage door, or for the limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises, as in a standard
exterior door, or for entry to the living area, as in a stairway or elevator;
      (5)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms; and
      (6)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an elevation
at or higher than the exterior grade.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.40 STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTED ON FILL.
   In all SFHAs, a residential or nonresidential structure may be constructed
on a permanent land fill in accordance with the following.
   (A)   Fill shall be placed in layers not greater than one foot deep before
compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the Standard or
Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing compliance shall
be retained in the permit file.
   (B)   Fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the structure
before sloping below BFE.
   (C)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding by
vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is used, then
slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
   (D)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties.
   (E)   The top of the lowest floor, including the basement, shall be at or
above the FPG.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.41 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   In all SFHAs, manufactured homes and recreational vehicles which are to be
installed or substantially improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet
one of the following requirements.
   (A)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on a
site outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and be securely
anchored to an adequately-anchored foundation system so as to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Fully-enclosed areas formed by the foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated structures
in §
153.39 of this chapter.
      (3)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame or
foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
   (B)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on a
site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision which has not been
substantially damaged by a flood.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations which are not less than 36 inches in height above grade
and be securely anchored to an adequately-anchored foundation system so as to
resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Fully-enclosed areas formed by the foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated structures
in §
153.39 of this chapter.
      (3)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame or
foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall:
      (1)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
      (2)   Be fully-licensed and READY FOR HIGHWAY USE, which is defined as
being on its wheels or jacking system, being attached to the site only by quick
disconnect-type utilities and security devices and having no permanently-
attached additions; or
      (3)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated in divisions
(A) or (B) above.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.42 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   In all SFHAs, relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing standards
may be granted for accessory structures.
   (B)   Such structures must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot so as to offer minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in §
153.39 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.43 ABOVEGROUND GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   In all SFHAs, all aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored
to prevent flotation or lateral movement.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.44 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed so as
to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided so as
to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed developments, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, which are greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in an SFHA and
limit the density of development permitted in an SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into and out of
SFHAs for pedestrians and vehicles, especially emergency responders.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.45 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   To the extent possible, the construction of new critical facilities shall be
located outside of the limits of an SFHA. The construction of new critical
facilities shall be permissible within an SFHA if no feasible alternative site
is available. Critical facilities constructed within an SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.46 IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established herein are areas designated as
floodways. A floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters, which carry debris and potential projectiles and have erosion
potential. If a site is in an identified floodway, then the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources and apply for a permit for construction in a floodway.
   (B)   (1)   Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for construction
in a floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources is required prior
to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit,
construction or obstruction activity located in a floodway. This includes land
preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing, paving and the like
which are undertaken before the actual start of the construction of a
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions and improvements
to existing, lawful residences in a non-boundary river floodway, as I.C. 14-28-
1-26 allows for the construction of a non-substantial addition or improvement
to a residence in a non- boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for
construction in a floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources.
      (2)   Please note that if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the
existing grade, then prior approval for the fill is required from the State
Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   (1)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or a letter of authorization, when applicable, has been issued by the
State Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in a
floodway.
      (2)   Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the State Department of Natural Resources, the
Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided that the provisions contained in §§
153.35 through
153.49 of this chapter have been met.
      (3)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than
the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the State Department of
Natural Resources. However, a community’s more-restrictive regulations, if any,
shall take precedence.
   (D)   No development shall be allowed which, whether acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development, will adversely affect the
efficiency of or unduly restrict the capacity of a floodway. This adverse
effect is defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at
least fifteen-hundredths of one foot as determined by comparing the regulatory
flood elevation under the project conditions to that under the natural or pre-
floodway conditions as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (E)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill, including
levees, the city shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.47 IDENTIFIED FRINGE AREAS.
   (A)   If a site is located in an identified fringe area, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit, provided that
the provisions contained in §§
153.35 through
153.49 of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of any new or
substantially-improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.48 SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION OR FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is greater than one square mile, then the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway, including letters of
authorization, or a floodplain analysis or regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway, including letters of authorization, or the
floodplain analysis or regulatory assessment approving the proposed
development, a floodplain development permit may be issued, provided that the
conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than
the conditions received from the State Department of Natural Resources and the
provisions contained in §§
153.35 through
153.49 of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If a site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, then the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and the 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided that the provisions contained in §§
153.35 through
153.49 of this chapter have been met.
   (C)   Limitations on total cumulative effect. The total cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the regulatory flood more than fourteen-
hundredths of one foot and will not increase flood damages or potential flood
damages.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.49 FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood-prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA- published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
153.35 through
153.49 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
VARIANCES
§ 153.60 VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board of Zoning Appeals
shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board shall hear and decide
appeals when it is alleged that an error in any requirement, decision or
determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
Board may appeal such decision to the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.61 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter and:
   (A)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including the maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as streets, bridges and sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.62 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or extraordinary
public expense, cause fraud or victimization of the public, create nuisances or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
153.46 and
153.48(A) of this chapter may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
153.46 and
153.48(A) of this chapter will require a permit from the State Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction in §§
153.36 through
153.43 of this chapter may be granted only when a new structure is to be
located on a lot of one-half acre or less in size which is contiguous to and
surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the flood
protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risks resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. See §
153.64 of this chapter.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request. See §
153.64 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.63 HISTORIC STRUCTURE REPAIR OR REHABILITATION.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic structure”
and that the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.64 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted which allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including the justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 153.65 SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR GRANT OF VARIANCE.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed in §§
153.60 through
153.65 of this chapter and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning
Appeals may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
CHAPTER 154: STORM WATER
Section
   
154.01   Storm water fee structure and rates
§ 154.01 STORM WATER FEE STRUCTURE AND RATES.
   (A)   Monthly user fee. For the purposes stated herein, there hereby is
assessed a Storm Water Department user fee to each storm water user within the
public works service area of the city in an amount as determined below.
Monthly Charges
Monthly Charges
5/8-inch meter   $3.09
3/4-inch meter   $3.09
1-inch meter     $7.71
1-1/2-inch meter $17.91
2-inch meter     $30.88
3-inch meter     $71.03
4-inch meter     $123.52
6-inch meter     $281.00
8-inch meter     $281.00
 
   (B)   Residential properties. Any residential properties located within the
public works service area which do not receive water or sanitary sewer services
will be billed at a monthly minimum rate of $3.09, and will be billed
semiannually. The semiannual billings will occur on June 1 and December 1 of
each calendar year.
   (C)   Nonresidential properties. Any nonresidential properties located
within the public works service area which do not receive water or sanitary
sewer services will be billed at a monthly minimum rate of $17.91, and will be
billed semiannually. The semiannual billings will occur on June 1 and December
1 of each calendar year.
   (D)   Multiple-unit residential. Any multiple-unit residential properties
located within the public works service area which do not receive water or
sanitary sewer services will be billed at a monthly minimum rate of $17.91, and
will be billed semiannually. The semiannual billings will occur on June 1 and
December 1 of each calendar year.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 3-5-2012)
CHAPTER 155: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   Required permit for street-, sidewalk- and curb-cuts
   
155.03   Required permit for street and alley access creation
   
155.04   Objects overhanging a street, restrictions
   
155.05   Planting in public parks and places, restrictions
Protection of Streets
   
155.20   Definition
   
155.21   Restricted and prohibited actions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person, corporation, partnership or other entity who desires
to perform work which will require the excavation of any part of any city
street within the corporate boundaries of the city.
   CITY STREET. Any street, alley or right-of-way which has been dedicated and
accepted for public use by the city.
   EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A sudden condition affecting city services, such as water, sewage,
police or fire, which must be immediately corrected such that there is
insufficient time to obtain a permit.
      (2)   In such cases, the person or entity who desires to perform the work
shall immediately and prior to the commencement of said work notify the Street
Commissioner, and shall file the necessary application within 48 hours of
commencing the work.
   STREET CUT. The excavation of any part of any city street for the purpose of
the installation, repair or maintenance of a sewer tap, utility transmission or
line or for any purpose whatsoever.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 155.02 REQUIRED PERMIT FOR STREET-, SIDEWALK- AND CURB-CUTS.
   (A)   Except for in the case of an emergency, no applicant shall make or
cause to be made any street-, sidewalk- or curb-cut on a city street without
first having applied for and received the written permission of the
Commissioner of the Street Department in the form of a “street-cut permit.”
   (B)   A street-cut permit authorizes the applicant to excavate a part of a
city street under the terms and conditions approved by the Board of Public
Works and Safety of the city.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 11-3-2014) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.03 REQUIRED PERMIT FOR STREET AND ALLEY ACCESS CREATION.
   (A)   Except for in the case of an emergency, no applicant shall make or
cause to be made any access intended to facilitate the entry of a vehicle onto
a city street, including an alley, from a private right-of-way including, but
not necessarily limited to, a parking lot, driveway, private road, platted road
intended to be dedicated to the city as part of a development plan or
subdivision plat or any other privately-owned property without first having
applied for and received the written permission of the Commissioner of the
Street Department in the form of a “street access permit.”
   (B)   A street access permit authorizes the applicant to create an access
onto a city street under the terms and conditions approved by the Board of
Public Works and Safety of the city.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 11-3-2014) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 OBJECTS OVERHANGING A STREET, RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall cause or permit any object not properly licensed, registered
or otherwise permitted to be operated on a city street to be placed on or along
a city street which shall, by its location with respect to the city street,
cause any part of the object to obstruct the flow of traffic or parking on the
city street or extend out over the street in such a manner that it could
obstruct the flow of traffic or parking on the city street.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 11-3-2014) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.05 PLANTING IN PUBLIC PARKS AND PLACES, RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall plant or cause to be planted in a public park, or in any
other location owned by or under the control of the city, any type of
vegetation without the prior written consent of the Board of Parks and
Recreation of the city.
(Ord. 2014-13, passed 11-3-2014) Penalty, see §
155.99
PROTECTION OF STREETS
§ 155.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ASPHALT STREET. Any city street or alley where the surface has been paved by
asphalt, tar or any other blacktop or bituminous material.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.010)
§ 155.21 RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation to:
   (A)   Drive, pull, operate or permit to be driven, pulled or operated upon
any asphalt street within the corporation limits of the city any tractor,
wagon, implement or other vehicle upon lugs which are attached to its wheels;
   (B)   Drive, lead or permit any horse shod with calks to walk over any
asphalt streets within the corporation limits of the city;
   (C)   Push, pull or drag over any asphalt street within the corporation
limits of the city any sled, implement or other moveable object the pushing,
pulling or dragging of which will cut, dig or tear the surface of the asphalt
street; or
   (D)   Drive any stake, stakes, pipe or post into or through any asphalt
street within the corporation limits of the city or dig any hole in an asphalt
street in connection with the installing, repairing or replacing of a water or
sewer line prior to obtaining a permit from the City Clerk-Treasurer. Prior to
making a cut in an asphalt street, any person, firm or corporation shall also
secure a bond and post with the Clerk- Treasurer, guaranteeing that the street
shall be repaired to its original condition.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Cuts, access and obstruction. Any person or entity violating the
provisions of §§
155.01 through
155.05 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum not exceeding
$1,000 plus the cost of repair or restoration to original condition of any city
street, alley, sidewalk, water or sewer line damaged by a violation of §§
155.01 through
155.05 of this chapter.
   (C)   Restricted and prohibited actions. Any person, firm or corporation
violating any provision of §§
155.20 and
155.21 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not
exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.030)
(Ord. 463, passed 8-5-1946; Ord. 133, passed 6-16-2004; Ord. 2014-13, passed
11-3-2014)
CHAPTER 156: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Establishment and organization of Commission
   
156.04   Powers and duties of Commission
   
156.05   Relationship with zoning districts
   
156.06   Enforcement by interested parties
   
156.07   Enforcement and violations
Policies, Restrictions and Guidelines
   
156.20   Historic district establishment and guidelines
   
156.21   Interim protection of buildings and structures
   
156.22   Maintenance of historic buildings
   
156.23   Preservation of character upon alteration or relocation
   
156.24   Maintenance of visual compatibility in historic districts
   
156.25   Removal of historic district designation
Certificate of Appropriateness
   
156.40   Conditions when certificate required
   
156.41   Certificate application process
   
156.42   Staff authority to grant or deny certificates
   
156.43   Criteria for considering effect of actions on historic buildings
   
156.44   Approval or denial procedures
   
156.45   Demolitions upon denial of certificate
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of historic preservation and protection is as follows:
      (1)   To promote the educational, cultural and general welfare of the
citizens of the city and to ensure the harmonious and orderly growth and
development of the municipality;
      (2)   To maintain established residential neighborhoods in danger of
having their distinctiveness destroyed;
      (3)   To enhance property values and attract new residents;
      (4)   To ensure the viability of the traditional downtown area and to
enhance tourism within the city; and
      (5)   It is deemed essential by the city that qualities related to its
history and the harmonious outward appearance of its structures be preserved.
   (B)   These purposes are advanced through the restoration and preservation
of historic areas and buildings, the construction of compatible new buildings,
where appropriate, and the maintenance and ensurance of compatibility in
regards to style, form, proportion, texture and material between historic
buildings and those of contemporary design.
   (C)   Through this chapter, it is the intention of the city to preserve and
protect historic or architecturally-worthy buildings, structures, sites,
monuments, streetscapes, squares and neighborhoods of the historic districts
created in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. A material or color change in the external architectural
features of any building, structure or site within an historic district.
   CITY. The City of Hartford City, Indiana.
   CLASSIFICATIONS.
      (1)   CONTRIBUTING or C. The C classification means that the property is
at least 40 years old but does not meet the criteria for an O or N
classification. CONTRIBUTING properties are important to the density or
continuity of the area’s historic fabric. CONTRIBUTING properties can be listed
in the National Register only as part of an historic district.
      (2)   NON-CONTRIBUTING or NC. Property classified as NC is not included
in an historic sites and structures inventory unless it is located within the
boundaries of an historic district. Such properties may be less than 50 years
old, may be older properties which have been altered in such a way that they
have lost their historic character or may be otherwise incompatible with their
historic surroundings. These properties are not eligible for listing in the
National Register.
      (3)   NOTABLE or N. The N classification means that the property does not
merit the outstanding rating, but it is still above average in its importance.
A NOTABLE structure may be eligible for the National Register.
      (4)   OUTSTANDING or O. The O classification means that the property has
sufficient historic or architectural significance such that it is listed or is
eligible for individual listing in the National Register of Historic Places,
herein the “National Register.” OUTSTANDING resources can be of local, state or
national importance.
   COMMISSION. The Historic Preservation Commission established by this
chapter.
   DEMOLITION. The complete or substantial removal of any building or structure
which is located in an historic district.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A single building, structure, site, monument, streetscape
or square, or a concentration of buildings, structures, sites, monuments,
streetscapes, squares or neighborhoods, the boundaries of which are described
or delineated on a map approved in an ordinance adopted by the Common Council.
   INTERESTED PARTY. One of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   The Common Council;
      (3)   The City Plan Commission or other agency having land use planning
jurisdiction over an historic district designated by ordinance;
      (4)   A neighborhood association, whether incorporated or unincorporated,
the majority of whose members are residents of an historic district designated
by an ordinance adopted by the Common Council;
      (5)   An owner or occupant of property located in an historic district
established by an ordinance adopted by the Common Council;
      (6)   Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Inc., or any of its
successors; or
      (7)   The State Historic Preservation Officer designated under I.C. 14-
21-1-19.
   PERSON. As well as an individual, PERSON includes a firm, a partnership, a
limited liability company or a corporation.
   PRESERVATION GUIDELINES. Locally- developed criteria which identify design
concerns to assist property owners in maintaining the character of an historic
district or building during the process of rehabilitation or new construction.
   PRIMARY AREA. The principal area of historic or architectural significance
within an historic district as delineated on the map establishing the
boundaries of the historic district.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Work for which no certificate of appropriateness is
required.
   SECONDARY AREA. An area in an historic district delineated on the map
establishing the boundaries of the historic district which is adjacent to a
primary area and which has a visual relationship to the primary area and could
affect the preservation of the primary area. The purpose of designating a
SECONDARY AREA is to assure its compatibility and harmony with an adjacent
primary area.
   SHALL. The word SHALL is always mandatory.
   STREETSCAPE. The appearance from a public way, the distinguishing
characteristics of which are created by the width of the street and sidewalks
and their paving materials and colors, the design of street furniture such as
street lights, trash receptacles, benches and the like, the use of plant
materials such as trees and shrubs and the setback, mass and proportion of
those buildings which enclose the street.
   VISUAL COMPATIBILITY. Those elements of design which meet the guidelines set
out in §
156.24 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 156.03 ESTABLISHMENT AND ORGANIZATION OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the Historic Preservation
Commission of the city, hereinafter referred to as “the Commission.”
   (B)   Appointment and composition. The Commission shall consist of five
voting members. Voting members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of the Common Council, and shall be residents of the city who are
interested in the preservation and development of historic areas. To the extent
that such professionals are available in the community, the members of the
Commission should include professionals in architectural history, planning and
other disciplines related to historic preservation. Advisory members deemed
appropriate by the Common Council may be appointed to the Commission.
Commission members shall serve without compensation except for reimbursement
for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (C)   Term. Voting members shall each serve for a term of three years;
however, the terms of the original voting members shall be for one year, two
years and three years in order for the terms to be staggered. The term for
nonvoting, advisory members shall be for three years. A vacancy shall be filled
within 90 days for the duration of the term.
   (D)   Commission Administrator. A City Administrator designated by the Mayor
shall serve as the ex-officio administrator of the Commission. The
Administrator shall provide staff assistance to the Commission, act as the
Commission’s Secretary and issue certificates of appropriateness as directed by
the Commission.
   (E)   Officers. The Commission shall elect from its membership a
Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson and a Treasurer, who shall serve for one year
and who may be reelected. The Commission Administrator shall serve as the
Commission’s Secretary.
   (F)   Rules. The Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of its
business. The rules must include the time and place of regular meetings and a
procedure for the calling of special meetings. All meetings of the Commission
must be open to the public, and a public record of the Commission’s
resolutions, proceedings and actions must be kept. If the Commission has an
Administrator, then the Administrator shall act as the Commission’s Secretary;
otherwise, the Commission shall elect a Secretary from its membership.
   (G)   Meetings. Commission meetings must be open to the public, and a public
record shall be kept of the Commission’s resolutions, proceedings and actions.
The Commission shall hold regular meetings at least monthly except for when it
has no business pending. Special meetings may be called in a manner determined
by the Commission and its rules.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 156.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission shall be concerned with those elements of
development, redevelopment, rehabilitation and preservation which affect the
visual quality in an historic district.
      (2)   The Commission may not consider details of design, interior
arrangements or building features if those details, arrangements or features
are not subject to public view, and may not make any requirement except for the
purpose of preventing development, alteration or demolition in an historic
district which is obviously incongruous with the historic district.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct a survey to identify historic buildings,
sites and structures located within the city. Based on its survey, the
Commission shall submit to the Common Council a map describing the boundaries
of an historic district or districts. A district may be limited to the
boundaries of a property containing a single building, structure or site. The
map may divide a district into primary and secondary areas.
   (C)   The Commission shall also classify and designate on the map all
buildings, structures and sites within each historic district described on the
map. Buildings, structures and sites shall be classified as historic or non-
historic in the manner set forth in divisions (D) and (E) below.
   (D)   Buildings, structures and sites classified as historic must possess
identified historic or architectural merit of a degree warranting their
preservation. They may be further classified as outstanding, notable or
contributing, as defined in §
156.02 of this chapter. In lieu of these further classifications, the
Commission may devise its own system of further classification for historic
buildings, structures and sites.
   (E)   Non-historic buildings and structures are those not classified on the
map as historic under division (D) above.
   (F)   The Commission may conduct additional surveys and draw and submit
additional maps for approval of the Common Council as the Commission considers
appropriate.
   (G)   The Commission may adopt preservation guidelines for architectural
review. If adopted, then such preservation guidelines shall be published and
made readily accessible to the general public.
   (H)   The Commission has the authority to receive funds in order to promote
its stated purposes.
   (I)   The Commission shall promote public interest in historic preservation
by initiating and carrying on a public relations and community education
program.
   (J)   The Commission shall have the authority to:
      (1)   Acquire by purchase, gift, grant, bequest, devise or lease any real
or personal property, including easements, which is appropriate for carrying
out the purposes of the Commission;
      (2)   Hold title to real and personal property;
      (3)   Sell, lease, rent or otherwise dispose of real and personal
property at a public or private sale on the terms and conditions which the
Commission considers best; and
      (4)   Establish procedures which the Commission must follow in acquiring
and disposing of property.
   (K)   Each official of the city who has responsibility for building
inspection, building permits, planning or zoning shall provide any technical,
administrative or clerical assistance requested by the Commission. The Attorney
for the city shall serve as the Attorney for the Commission. However, the
Commission may employ other legal counsel authorized to practice law in the
state if it considers it necessary or desirable.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 156.05 RELATIONSHIP WITH ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Zoning districts lying within the boundaries of an historic district are
subject to regulations for both the zoning district and the historic district.
If there is a conflict between the requirements of the zoning district and the
requirements of the historic district, the more-restrictive requirements shall
apply.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 156.06 ENFORCEMENT BY INTERESTED PARTIES.
   (A)   An interested party, as defined in §
156.02 of this chapter, has a private right-of-action to enforce and prevent
violations of this chapter or an ordinance adopted by the city under this
chapter with respect to any building, structure or site within an historic
district, and has the right to restrain, enjoin or enforce by restraining order
or injunction, whether temporarily or permanently, any person from violating
this chapter or an ordinance adopted under this chapter.
   (B)   The interested party does not have to allege or prove irreparable harm
or injury to any person or property to obtain relief under this section.
   (C)   The interested party bringing an action under this section does not
have to post a bond unless the court, after a hearing, determines that a bond
should be required in the interest of justice.
   (D)   The interested party who brings an action under this section is not
liable to any person for damages resulting from bringing or prosecuting the
action unless the action was brought without good faith or without a reasonable
belief that a provision of this chapter or an ordinance adopted by the Common
Council pursuant to this chapter had been, or was about to be, violated.
   (E)   An interested party who obtains a favorable judgment in an action
under this section may recover reasonable attorney fees and court costs from
the person against whom judgment was rendered.
   (F)   An action arising under this section must be brought in the Circuit
Court or Superior Court of the county in which the historic district lies, and
no change of venue from said county shall be allowed in the action.
   (G)   The remedy provided in this section is in addition to other remedies
which may be available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.07 ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon an application for a certificate of appropriateness, the
final determination of the Commission is subject to judicial review in the same
manner and subject to the same limitations as a final decision of the Board of
Zoning Appeals under I.C. 36-7-4.
      (2)   However, notwithstanding I.C. 36-7-4-1609, upon notice of the
filing of a petition for judicial review, all proceedings and work on the
subject premises are automatically stayed.
   (B)   (1)   The erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
demolition, color change, moving or maintenance of any building, structure or
appurtenance which is begun, continued or maintained contrary to any provision
of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance, in violation of this
chapter and unlawful.
      (2)   The city may institute a suit for injunction in the County Circuit
Court or County Superior Court to restrain any person or governmental unit from
violating any provision of this chapter and to cause such violation to be
prevented, abated or removed.
      (3)   Such action may also be instituted by any property owner who is
adversely affected by the violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
POLICIES, RESTRICTIONS AND GUIDELINES
§ 156.20 HISTORIC DISTRICT ESTABLISHMENT AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Approval of maps of historic districts. Before an historic district is
established and the building classifications take effect, the map described in
§
156.04(B) and (C) of this chapter setting forth the district’s boundaries and
building classifications must be submitted by the Commission to, and approved
in an ordinance by, the Common Council.
   (B)   Establishment phases; objections by property owners. In an ordinance
approving the establishment of an historic district, the Common Council may
provide that the establishment shall occur in two phases.
      (1)   During the first phase, which continues for a period of three years
from the date the ordinance is adopted, a certificate of appropriateness is
required for the following activities:
         (a)   The demolition of any building;
         (b)   The moving of any building; and
         (c)   Any new construction of a principal building or an accessory
building or structure which is subject to view from a public way.
      (2)   At the expiration of the initial three-year period, the first phase
of the designation of the district continues and the second phase does not
become effective if a majority of the property owners in the district object to
the Commission, in writing, to the requirement that certificates of
appropriateness be issued for the following activities:
         (a)   A change in walls and fences or the construction of walls and
fences along public ways;
         (b)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of historic
buildings by additions, construction, alteration or maintenance involving
exterior color changes; and
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration or maintenance involving exterior color changes.
      (3)   The objections of a majority of the property owners must be
received by the Commission not earlier than 180 days nor later than 60 days
before the third anniversary of the adoption of the ordinance.
   (C)   Exclusion for paint color changes. In an ordinance approving the
establishment of an historic district, the city may exclude changes in paint
color from the activities requiring the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness, defined in §§
156.40, 156.41 and 156.43 through 156.45 of this chapter, before a permit may
be issued or work begun.
   (D)   Recording the fact of designation. The map establishing the boundaries
of an historic district may be recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.21 INTERIM PROTECTION OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   When submitting a map to the Common Council to create an historic
district under this chapter, the Commission may declare one or more buildings
or structures which are classified and designated as historic on the map to be
under interim protection.
   (B)   Not more than two working days after declaring a building or structure
to be under interim protection under this section, the Commission shall, by
personal delivery or first-class mail, provide the owner or occupant of the
building or structure with a written notice of the declaration. The written
notice must:
      (1)   Cite the authority of the Commission to put the building or
structure under interim protection under this section;
      (2)   Explain the effect of putting the building or structure under
interim protection; and
      (3) Indicate that the interim protection is temporary.
   (C)   A building or structure put under interim protection under division
(A) above remains under interim protection until the map is:
      (1)   Submitted to the Common Council; and
      (2)   Approved in an ordinance or rejected by the Common Council.
   (D)   While a building or structure is under interim protection under this
section:
      (1)   The building or structure may not be demolished or moved; and
      (2)   The exterior appearance of the building or structure may not be
conspicuously changed by:
         (a)   Addition;
         (b)   Reconstruction; or
         (c)   Alteration.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.22 MAINTENANCE OF HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Historic buildings shall be maintained to meet the applicable
requirements established under state statutes for buildings generally so as to
prevent the loss of historic materials and the deterioration of important
character-defining details and features.
   (B)   Regarding ordinary repairs and maintenance, nothing in this section
shall be construed to prevent ordinary repairs to and maintenance of any
historic building, provided that such repairs or maintenance do not result in a
conspicuous change in the design, form, proportion, mass, configuration,
building materials, texture, color, location or external visual appearance of
any structure or part thereof.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.23 PRESERVATION OF CHARACTER UPON ALTERATION OR RELOCATION.
   (A)   An historic building or structure, or any part of or appurtenance to
such building or structure including stone walls, fences, light fixtures,
steps, paving and signs, may be moved, reconstructed, altered or maintained
only in a manner which will preserve the historical and architectural character
of the building, structure or appurtenance.
   (B)   An historic building may be relocated to another site only if it is
shown that preservation on its current site is inconsistent with division (A)
above.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.24 MAINTENANCE OF VISUAL COMPATIBILITY IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   New construction, contemporary design and non-historic buildings. To
preserve and encourage the integrity of historic buildings, structures, sites,
monuments, streetscapes and neighborhoods and to ensure their compatibility
with any new work, both the construction of a new building or structure and a
reconstruction, alteration, moving, major maintenance or repair involving a
color change conspicuously affecting the external appearance of any non-
historic building, structure or appurtenance within the primary area of an
historic district must be generally of a design, form, proportion, mass,
configuration, building material, texture, color and location on a lot which is
compatible with other buildings in the historic district, particularly those
buildings designated as historic, and with squares and places to which it is
visually related.
   (B)   Criteria for considering visual compatibility. Within the primary area
of an historic district, new buildings and structures, as well as buildings,
structures and appurtenances which are moved, reconstructed, materially
altered, repaired or changed in color, must be visually compatible with
buildings, squares and places to which they are visually related generally in
terms of the following visual compatibility factors.
      (1)   Height. The height of proposed buildings must be visually
compatible with adjacent buildings.
      (2)   Proportion of building’s front facade. The relationship of the
width of a building to the height of the front elevation must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (3)   Proportion of openings within the facility. The relationship of the
width of the windows to the height of the windows in a building must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually
related.
      (4)   Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. The relationship of
solids to voids in the front facade of a building must be visually compatible
with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (5)   Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The relationship of a
building to the open space between it and adjoining buildings must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (6)   Rhythm of entrances and porch projections. The relationship of the
entrances and porch projections of a building to sidewalks must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (7)   Relationship of materials, texture and color. The relationship of
the materials, texture and color of the facade of a building must be visually
compatible with the predominant materials used in the buildings to which it is
visually related.
      (8)   Roof shapes. The roof shape of a building must be visually
compatible with the buildings to which it is visually related.
      (9)   Walls of continuity. Appurtenances of a building such as walls,
wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses and building facades must form
cohesive walls of enclosure along the street if such is necessary to ensure the
visual compatibility of the building to the buildings, squares and places to
which it is visually related.
      (10)   Scale of building. The size of a building and the building mass of
a building in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches and
balconies must be visually compatible with the buildings, squares and places to
which it is visually related.
      (11)   Directional expression of front elevation. A building must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually
related in its directional character, including vertical character, horizontal
character or non-directional character.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.25 REMOVAL OF HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION.
   (A)   This section provides the exclusive method for removing the
designation of an historic district. The owner or owners of a building,
structure or site designated as a single-site historic district may sign and
file a petition with the legislative body of the unit requesting removal of the
designation of the building, structure or site as an historic district. In the
case of an historic district containing two or more parcels, at least 60% of
the owners of the real property of the historic district must sign and file a
petition with the legislative body of the unit requesting removal of the
designation of the historic district.
   (B)   The legislative body shall submit a petition filed under division (A)
above to the Historic Preservation Commission of the unit. The Historic
Preservation Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the petition not
later than 60 days after receiving the petition. The Historic Preservation
Commission shall provide notice of the hearing:
      (1)   By publication under I.C. 5-3-1-2(b);
      (2)   In the case of an historic district comprised of real property
owned by fewer than 50 property owners, by certified mail sent at least ten
days before the hearing to each owner of real estate within the historic
district; and
      (3)   In the case of a single building, structure or site designated as
an historic district, by certified mail sent at least ten days before the
hearing to each owner of the real estate abutting the building, structure or
site designated as an historic district which is the subject of the petition.
   (C)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall make the following findings
after the public hearing:
      (1)   Whether a building, structure or site within the historic district
continues to meet the criteria for inclusion in an historic district as set
forth in the provisions approving the historic district map under §
156.20 of this chapter. The determination must state specifically the criteria
which are applicable to the buildings, structures or sites within the district;
      (2)   Whether failure to remove the designation of the historic district
would deny an owner of a building, structure or site within the historic
district reasonable use of the owner’s property or prevent reasonable economic
return. Evidence provided by the petitioner may include information on:
         (a)   The cost to comply with regulations;
         (b)   Income generation;
         (c)   The availability of contractors to perform work;
         (d)   Real estate values;
         (e)   Assessed values and taxes;
         (f)   Revenue projections;
         (g)   The current level of return;
         (h)   Operating expenses;
         (i)   Vacancy rates;
         (j)   Financing issues;
         (k)   Efforts to explore alternative uses for a property;
         (l)   The availability of economic incentives; or
         (m)   Recent efforts to sell or rent the property.
      (3)   Whether removal of the designation of an historic district would
have an adverse economic impact on the owners of real estate abutting the
historic district based on the testimony and evidence provided by the owners of
the real estate and by licensed real estate appraisers or brokers; and
      (4)   Whether removal of or failure to remove the designation of the
historic district would have an adverse impact on the unit’s historic
resources, and specifically whether it would result in the loss of a building,
structure or site classified as historic by the Commission’s survey prepared
under §
156.04(B) of this chapter.
   (D)   Not later than ten days after the public hearing, the Historic
Preservation Commission shall submit to the legislative body of the unit:
      (1)   Its findings on the petition; and
      (2)   A recommendation to grant or deny the petition.
   (E)   (1)   Not later than 45 days after receiving the Historic Preservation
Commission’s findings, the legislative body of the unit shall:
         (a)   Take public comment and receive evidence in support of or in
opposition to the petition; and
         (b)   Do one of the following:
            1.   Deny the petition; or
            2.   Grant the petition by adopting an ordinance which removes the
designation of the historic district by:
               a.   A majority vote, if the recommendation of the Historic
Preservation Commission is to grant the petition; or
               b.   A two-thirds vote, if the recommendation of the Historic
Preservation Commission is to deny the petition.
      (2)   The legislative body shall record an ordinance adopted under
division (E)(1)(b)2. above with the County Recorder not later than ten days
after the legislative body adopts the ordinance. The historic district
designation is considered removed on the date the ordinance is recorded with
the County Recorder.
   (F)   (1)   If the legislative body of the unit does not grant or deny the
petition within 45 days after receiving the Historic Preservation Commission’s
findings:
         (a)   The petition is considered granted or denied in accordance with
the recommendation of the Historic Preservation Commission; and
         (b)   If the petition is considered granted, then the legislative body
shall, not later than 55 days after receiving the Historic Preservation
Commission’s findings:
            1.   Adopt an ordinance which removes the designation of the
historic district; and
            2.   Record the ordinance with the County Recorder.
      (2)   The historic district designation is considered removed on the date
the ordinance is recorded with the County Recorder.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020)
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
§ 156.40 CONDITIONS WHEN CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   A certificate of appropriateness must be issued by or on behalf of the
Commission before a permit is issued for or work is begun on any of the
following:
   (A)   Within all areas of an historic district.
      (1)   The demolition of any building;
      (2)   The moving of any building;
      (3)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of historic
buildings by additions, reconstruction, alteration or maintenance involving
exterior color change; or
      (4)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory building
or structure subject to view from a public way.
   (B)   Within a primary area of an historic district.
      (1)   A change in walls and fences or the construction of walls and
fences along public ways; or
      (2)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration or maintenance involving exterior color change.
   (C)   Within the first phase of a two-phase establishment of an historic
district.
      (1)   The moving of any building;
      (2)   The demolition of any building; or
      (3)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory building
or structure subject to view from a public way.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.41 CERTIFICATE APPLICATION PROCESS.
   Application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be made in the office
of the Commission on forms provided by said Office. Detailed drawings, plans or
specifications are not required. However, to the extent reasonably required for
the Commission to make a decision, each application must be accompanied by
sketches, drawings, photographs, descriptions or other information showing the
proposed exterior alterations, additions, changes or new construction.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 156.42 STAFF AUTHORITY TO GRANT OR DENY CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   The staff of the Commission is authorized to grant or deny a
certificate of appropriateness for the following types of applications: paint
colors.
   (B)   The staff may not grant or deny a certificate of appropriateness for
the following:
      (1)   Demolishing a building;
      (2)   Moving a building;
      (3)   Constructing a new building; or
      (4)   Constructing an addition to a building.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 156.43 CRITERIA FOR CONSIDERING EFFECT OF ACTIONS ON HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The Commission, in considering the appropriateness of any
reconstruction, alteration, maintenance or moving of an historic building or
any part of or appurtenance to such building, including walls, fences, light
fixtures, steps, paving and signs, shall require that such work be done in a
manner which will preserve the historical and architectural character of the
building, structure or appurtenance.
   (B)   In considering historical and architectural character, the Commission
shall consider, among other things, the following:
      (1)   The purposes of this chapter;
      (2)   The historical and architectural value and significance of the
building, structure, site or appurtenance;
      (3)   The compatibility and significance of additions, alterations,
details, materials or other non- original elements which may be of a different
style and construction date than the original;
      (4)   The texture, material, color, style and detailing of the building,
structure, site or appurtenance;
      (5)   The continued preservation and protection of original or otherwise-
significant structures, materials and ornamentation;
      (6)   The relationship of buildings, structures, appurtenances or
architectural features similar to one within the same historic district
including, for primary areas, visual compatibility as defined in §
156.24(B) of this chapter; and
      (7)   The position of the building or structure in relation to the street
or public right-of-way and to other buildings and structures.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 156.44 APPROVAL OR DENIAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Commission may advise and make recommendations to the applicant
before acting on an application for a certificate of appropriateness.
   (B)   If an application for a certificate of appropriateness is approved by
the Commission, or if it is not acted on by the Commission within 30 days after
it is filed, then a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued. If the
certificate is issued, then the application shall be processed in the same
manner as applications for building or demolition permits required by the city
if any are processed. If no building or demolition permits are required, then
the applicant may proceed with the work authorized by the certificate.
   (C)   If the Commission denies an application for a certificate of
appropriateness within 30 days after it is filed, then the certificate may not
be issued. The Commission must state its reasons for the denial in writing and
must advise the applicant. An application which has been denied may not be
processed as an application for a building or demolition permit and does not
authorize any work by the applicant.
   (D)   The Commission may grant an extension of the 30-day limit if the
applicant agrees to it.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 156.45 DEMOLITIONS UPON DENIAL OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to preserve historic buildings which
are important to the education, culture, traditions and economic values of the
city and to afford the city, historical organizations and other interested
persons the opportunity to acquire or to arrange for the preservation of these
buildings. If a property owner demonstrates that an historic building is
incapable of earning an economic return on its value, as appraised by a
qualified real estate appraiser, and the Commission fails to approve the
issuance of a certificate of appropriateness, then the building may be
demolished.
   (B)   However, before a demolition permit is issued or the demolition
proceeds, the following requirements for notice must be met.
      (1)   Notice of the proposed demolition must be given for a period fixed
by the Commission which is based on the Commission’s classification on the
approved map, but not less than 60 days nor more than one year.
      (2)   Notice must be posted on the premises of the building proposed for
demolition in a location clearly visible from the street.
      (3)   Notice must be published in a newspaper of general local
circulation at least three times before demolition, with the first publication
not more than 15 days after the application for a permit to demolish is filed
and the final publication at least 15 days before the date of the permit.
   (C)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the notice period under this section. If the certificate of
appropriateness is approved, then a demolition permit shall be issued without
further delay and demolition may proceed.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer or otherwise, who violates any
provision of this chapter shall, for each offense, be subject to a fine as
follows:
      (1)   Not less than $10 nor more than $2,500 for demolition; and
      (2)   Not less than $10 nor more than $300 for all other offenses.
   (B)   Each day of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be a
separate offense.
   (C)   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative, not
exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-5-2020)
CHAPTER 157: URBAN FOREST GREENSCAPE
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Definitions
   
157.02   Establishment and organization of Commission
   
157.03   Duties and responsibilities of Commission
   
157.04   Duties of property owners
   
157.05   Public information and education
   
157.06   Emergency management; 24-hour response crews
   
157.07   Required licenses and permits
Policies and Restrictions
   
157.20   Protection of trees and flora
   
157.21   Public tree preservation and maintenance
   
157.22   Approved tree and flora species
   
157.23   Pruning and maintenance standards
   
157.24   Tree topping
   
157.25   Stump removal
   
157.26   Spacing restrictions
   
157.27   Proximity to utilities
Enforcement
   
157.40   Duty to enforce provisions
   
157.41   Interference with Commission unlawful
   
157.42   Review of Commission actions by Common Council
   
157.43   Dead or diseased flora on private property
 
   
157.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CITY. Any and all areas within the geographical boundaries set forth as the
City of Hartford City, Indiana.
   COMMISSION. The Urban Forest Greenscape Commission of the city, as the same
is established pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
   COUNCIL. The Common Council of the city.
   FLORA. All trees, shrubbery, ornamental grasses and other plants which grow
to a mature height of more than 12 inches, but expressly excluding weeds and
turf grasses of all types.
   PARK TREE or PARK TREES. All flora on lands designed as parks having
individual names and all other lands owned by the city, or to which the public
has free access as the public would for a park.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PLANTING STRIP. Any area of soil or grass located between
public sidewalks and curbs or streets.
   STREET TREE or STREET TREES. All flora on land lying between property lines
on either side of all streets, alleys, avenues and rights-of-way within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.010) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 157.02 ESTABLISHMENT AND ORGANIZATION OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. Pursuant to Res. 2009-16, adopted as amended on August
3, 2009, the Council established the Urban Forest Greenscape Commission of the
city, consisting of seven members.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.020)
   (B)   Terms of office.
      (1)   Res. 2009-16 provides that the Commission shall consist of seven
members, three of which shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city, three of
which shall be appointed by the Common Council of the city and one of which
shall be appointed by the City Parks Department. All members of the Commission
shall serve four-year terms, provided, however, that for the purpose of
ensuring that the terms of members in the Commission are staggered, the initial
members of the Commission shall serve terms as follows.
         (a)   Two of the initial members appointed by the Mayor of the city
and two of the initial members appointed by the Common Council of the city
shall serve terms of two years, expiring on December 31, 2011.
         (b)   One of the initial members appointed by the Mayor of the city,
one of the initial members appointed by the Common Council of the city and the
one initial member appointed by the City Parks Department shall serve terms of
four years, expiring on December 31, 2013.
      (2)   The appointees shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing
individual or entity, and any vacancies which arise in the membership of the
Commission shall be filled by the applicable appointing individual or entity
for the remainder of the applicable term.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.030)
   (C)   Compensation. All members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.040)
   (D)   Operation.
      (1)   The Commission shall choose its own officers, make its own rules
and regulations, which shall be consistent with its purpose, and keep records
of its proceedings.
      (2)   A majority of the members of the Commission shall be a quorum for
the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.060)
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 157.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall be responsible for reviewing and providing
recommendations for landscaping and green space for all property owned by the
city, including the maintenance and preservation thereof, and for making
monthly reports to the Council regarding said information and recommendations.
   (B)   It shall also be the responsibility of the Commission to study,
investigate, counsel and assist in the development of work plans for the City
Street Department, the City Parks Department and any equivalent or comparable
departments of the city in matters of the care, preservation, maintenance,
removal and planting of all flora on city properties.
   (C)   The Commission shall be required to do other acts in furtherance of
its purpose as may be required by the Council or Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.050) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 157.04 DUTIES OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   The owner of any private property in the city which borders or lies
adjacent to any public street, alley, avenue, right-of-way or park upon which
any flora may be standing shall prune and maintain the flora so that no
obstruction of view by vehicle or pedestrian exists and so that there shall be
a clear space of eight feet above any sidewalk surface and 15 feet above any
street surface.
   (B)   The Commission shall have the right to recommend the removal of signs
or sight triangles at intersections to the City Street Department.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.130) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.05 PUBLIC INFORMATION AND EDUCATION.
   (A)   It shall be a common goal of the Commission, the City Street
Department and the Council of the city to provide residents of the city with
accurate and up-to-date arboricultural and horticultural educational materials
to assist them with the success of this chapter.
   (B)   Information pertaining to this chapter and the locations of
educational materials related to this chapter may be obtained by the public
from the Mayor of the city or the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.220) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 157.06 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; 24- HOUR RESPONSE CREWS.
   The Commission shall work with the City Street Department, the City Police
Department and the City Fire Department to develop and maintain a 24-hour
response of contract tree crews to respond to and assist the City Street
Department in the event that storm or disaster restoration becomes necessary.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.230) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 157.07 REQUIRED LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   License and fee to alter or remove.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the
business or occupation of pruning, treating or removing any street tree, park
tree or other flora on public lands within the city without first applying for
and procuring a license from the city.
      (2)   The license fee shall be $20 and must be paid annually, in advance
and payable to the city. The license shall be good for the 12 consecutive
months immediately following payment.
      (3)   Before any license shall be issued by the city, the applicant must
show evidence of possessing liability insurance, with minimum amounts
determined to be acceptable by the Board of Public Works for bodily injury and
property damage, indemnifying the city or any person injured or damage
resulting from the pursuit of the endeavors as herein described.
   (B)   Permit to plant.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant any flora on or in
part of a public street, alley, avenue, right-of-way, right-of-way planting
strip, park or any other public place within the city without the approval of
the Commission and the city and without first applying for and procuring a
“flora encroachment permit.”
      (2)   There shall be no fee charged to residents for a flora encroachment
permit, but the species and location of any and all flora must be approved
prior to the issuance of any permit.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.180) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
157.99
POLICIES AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 157.20 PROTECTION OF TREES AND FLORA.
   (A)   In order to maintain the overall urban forest within the city,
reasonable efforts shall be made to replace trees which are removed and protect
quality trees and flora which are endangered. Reasonable efforts shall be made
to ensure that trees removed upon recommendation of the Commission or by
natural causes shall be replaced at locations within the urban forest of the
city on a one-for-one basis within one year. The Commission shall recommend the
location and species of any replacement tree or flora.
   (B)   Trees and flora of desirable species and good health shall be
protected as much as possible from damage during construction, sidewalk repair,
curb and street repair, utility work both above and below ground and other
similar activities. The zone of protection for trees and flora shall include
the ground beneath the canopy of the trees or flora.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.160) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 157.21 PUBLIC TREE PRESERVATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The City Street Department shall have the right to plant, prune,
maintain and remove flora within the lines of any and all streets, alleys,
avenues, rights- of-way, right-of-way planting strips and public lands of the
city as may be necessary to ensure public safety, promote quality of life for
all residents and preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of all public
lands of the city.
   (B)   The Commission may recommend to the City Street Department the removal
of any flora, tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition, which is
infected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest or which, by reason of
its nature, is injurious to sewers, overhead utility lines, gas lines or water
lines.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.100) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 157.22 APPROVED TREE AND FLORA SPECIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall assist the City Street Department, the City Parks
Department and any equivalent or comparable departments of the city in
developing and maintaining a list of approved tree species for planting on
public lands within the city. A list of tree species which shall not be
approved for planting shall also be created. The lists described in this
section shall be approved by the Mayor of the city.
   (B)   The list of approved trees shall include three size classes based on
mature height, which classes shall be as follows:
      (1)   Small: Under 20 feet;
      (2)   Medium: 20 to 40 feet; and
      (3)   Large: Over 40 feet.
   (C)   Efforts will be made to ensure a diversity of tree species. Trees with
widespread disease or other known problems shall be excluded from
consideration.
   (D)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this section to the contrary, no
individual or particular tree or plant which is planted and growing in the city
as of the date of this chapter shall be subject to the terms or requirements of
this section. Questions from the public regarding the lists described in this
section may be directed to the Mayor or the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.070) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.23 PRUNING AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   All tree pruning and maintenance on the public lands of the city shall
conform to the ANSI A300 standards for tree care operations. A copy of the ANSI
A300 standards shall be available to all city employees and as a matter of
public record for all residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.110) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 157.24 TREE TOPPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top a street tree, park tree or any other tree on public property
in the city. To TOP a tree shall mean the severe cutting back of limbs within
the tree’s crown to stubs larger than three inches in diameter to such a degree
so as to remove the normal canopy of the tree and disfigure the tree. Crown
reduction by a certified arborist may be substituted where appropriate.
   (B)   Where other practices are impractical, trees which are severely
damaged by storms or other causes and trees under utility wires or other
obstructions may be exempted from this section.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Mayor of the city determines
that any tree poses a risk to the safety of the public or to life or property
as a result of damage it has suffered or by reason of its physical condition,
then the tree may be altered in any form or fashion which is deemed necessary
by the Mayor in the Mayor’s sole and absolute discretion.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.120) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.25 STUMP REMOVAL.
   All stumps of street trees and park trees shall be removed below the surface
of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface
of the ground.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.150) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.26 SPACING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No flora shall be planted in a right-of-way planting strip with a
width of less than 48 inches. A permit issued by the City Street Department
shall be required for the planting of any flora within any right- of-way
planting strip greater than 48 inches in width.
   (B)   There shall be no fee charged to residents for the permit, but the
species, spacing and location of any and all flora must be approved prior to
the issuance of any permit.
   (C)   No flora shall be planted within 30 feet of any street corner as
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines.
   (D)   No flora shall be planted within ten feet of any fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.080) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.27 PROXIMITY TO UTILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   No flora shall be planted under or within ten feet of either
side of any overhead utility wire.
      (2)   No flora shall be planted within eight feet of any underground
utility fixture on the maintenance door side of the fixture.
      (3)   Selected flora species approved only by the local electric utility
arborist or representative will be acceptable in these areas.
   (B)   (1)   Tree limbs which grow near overhead utility lines, cables and
conductors shall be maintained by the applicable utility company or its agents.
      (2)   A utility tree-trimming policy shall be reviewed by any affected
utility company and the Commission once per calendar year, with the Commission
making a report of all policies to the Council or Mayor as soon as practicable
following the Commission’s review of the policy or policies with the applicable
utility.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.090) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
157.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.40 DUTY TO ENFORCE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Street Department to oversee and
enforce all sections pertaining to street trees and private property flora
issues as set forth within this chapter.
   (B)   It shall also be the duty of the City Street Department to oversee and
enforce all sections pertaining to park trees and flora issues on other lands
owned by the city as set forth within this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.190) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 157.41 INTERFERENCE WITH COMMISSION UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere
with the Commission or its agents while the Commission or its agents are acting
as authorized in and pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, city employees or agents acting at the
direction or on behalf of the city or any city department shall not be
considered a “person” subject to this section.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.170) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.42 REVIEW OF COMMISSION ACTIONS BY COMMON COUNCIL.
   The Council of the city shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Commission. Any person may appeal any ruling or order of the
Commission to the Council of the city, which may hear the matter and make a
final decision.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.200) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 157.43 DEAD OR DISEASED FLORA ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Street Department shall have the right to cause the
removal of any dead or diseased flora on private property within the city when
such flora constitutes a hazard to the safety of the public or to life or
property, or when it harbors insects or disease which constitutes a potential
threat to other flora within the city.
      (2)   The Commission shall have the right to recommend to the City Street
Department the removal of flora which meets the standards set forth in this
division (A).
   (B)   The City Street Department shall notify the relevant property owner of
record or the existing resident of the property on which the flora conditions
exist in writing. Removal shall be done by the relevant owner of record and at
the owner’s own expense within 60 days after service of the notice from the
City Street Department.
   (C)   In the event of failure of the relevant owner to comply with said
provisions, the City Street Department shall have the authority to remove the
flora, charge the cost of removal to the relevant property owner and pursue
legal collection and lien remedies, as applicable, to collect the cost.
   (D)   In lieu of the foregoing remedies available to the city, at the city’s
sole and absolute discretion, the city may elect to consider any dead or
diseased flora located on private property within the city, when such flora
constitutes a hazard to the safety of the public or to life or property, or
when it harbors insects or disease which constitutes a potential threat to
other flora within the city, to be “weeds and rank vegetation” subject to the
terms and provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.04 and
94.99 of this code, including all terms and provisions related to the cost of
removal, administrative fees and enforcement through the use of property liens.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.140) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, persons, firm, group, corporation, organization or other
entity which violates any of the terms, restrictions or provisions of this
chapter may be ticketed by an officer of the City Police Department, and
thereafter shall be required to pay a civil fine in a sum not to exceed $100
for each violation. A separate violation shall be deemed to be committed on
each day during or on which a violation of this chapter occurs or continues.
   (B)   The civil fine shall be paid through the City Ordinance Violations
Bureau established pursuant to Ch. 32 of this code, a copy of which is located
at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. Accordingly, the procedures, timing
and requirements related to the civil fine or fines and the payment thereof
shall be consistent with the procedures, timing and requirements set forth in
Ch. 32. In particular, the procedures associated with the prosecution of
violations of this chapter shall be consistent with those procedures described
in §§
32.05 and
32.06 of this code.
   (C)   The penalties described in this section shall be in addition to any
other costs, expenses or penalties incurred by any property owner in connection
with the enforcement of this chapter by the city. For example, any and all
costs and expenses incurred by a property owner pursuant to the city’s
requirement that the property owner remove dead or diseased flora from the
property owner’s private property in accordance with §
157.43 of this chapter shall be in addition to the civil fine set forth in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 18.04.210) (Ord. 2009-11, passed 8-3-2009)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CONTRACTS, FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
      
III.   STREETS, PUBLIC PROPERTY AND REAL ESTATE
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: CONTRACTS, FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Passed Date Description
Ord./   Passed
Res.    Date     Description
No.
12      - -      Franchise with Western Telephone
193     3-9-1910 Hartford City Lighting Company
194     5-5-1910 Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company
234     8-18-    Muncie Electric Light Company
        1916
305     3-20-    State Highway Commission—SR #3
        1928
306     3-20-    State Highway Commission
        1930
409     10-4-    Street light agreement
        1937
440     5-3-1943 Street light agreement
485     12-13-   Contract with Indiana and Michigan
        1950
674     2-1-1965 Cable television contract with Advanced Communications, Inc.
718     5-8-1967 Cable television contract with Sound Vision, Inc.
762     5-5-1969 Cable television contract with Hartford City Cable TV, Inc.
858-1/2 6-4-1973 Cable television contract with Hartford City Cable TV, Inc.
935     10-13-   Cable television contract with Hartford City Cable TV, Inc.
        1975     (amends Ord. 762)
976     7-10-    Cable television contract with Hartford City Cable TV, Inc.
        1978     (amends Ord. 935)
982     8-28-    Industrial revenue bond for Hartford Concrete Products, Inc.
        1978
1049    6-4-1984 Franchise with Telecommunications, Inc.
1103    12-12-   Economic development revenue bond for Hartford Concrete
        1985     Products, Inc.
1163    7-6-1987 Joint contractual agreement with Blackford Humane Society
R. 87-  8-3-1987 Franchise with TCI of Indiana, Inc.
16
R. 88-  2-1-1988 Statement of benefits for Spurgen’s
02
R. 88-  2-10-    Industrial revenue bond for Hartford Concrete Products, Inc.
05      1988
1221    12-5-    Consent to change of control of franchise with TCI of Indiana,
        1988     Inc.
R. 89-  7-31-    Inducement resolution for BRC Rubber Group, Inc.
07      1989
1270    10-30-   Economic development revenue bonds for BRC Rubber Group, Inc.
        1989
R. 90-  5-7-1990 Statement of benefits for Overhead Door Corp.
09
R. 90-  11-5-    Tax abatement for Visy Recycle, Inc.
17      1990
R. 91-  5-6-1991 Statement of benefits for Overhead Door Corp.
07
R.      - -1993  Statement of benefits for Key Plastics
1993-13
R.      3-1-1993 Statement of benefits for Premix/E.M.S., Inc.
1993-02
R.      5-3-1993 Compliance with statement of benefits for Premix/E.M.S., Inc.
1993-08
R.      5-3-1993 Statement of benefits for Sinclair Glass, a division of
1993-09          Middletown Enterprises
R. -    6-7-1993 Statement of benefits for Hartford Concrete
R.      7-6-1993 Statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
1993-15
R.      11-1-    Statement of benefits for Overhead Door Corp.
1993-24 1993
R.      12-6-    Statement of benefits for Dacra Glass Co.
1993-29 1993
R.      2-7-1994 Statement of benefits for Premix/E.M.S., Inc.
1994-02
R.      3-7-1994 Statement of benefits for Visy Recycle
1994-05
R.      4-4-1994 Compliance with statement of benefits for Visy Recycle, Inc.
1994-08
R.      4-4-1994 Statement of benefits for Ken’s Bandag, Inc.
1994-10
R.      4-4-1994 Statement of benefits for Sparton Engineered Products, Inc.
1994-11
R.      6-6-1994 Statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing
1994-16          Co.
R.      6-6-1994 Statement of benefits for BRC Rubber Group, Inc.
1994-17
R.      6-6-1994 Statement of benefits for Hartford Concrete Products, Inc.
1994-18
R.      7-5-1994 Statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1994-20
R.      7-18-    Statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co., Inc.
1994-23 1994
R.      9-6-1994 Statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
1994-29
R.      10-3-    Statement of benefits for Hartford Metal Products, Inc.
1994-37 1994
R.      12-5-    Statement of benefits for Bailey Corp.
1994-43 1994
R.      2-6-1995 Statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co., Inc.
1995-07
R.      2-28-    Statement of benefits for Hartford Packing Co., Inc.
1995-09 1995
R.      4-3-1995 Statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co., Inc.
1995-10
R.      4-3-1995 Statement of benefits for Overhead Door Corp.
1995-11
R.      4-3-1995 Compliance with statement of benefits for Bailey Corp.
1995-12
R.      4-3-1995 Compliance with statement of benefits for Bailey Corp.
1995-13
R.      4-3-1995 Compliance with statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
1995-14
R.      4-3-1995 Statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
1995-15
R.      5-1-1995 Compliance with statement of benefits for Sparton Engineered
1995-16          Products, Inc.
R.      5-1-1995 Statement of benefits for Harold Precision Products Co., Inc.
1995-17
R.      5-1-1995 Compliance with statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
1995-18
R.      6-5-1995 Compliance with statement of benefits for Visy Recycle, Inc.
1995-20
R.      6-5-1995 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
1995-21          Manufacturing Co., Inc.
R.      6-5-1995 Statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing
1995-22          Co.
R. 95-  6-28-    Tax deduction for Visy Recycle, Inc.
24      1995
R.      7-5-1995 Compliance with statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
1995-25
R.      7-5-1995 Statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
1995-26
R.      11-13-   Statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co., Inc.
1995-35 1995
R.      4-1-1996 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1996-05          Inc.
R.      5-6-1996 Compliance with statement of benefits for Visy Paper (IN),
1996-07          Inc.
R.      5-6-1996 Compliance with statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
1996-08
R.      6-3-1996 Compliance with statement of benefits for Sparton Engineered
1996-09          Products, Inc.
R.      6-3-1996 Granting cable franchise extension for TCI of Indiana, Inc.
1996-11
R.      6-3-1996 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
1996-13          Manufacturing Co.
R.      7-1-1996 Compliance with Statement of benefits for Visy Paper (IN),
1996-14          Inc.
R.      7-1-1996 Compliance with statement of benefits for BRC Rubber Group
1996-15
R.      7-1-1996 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1996-16          Inc.
R.      7-1-1996 Statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1996-19
R.      7-1-1996 Rate change for cable service; TCI of Indiana, Inc.
1996-21
R.      9-25-    Cable franchise extension for TCI of Indiana, Inc. (amends
1996-26 1996     Res. 1996-11)
R.      10-7-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1996-27 1996     Inc.
R.      12-30-   Cable franchise extension for TCI of Indiana, Inc. (amends
1996-36 1996     Res. 1996-26)
R.      2-3-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1997-07          Inc.
R.      2-3-1997 Statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co., Inc.
1997-08
R.      2-3-1997 Statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co., Inc.
1997-09
R.      2-5-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1997-06          Inc.
R.      5-5-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
1997-13
R.      5-5-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
1997-14          Manufacturing Co.
R.      5-5-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
1997-15          Manufacturing Co.
R.      5-5-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
1997-16          Manufacturing Co.
R.      5-5-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
1997-17          Manufacturing Co.
R.      5-5-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
1997-18          Manufacturing Co.
R.      5-5-1997 Statement of benefits for Hartford Packing Co., Inc.
1997-20
R.      6-2-1997 Statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing
1997-19          Co.
R.      6-2-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Packing
1997-21          Co., Inc.
R.      6-2-1997 Statement of benefits for Hartford Packing Co., Inc.
1997-27
R.      6-2-1997 Statement of benefits for Hartford Packing Co., Inc.
1997-28
R.      6-2-1997 Statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1997-29
R.      6-2-1997 Statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1997-30
R.      6-2-1997 Statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1997-31
R.      6-2-1997 Statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1997-32
R.      6-2-1997 Statement of benefits for Harold Precision Products, Inc.
1997-33
R.      6-2-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
1997-35          Products, Inc.
R.      6-2-1997 Cable franchise extension for TCI of Indiana, Inc. (amends
1997-36          Res. 1996-36)
R.      7-7-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1997-37          Inc.
R.      7-7-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1997-38          Inc.
R.      7-7-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1997-39          Inc.
R.      7-7-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Visy Paper, Inc.
1997-40
R.      7-7-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Visy Paper Inc.
1997-41
R. 97-  7-7-1997 Waiving statement of benefits requirement for Key Plastics,
42               Inc.
R.      7-7-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1997-43
R.      7-7-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1997-44
R.      7-7-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1997-45
R.      7-7-1997 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1997-47          Inc.
R.      7-7-1997 Statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co., Inc.
1997-49
R.      8-4-1997 Setting hearing for statement of benefits waiver for Hartford
1997-48          Class Co.
R.      8-18-    Waiving statement of benefits requirement for Hartford Glass
1997-46 1997     Co., Inc.
R.      8-18-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1997-50 1997     Inc.
R.      8-18-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1997-51 1997
R.      8-25-    Cable franchise extension for TCI of Indiana, Inc. (amends
1997-52 1997     Res. 1996-36)
R.      2-2-1998 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1998-01          Inc.
R.      3-2-1998 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
1998-02          Products, Inc.
R.      5-4-1998 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
1998-11          Manufacturing
R.      5-4-1998 Statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing
1998-12
R.      5-4-1998 Compliance with statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
1998-13
R.      6-1-1998 Statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1998-14
R.      6-1-1998 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1998-15
R.      6-1-1998 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Packing
1998-16          Co., Inc.
R.      6-1-1998 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
1998-17          Products, Inc.
R.      7-6-1998 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1998-18          Inc.
R.      7-6-1998 Compliance with statement of benefits for Visy Paper, Inc.
1998-19
R.      3-1-1999 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1999-02          Inc.
R.      3-1-1999 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
1999-03          Products, Inc.
R.      4-5-1999 Wastewater laboratory facilities use for third party testing
1999-05
R.      5-3-1999 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
1999-11          Manufacturing, Inc.
R.      5-3-1999 Statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing,
1999-12          Inc.
R.      5-3-1999 Compliance with statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
1999-13
R.      6-7-1999 Statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1999-17
R.      6-7-1999 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
1999-18          Products, Inc.
R.      7-6-1999 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
1999-19          Inc.
R.      7-6-1999 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
1999-20
R.      7-6-1999 Compliance with statement of benefits for Visy Paper, Inc.
1999-21
R.      9-7-1999 Statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co., Inc.
1999-30
R.      12-6-    Statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co., Inc.
1999-35 1999
R.      2-7-2000 Force main maintenance and wastewater fee adjustment for
2000-02          Blackford High School
R.      2-7-2000 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2000-04          Inc.
R.      3-6-2000 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2000-05          Products, Inc.
R.      3-6-2000 Compliance with statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
2000-06
R.      5-1-2000 Statement of benefits for Chesapeake Limited Partnership
2000-09
R.      6-5-2000 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2000-13          Inc.
R.      6-5-2000 Compliance with Statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2000-14          Products, Inc.
R.      6-5-2000 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2000-15          LLC
R.      6-5-2000 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
2000-16          Manufacturing
R.      6-5-2000 Statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing
2000-17
R.      9-5-2000 Rent payments from Water Utility and Wastewater Treatment
2000-29          Utility to General Fund
R.      12-4-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2000-39 2000     Products Co., Inc.
R.      2-5-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2001-01          Products, Inc.
R.      3-5-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2001-05          Inc.
R.      3-5-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2001-06          Inc.
R.      4-2-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
2001-08          Manufacturing
R.      4-2-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
2001-09          Manufacturing
R.      4-2-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, LLC
2001-11
R.      5-7-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2001-12          Products, Inc.
R.      5-7-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2001-13          Products, Inc.
R.      5-7-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2001-14          LLC
R.      5-7-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Deslauriers, Inc.
2001-15
R.      5-7-2001 Statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and Wire, Inc.
2001-16
R.      6-4-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2001-21          Inc.
R.      8-6-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2001-25          Products, Inc.
R.      8-6-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Concrete
2001-26          Products, Inc.
R.      8-6-2001 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
2001-27
R.      8-6-2001 Bond issuance to finance loan to Hartford Concrete Products,
2001-28          Inc. for project
R. -    10-17-   Broadcast of government access channel through Insight
        2001     Communications
R.      12-3-    Execution of interlocal agreement regarding Commissioners
2001-37 2001     Drain, Common Council approval
R.      1-7-2002 Adopting Keystone Consulting Services, Inc. financial software
2002-02          systems
R.      2-4-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2002-03          Products, Inc.
R.      2-4-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for William Reed, L.P.
2002-05
R.      2-4-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for William Reed, L.P.
2002-06
R.      3-8-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2002-09          Inc.
R.      3-8-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2002-10          Products, Inc.
R.      3-8-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2002-11          LLC
R.      4-1-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
2002-15          Manufacturing Co.
R.      4-1-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
2002-16          Manufacturing Co.
R.      4-1-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and
2002-17          Manufacturing Co.
R.      4-1-2002 Statement of benefits for Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing
2002-18          Co.
R.      5-6-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2002-20          Products, Inc.
R.      6-3-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision,
2002-21          Inc.
R.      6-3-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2002-22          Inc.
R.      7-1-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2002-26          LLC
R.      7-1-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
2002-27
R.      7-1-2002 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
2002-28
R.      3-3-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2003-01          Products, Inc.
R.      4-7-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2003-02          Inc.
R.      4-7-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2003-03          Inc.
R.      4-7-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2003-04          Inc.
R.      4-7-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2003-05          Inc.
R.
2003-   6-2-2004 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
06B
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2003-07
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2003-08
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2003-09
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
2003-10
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
2003-11
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2003-12          Products, Inc.
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2003-13          Products, Inc.
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2003-14          LLC
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2003-15          Products, Inc.
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass
2003-16          Company, Inc.
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2003-17          Inc.
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2003-18          Inc.
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2003-19          Inc.
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2003-20          Inc.
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2003-21          Inc.
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2003-22          Inc.
R.      6-2-2003 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2003-23          Wire, Inc.
R.      2-2-2004 Tax abatement for Quality Housing Development, Inc.
2004-05
R.      3-1-2004 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Concrete
2004-06
R.      3-1-2004 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co,
2004-10          Inc.
R.      3-1-2004 Statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co., Inc.
2004-11
R.      3-1-2004 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2004-12          Inc.
R.      3-1-2004 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass
2004-13
R. -    4-19-    Authorizing Mayor to sign maintenance agreement with Taylored
        2004     Systems, Inc.
R.      5-3-2004 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2004-15
R.      5-3-2004 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2004-16
R.      6-7-2004 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2004-18          Products, Inc.
R.      6-7-2004 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2004-19          LLC
R.      6-7-2004 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Concrete
2004-20          Products, Inc.
R.      6-7-2004 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2004-21          Inc.
R.      7-6-2004 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
2004-23
R.      10-4-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2004-30 2004     Products, Inc.
R.      10-4-    Statement of benefits for Printer’s Express, Inc.
2004-32 2004
R.      10-4-    Tax abatement for Quality Housing Development, Inc.
2004-34 2004
R. -    10-18-   Third amendment to lease form approval with Hartford City
        2004     Municipal Building Corp.
R. -    11-1-    Authorizing execution of third amendment to lease with
        2004     Hartford City and Municipal Building Corp.
R.      12-6-    Statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
2004-44 2004
R.      2-7-2005 Compliance with statement for benefits for William Reed, L.P.
2005-02
R.      2-7-2005 Statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and Wire, Inc.
2005-03
R.      3-7-2005 Compliance with statement of benefits from Harold Precision
2005-06          Products, Inc.
R.      3-7-2005 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Concrete
2005-08          Products, Inc.
R.      3-7-2005 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2005-09          Inc.
R.      4-4-2005 Compliance with statement of benefits for William Reed, L.P.
2005-11
R.      5-2-2005 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2005-13
R.      5-2-2005 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2005-14
R.      6-6-2005 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2005-15          Inc.
R.      6-6-2005 Compliance with statement of benefits for Printer’s Express,
2005-16          Inc.
R.      6-6-2005 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2005-17          Products, Inc.
R.      6-6-2005 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Concrete
2005-18          Products, Inc.
R.      6-6-2005 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2005-19          Products, Inc.
R.      6-6-2005 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
2005-20
R.      6-6-2005 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2005-21          LLC
R.      7-5-2005 Statement of benefits for International Paper Co.
2005-22
R.      7-5-2005 Statement of benefits for Woodpointe, Inc.
2005-23
R.      7-5-2005 Statement of benefits for KOA Properties, LLC
2005-24
R.      10-3-    Statement of benefits for New Venture Holdings, LLC
2005-28 2005
R.      3-6-2006 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2006-04          Products, Inc.
R.      4-3-2006 Statement of benefits for Hartford Energy, LLC
2006-09
R.      4-3-2006 Statement of benefits for Hartford Energy, LLC
2006-10
R.      4-3-2006 Statement of benefits for International Paper
2006-11
R.      4-3-2006 Statement of benefits for FF & L Realty, Inc.
2006-12
R.      5-1-2006 Statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and Wire, Inc.
2006-13
R.      6-5-2006 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2006-15
R.      6-5-2006 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2006-16
R.      6-5-2006 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2006-17          Products, Inc.
R.      6-5-2006 Compliance with statement of benefits for Printers Express,
2006-18          Inc.
R.      6-5-2006 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Concrete
2006-19          Products, Inc.
R.      6-5-2006 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2006-20          Inc.
R.      6-5-2006 Compliance with statement of benefits for KOA Properties, LLC
2006-21
R.      6-5-2006 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2006-22          Products, Inc.
R.      6-5-2006 Compliance with statement of benefits for Woodpointe, Inc.
2006-23
R.      6-5-2006 Compliance with statement of benefits for Cadence Innovation,
2006-25          LLC
R.      6-5-2006 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2006-26          LLC
R.      7-3-2006 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, Inc.
2006-27
R.      7-3-2006 Statement of benefits for Cadence Innovation, LLC
2006-28
R.      8-7-2006 Statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper, LLC
2006-29
R.      8-9-2006 Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics, Inc.
2006-32
2006-13 10-2-    Bond issuance
        2006
R.      4-2-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits from Cadence Innovation,
2007-02          LLC
R.      5-7-2007 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2007-04
R.      5-7-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2007-05
R.      5-7-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2007-06          Wire, Inc.
R.      6-4-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits for Printer’s Express,
2007-08          Inc.
R.      6-4-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2007-09          Inc.
R.      6-4-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits for William Reed, L.P.
2007-10
R.      6-4-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2007-11          Products, Inc.
R.      6-4-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits for International Paper
2007-12          Company
R.      6-4-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Metal
2007-13          Products, Inc.
R.      6-4-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits for Woodpointe, Inc.
2007-14
R.      7-2-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Concrete
2007-15          Products, Inc.
R.      7-2-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2007-16          LLC
R.      7-2-2007 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, LLC
2007-17
R.      2-4-2008 Statement of benefits for International Paper Co.
2008-01
R.      2-4-2008 Statement of benefits for International Paper Co.
2008-02
R.      3-3-2008 Statement of benefits for Hartford Iron & Metal, Inc.
2008-04
R.      4-7-2008 Statement of benefits for Innovative Solutions of North
2008-06          America, LLC
R.      5-5-2008 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2008-07
R.      5-5-2008 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2008-08
R.      5-5-2008 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2008-10          Wire, Inc.
R.      5-5-2008 Statement of benefits for Cadence Innovation, LLC
2008-11
R.      5-5-2008 Compliance with statement of benefits for Cadence Innovation,
2008-12          LLC
R.      6-2-2008 Compliance with statement of benefits for Printer’s Express
2008-19
R.      7-7-2008 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2008-14          Inc.
R.      7-7-2008 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2008-22          LLC
R.      7-7-2008 Statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper, LLC
2008-23
R.      8-4-2008 Compliance with statement of benefits for International Paper
2008-13          Co.
R.      8-4-2008 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2008-15          Products, Inc.
R.      8-4-2008 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, LLC
2008-18
R.      8-4-2008 Compliance with statement of benefits for Woodpointe, Inc.
2008-20
R.      9-2-2008 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Concrete
2008-21          Products, Inc.
R.      4-20-    Approving late application for deduction for Petoskey Plastics
2009-03 2009
R.      5-4-2009 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2009-04
R.      5-4-2009 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2009-05
R.      6-1-2009 Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2009-07
R.      6-1-2009 Compliance with statement of benefits for Printers Express,
2009-08          Inc.
R.      6-1-2009 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2009-09          Products, Inc.
R.      6-1-2009 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2009-10          LLC
R.      6-1-2009 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2009-11          Inc.
R.      6-1-2009 Compliance with statement of benefits for Woodpointe, Inc.
2009-13
R.      6-1-2009 Compliance with statement of benefits for KOA Properties, LLC
2009-14
R.      6-1-2009 Compliance with statement of benefits for Oldcastle Precast,
2009-17          Inc.
R.      6-1-2009 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2009-18          Wire, Inc.
R.      7-6-2009 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, LLC
2009-12
R.      11-2-    Interlocal agreement for deed and tax certificate transfers,
2009-26 2009     Common Council approval
R.      11-16-   Interlocal agreement for deed and tax certificate transfers,
2009-25 2009     Board of Public Works and Safety approval
R.      2-1-2010 Interlocal agreement for tax certificate transfers, Board of
2010-02          Public Works and Safety approval
R.      2-1-2010 Interlocal agreement for tax certificate transfers, Common
2010-03          Council approval
R.      4-5-2010 Statement of benefits for Middletown Enterprises, Inc., D/B/
2010-04          A Sinclair Glass
R.      5-3-2010 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2010-06
R.      5-3-2010 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2010-07
R.      6-7-2010 Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2010-08
R.      6-7-2010 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Paper
2010-10
R.      6-7-2010 Compliance with statement of benefits for Printers Express,
2010-11          Inc.
R.      6-7-2010 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2010-12          Products, Inc.
R.      6-7-2010 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2010-13          Inc.
R.      6-7-2010 Compliance with statement of benefits for Oldcastle Precast,
2010-14          Inc.
R.      6-7-2010 Compliance with statement of benefits for Key Plastics, LLC
2010-15
R.      6-7-2010 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2010-16          Wire, Inc.
R.      6-7-2010 Compliance with statement of benefits for KOA Properties, LLC
2010-17
R.      6-7-2010 Compliance with statement of benefits for Woodpointe, Inc.
2010-18
R.      7-6-2010 Statement of benefits for Key Plastics, LLC
2010-20
R.      4-4-2011 Statement of benefits for Quality Pallet
2011-01
R.      5-2-2011 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2011-02
R.      5-2-2011 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2011-03
R.
2011-   6-6-2011 Statement of benefits for 4 Faith, LLC
04B
R.      6-6-2011 Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2011-05
R.      6-6-2011 Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2011-06
R.      6-6-2011 Compliance with statement of benefits for Harold Precision
2011-07          Products, Inc.
R.      6-6-2011 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2011-08          Wire, Inc.
R.      6-6-2011 Compliance with statement of benefits for KOA Properties, LLC
2011-09
R.      6-6-2011 Compliance with statement of benefits for Woodpointe, Inc.
2011-10
R.      6-6-2011 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2011-11          LLC
R.      6-6-2011 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Glass Co.,
2011-13          Inc.
R.      6-6-2011 Compliance with statement of benefits for Middletown
2011-16          Enterprises, Inc.
R.      8-1-2011 Compliance with statement of benefits for William Reed, L.P.
2011-18
R.      11-7-    Statement of benefits for Hartford Iron and Metal
2011-24 2011
R.      3-5-2012 Statement of benefits for M & J Property, LLC
2012-03
R.      3-5-2012 Statement of benefits for M & J Property, LLC
2012-04
R.      4-2-2012 Compliance with statement of benefits for 4 Faith, LLC
2012-06
R.      5-7-2012 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2012-10
R.      5-7-2012 Compliance with statement of benefits 3M Company
2012-11
R.      6-4-2012 Compliance with statement of benefits for Middletown
2012-09          Enterprises, Inc.
R.      6-4-2012 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Iron and
2012-12          Metal, Inc.
R.      6-4-2012 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City
2012-14          Quality Pallet, LLC
R.      6-4-2012 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2012-15          Wire, Inc.
R.      6-4-2012 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2012-16          LLC
R.      6-4-2012 Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2012-17
R.      6-4-2012 Statement of benefits for BRC Rubber and Plastics, Inc.
2012-18
R.      6-4-2012 Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics, Inc.
2012-19
R.      6-4-2012 Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics, Inc.
2012-20
R.      6-4-2012 Compliance with statement of benefits for William Reed, L.P.
2012-21
R.      6-4-2012 Statement of benefits for Specialty T, LLC
2012-25
R.      7-2-2012 Compliance with statement of benefits for Printer’s Express
2012-13
R.      8-6-2012 Statement of benefits for BRC Rubber and Plastics, Inc.
2012-26
R.      10-1-    Statement of benefits for Villages at Van Cleve, L.P.
2012-31 2012
R.      10-4-    Statement of benefits for BRC Rubber and Plastics, Inc.
2012-32 2012
R.      5-6-2013 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2013-03
R.      5-6-2013 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2013-04
R.      7-1-2013 Compliance with statement of benefits for Middletown
2013-09          Enterprises, Inc.
R.      7-1-2013 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City
2013-10          Quality Pallet, LLC
R.      7-1-2013 Compliance with statement of benefits for 4 Faith, LLC
2013-11
R.      7-1-2013 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper
2013-13
R.      7-1-2013 Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2013-14
R.      7-1-2013 Compliance with statement of benefits for BRC Rubber and
2013-15          Plastics, Inc.
R.      7-1-2013 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Iron and
2013-16          Metal, Inc.
R.      7-1-2013 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2013-17          Wire, Inc.
R.      7-1-2013 Compliance with statement of benefits for Specialty T, LLC
2013-18
R.      7-1-2013 Statement of benefits for Specialty T, LLC
2013-19
R.      8-5-2013 Compliance with statement of benefits for Printer’s Express
2013-12
R.      8-5-2013 Compliance with statement of benefits for J & M Bowling, Inc.
2013-20
R.      10-7-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Village at Van
2013-24 2013     Cleve. L.P.
R.      12-2-    Statement of benefits for Reflective Industries
2013-26 2013
R.      12-2-    Statement of benefits for Reflective Industries
2013-27 2013
R.      12-2-    Statement of benefits for NJT Enterprises, LLC
2013-28 2013
R.      4-7-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for NJT Enterprises, LLC
2014-05
R.      4-7-2014 Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2014-06
R.      5-5-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for BRC Rubber and
2014-07          Plastics, Inc.
R.      5-5-2014 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2014-08
R.      5-5-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2014-09
R.      5-5-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for J & M Bowling, Inc.
2014-12
R.      5-5-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for J & M Bowling, Inc.
2014-13
R.      6-2-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for Middletown
2014-10          Enterprises, Inc.
R.      6-2-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for Reflective
2014-15          Industries, LLC
R.      6-2-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for Specialty T, LLC
2014-16
R.      6-2-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2014-17          LLC
R.      6-2-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2014-18          Wire, Inc.
R.      6-2-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for Printer’s Express
2014-19
R.      6-2-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Iron and
2014-20          Metal, Inc.
R.      6-2-2014 Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2014-21
R.      10-6-    Statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper, LLC
2014-25 2014
R.      3-2-2015 Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2015-03
R.      4-6-2015 Compliance with statement of benefits for NJT Enterprises, LLC
2015-05
R.      5-4-2015 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2015-06
R.      5-4-2015 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2015-07
R.      5-4-2015 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Iron and
2015-08          Metal
R.      6-1-2015 Compliance with statement of benefits for Middletown
2015-09          Enterprises, Inc.
R.      6-1-2015 Compliance with statement of benefits for J & M Bowling
2015-10
R.      6-1-2015 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Paper,
2015-11          LLC
R.      6-1-2015 Compliance with statement of benefits for Reflective
2015-13          Industries, LLC
R.      6-1-2015 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2015-15          Wire, Inc.
R.      6-1-2015 Compliance with statement of benefits for Specialty T, LLC
2015-16
R.      6-1-2015 Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2015-17
R.      7-6-2015 Statement of Benefits for Tru-Form Steel and Wire, Inc.
2015-14
R.      7-6-2015 Compliance with statement of benefits for BRC Rubber and
2015-18          Plastics, Inc.
R.      8-3-2015 Compliance with statement of benefits for Villages at Van
2015-12          Cleve, L.P.
R.      10-5-    Statement of benefits for Shalee Oil, LLC
2015-21 2015
R.      10-5-    Statement of benefits for Shalee Oil, LLC
2015-22 2015
R.      12-7-    Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2015-23 2015
R.      2-1-2016 Compliance with statement of benefits for NJT Enterprises, LLC
2016-03          (d/b/a Mayco International)
R.      2-1-2016 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2016-04          Wire, Inc.
R.      2-1-2016 Compliance with statement of benefits for Specialty T, LLC
2016-05
R.      2-1-2016 Compliance with statement of benefits for Reflective
2016-07          Industries, LLC/Strategic Materials, Inc.
R.      3-7-2016 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Iron and
2016-06          Metal
R.      3-7-2016 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2016-09
R.      3-7-2016 Compliance with statement of benefits for Middletown
2016-10          Enterprises, Inc.
R.      3-7-2016 Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2016-11
R.      3-7-2016 Compliance with statement of benefits for BRC Rubber and
2016-12          Plastics, Inc.
R.      3-7-2016 Compliance with statement of benefits for ShaLee Oils, LLC
2016-13
R.      3-7-2016 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2016-14
R.      5-2-2016 Compliance with statement of benefits for Villages at Van
2016-16          Cleve, L.P.
R.      5-2-2016 Compliance with statement of benefits for New Indy
2016-17          Containerboard
R.      12-5-    Statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and Wire, Inc.
2016-19 2016
R.      1-3-2017 Statement of benefits for NJT Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Mayco
2017-01          International, LLC
R.      2-6-2017 Compliance with statement of benefits for NJT Enterprises, LLC
2017-02          d/b/a Mayco International, LLC
R.      3-6-2017 Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2017-04
R.      3-6-2017 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2017-05
R.      3-6-2017 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2017-06
R.      4-3-2017 Compliance with statement of benefits for Middletown
2017-07          Enterprises, Inc.
R.      4-3-2017 Compliance with statement of benefits for ShaLee Oils, LLC
2017-08
R.      5-1-2017 Compliance with statement of benefits for New Indy
2017-10          Containerboard Hartford City
R.      5-1-2017 Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2017-11
R.      5-1-2017 Determining need for lease with Hartford City Municipal
2017-12          Building Corp.
R.      5-16-    Accepting taxpayer petitions for lease with Hartford City
2017-16 2017     Municipal Building Corp.
R.      6-5-2017 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Iron and
2017-13          Metal, Inc.
R.      7-3-2017 Compliance with statement of benefits and Specialty T, LLC
2017-14
R.      7-18-    Authorizing fourth amendment to lease with Hartford City
2017-18 2017     Municipal Building Corp.
R.      9-5-2017 Compliance with statement of benefits for BRC Rubber and
2017-15          Plastics, Inc.
R.      10-2-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Villages of Van
2017-19 2017     Cleve, L.P.
R.      1-2-2018 Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2018-01
R.      2-5-2018 Approving fifth amendment to lease with Hartford City
2018-04          Municipal Building Corp.
R.      2-5-2018 Determining need for lease with Hartford City Municipal
2018-05          Building Corp.
R.      3-5-2018 Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2018-06
R.      3-5-2018 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2018-07
R.      3-5-2018 Compliance with statement of benefits for NJT Enterprises, LLC
2018-08          d/b/a Mayco International
R.      3-5-2018 Compliance with statement of benefits for Village of Van
2018-09          Cleve, L.P.
R.      3-5-2018 Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2018-10
R.      4-2-2018 Compliance with statement of benefits for BRC Rubber and
2018-12          Plastics, Inc.
R.      4-2-2018 Compliance with statement of benefits for Middletown
2018-13          Enterprises, Inc.
R.      4-2-2018 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford Iron and
2018-14          Metal, Inc.
R.      5-7-2018 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2018-15          Wire, Inc.
R.      5-7-2018 Compliance with statement of benefits for Specialty T, LLC
2018-16
R.      5-7-2018 Compliance with statement of benefits for New Indy
2018-17          Containerboard Hartford City
R.      5-7-2018 Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2018-18
R.      5-7-2018 Compliance with statement of benefits for ShaLee Oils, LLC
2018-19
R.      8-6-2018 Statement of benefits for Specialty T, LLC
2018-21
R.      2-4-2019 Statement of benefits for Ruble Young, LLC
2019-02
R.      3-4-2019 Statement of benefits for Hartford City Pit Stop, LLC
2019-09
R.      3-4-2019 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2019-10          Wire, Inc.
R.      4-1-2019 Compliance with statement of benefits for Middletown
2019-11          Enterprises, Inc.
R.      4-1-2019 Compliance with statement of benefits for BRC Rubber and
2019-12          Plastics, Inc.
R.      4-1-2019 Statement of benefits for 3M Company
2019-13
R.      4-1-2019 Statement of benefits for NJT Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Mayco
2019-14          International, LLC
R.      4-1-2019 Compliance with statement of benefits for Village of Van
2019-15          Cleve, L.P.
R.      4-1-2019 Compliance with statement of benefits for NJT Enterprises, LLC
2019-16          d/b/a Mayco International
R.      4-1-2019 Compliance with statement of benefits for 3M Company
2019-17
R.      5-6-2019 Compliance with statement of benefits for ShaLee Oils, LLC
2019-18
R.      5-6-2019 Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2019-19
R.      5-6-2019 Statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2019-20
R.      5-6-2019 Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2019-21
R.      5-6-2019 Compliance with statement of benefits for New Indy
2019-22          Containerboard Hartford City
R.      6-3-2019 Compliance with statement of benefits for Specialty T, LLC
2019-24
R. 01-  4-6-2020 Tax abatement for Petoskey Plastics
2020
R. 03-  4-6-2020 Tax abatement for NJT Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Mayco
2020             International, LLC
R. 04-  4-6-2020 Tax abatement for NJT Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Mayco
2020             International, LLC
R.      4-6-2020 Compliance with statement of benefits for Villages of Van
2020-05          Cleve, L.P.
R.      4-6-2020 Compliance with statement of benefits for Middletown
2020-06          Enterprises, Inc.
R.      5-4-2020 Authorizing entry into BOT agreement with GM Development
2020-10          Companies LLC
R.      5-4-2020 Tax abatement for 3M Company
2020-11
R.      5-4-2020 Compliance with statement of benefits for Shalee Oils, LLC
2020-12
R.      5-4-2020 Compliance with statement of benefits for Shalee Oils, LLC
2020-13
R.      5-4-2020 Compliance with statement of benefits for Shalee Oils, LLC
2020-14
R.      6-1-2020 Compliance with statement of benefits for Tru-Form Steel and
2020-15          Wire, Inc.
R.      6-1-2020 Compliance with statement of benefits for Specialty T, LLC
2020-16
R.      6-1-2020 Compliance with statement of benefits for Hartford City Pit
2020-17          Stop, LLC
R.      6-1-2020 Compliance with statement of benefits for Ruble Young, LLC
2020-18
R.      6-10-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2020-20 2020
R.      6-10-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2020-21 2020
R.      6-10-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2020-22 2020
R.      6-10-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2020-23 2020
R.      6-10-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2020-24 2020
R.      6-10-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2020-25 2020
R.      6-10-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2020-26 2020
R.      6-10-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2020-27 2020
R.      6-10-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2020-28 2020
R.      6-10-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2020-29 2020
R.      6-10-    Compliance with statement of benefits for Petoskey Plastics
2020-30 2020
R.      6-15-    Compliance with statement of benefits for BRC Rubber and
2020-31 2020     Plastics, Inc.
R.      6-15-    Compliance with statement of benefits for BRC Rubber and
2020-32 2020     Plastics, Inc.
2021-06 2-1-2021 Reaffirming build-operate-transfer transaction award to GM
                 Development Companies LLC
R.      8-2-2021 Approving CF-1 for personal property, 3M Company (2016
2021-34          approval)
R.      8-2-2021 Approving CF-1 for personal property, 3M Company (2017
2021-35          approval)
R.      8-2-2021 Approving CF-1 for personal property, 3M Company (2011
2021-36          approval)
R.      8-2-2021 Approving CF-1 for personal property, 3M Company (2020
2021-37          approval)
R.      8-2-2021 Approving CF-1 for personal property, 3M Company (2018
2021-38          approval)
                
 
TABLE II: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Ord./Res. No. Passed Date Description
Ord./Res. No. Passed Date Description
R. 88-04      2-1-1988    Industrial areas declared economic revitalization
                          areas
R. 93-22      10-4-1993   Economic revitalization area designation
R. 1994-06    3-7-1994    Economic revitalization area designation
R. 1994-09    4-4-1994    Economic revitalization area designation (confirms
                          Res. 1994-06)
R. 1999-06    4-5-1999    Economic development plan approval
R. 1999-33    11-1-1999   Establishing North End Economic Development Area
R. 2000-07    4-3-2000    Economic revitalization area designation, abatement
                          for Chesapeake Limited Partnership
                          Economic revitalization area designation, abatement
R. 2000-09    5-1-2000    for Chesapeake Limited Partnership (confirms Res.
                          2000-07)
R. 2000-09    5-1-2000    Confirmatory resolution on economic revitalization
                          area (confirms Res. 2000-07)
R. 2001-02    2-5-2001    Economic development area expansion approval
R. 2001-07    3-5-2001    Economic revitalization area designation
R. 2001-38    12-3-2001   Economic development area expansion approval
R. 2002-08    2-4-2002    Economic revitalization area designation
R. 2002-12    3-4-2002    Economic revitalization area designation
R. 2004-01    2-2-2004    Economic revitalization area designation, preliminary
                          resolution
R. 2004-33    10-4-2004   Economic revitalization area designation (confirms
                          Res. 2004-01)
R. 2009-27    12-7-2009   Economic development area, allocation area
                          establishment
R. 2011-04A   6-6-2011    Economic revitalization area designation
R. 2011-17    7-5-2011    Economic revitalization area designation
R. 2011-23    11-7-2011   Economic revitalization area designation
R. 2011-27    12-5-2011   Approving North End economic development area
                          amendments
R. 2011-26    1-3-2012    Economic revitalization area designation
R. 2012-02    3-5-2012    Economic revitalization area designation
R. 2012-07    4-2-2012    Economic revitalization area designation
R. 2012-27    8-6-2012    Approving Downtown Facade Revitalization Plan
R. 2013-07    10-23-2013  Blackford Industrial Park economic development area
                          amendments
R. 2013-25    11-6-2013   Approving Blackford Industrial Park economic
                          development area amendments
R. 2018-26    11-5-2018   Consolidated Hartford City Economic Development Area
                          Economic Development Plan amendment approval
R. 2019-04    2-4-2019    Economic revitalization area designation
R. 2019-08    3-4-2019    Economic revitalization area designation
R. 2020-02    3-16-2020   Economic development area, allocation area
                          establishment
R. 2020-34    6-1-2020    Economic development area, allocation area
                          establishment
2020-13       12-7-2020   Economic development target area designation
                         
 
TABLE III: STREETS, PUBLIC PROPERTY AND REAL ESTATE
Ord./Res. No. Passed Date Description
Ord./Res. No. Passed Date Description
R. 1995-42    12-18-1995  Renaming dedicated city street
R. 1997-11    5-5-1997    Assuring access to new access road for True-Form
                          Steel and Wire, Inc., amended
R. 97-60      10-6-1997   Authorizing real estate conveyance to Blackford
                          County Hospital
R. 97-63      11-3-1997   Real estate conveyance to Blackford County Hospital
                          (affirms Res. 97-60)
R. 1999-09    5-3-1999    Sale of city-owned industrial lands and lease-back of
                          industrial lands and shell building
R. 1999-14    5-3-1999    Sale of unneeded city-owned real estate
R. 2002-29    8-5-2002    Blighted area designation
R. 2003-33    12-1-2003   Naming and placement in inventory of rights-of-way
R. 2004-36    11-1-2004   Authorizing sign in median placement for Blackford
                          Community Hospital
R. 2004-37    12-6-2004   Dedication of right-of-way
R. 2005-28    10-3-2005   Disposal of city-owned real estate
R. 2006-37    11-6-2006   Vacation of right-of-way, utility, street lights
R. 2011-20    9-6-2011    Blighted area designation (replaces Res. 2002-09)
2012-03       4-2-2012    Vacation of right-of-way
R. 2012-28    9-4-2012    Adopting redevelopment plan for former Blackford
                          County Hospital
R. 2012-33    11-5-2012   Transfer of real estate to Hartford City
                          Redevelopment Commission
2013-01       1-7-2013    Vacation of rights-of-way, lots
2013-04       3-20-2013   Vacation of right-of-way
R. 2013-05    5-6-2013    Transfer of real estate from Blackford County Schools
2014-12       11-3-2014   Rezoning
2016-03       3-7-2016    Dedication of right-of-way
2016-17       12-5-2016   Vacation of rights-of-way
2016-18       12-5-2016   Vacation of right-of-way
2018-03       3-5-2018    Vacation of rights-of-way
2018-09       8-6-2018    Vacation of right-of-way
R. 2018-20    5-7-2018    Sale of city property to Indiana Department of
                          Transportation
2019-12       10-7-2019   Vacation of right-of-way
2021-01       1-4-2021    Vacation of right-of-way
2021-02       1-4-2021    Vacation of rights-of-way
                         
 
TABLE IV: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Passed Date Description
Ord./Res. No. Passed Date Description
213           10-17-1912  Disannexation
292           6-18-1926   Disannexation
313           7-19-1929   Disannexation
500           5-15-1953   Annexation
509           1-11-1954   Annexation
510           1-11-1954   Annexation
511           1-11-1954   Annexation
512           1-11-1954   Annexation
542           9-4-1954    Disannexation
538           7-16-1956   Annexation
539           7-16-1956   Annexation
544           10-11-1956  Annexation
569           10-6-1958   Annexation
570           10-6-1958   Annexation
573           4-27-1959   Annexation
574           6-1-1959    Annexation
651           8-5-1963    Annexation
734           10-2-1967   Annexation
736           3-4-1968    Annexation
742           11-4-1968   Annexation
744           12-2-1968   Annexation
745           12-2-1968   Annexation
855           5-7-1973    Annexation
960           11-17-1976  Annexation
961           1-3-1977    Annexation
969           9-12-1977   Annexation
977           7-10-1978   Disannexation
978           7-10-1978   Annexation
984           7-10-1978   Annexation
990           10-2-1978   Annexation
992           7-9-1979    Annexation
996           10-8-1979   Annexation
997           1-7-1980    Annexation
1042          3-5-1984    Annexation
1086          5-6-1985    Annexation
1201          2-1-1989    Annexation
1245          7-1-1989    Annexation
1387          6-6-1994    Annexation
R. 2008-05    4-7-2008    Fiscal plan for annexation
2008-03       5-5-2008    Annexation
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                  Code Section
1-1-1-5                     10.05
1-1-1-7                     10.14
1-1-1-8                     10.07
1-1-4-5                     10.06;
                            30.25
1-1-5-1                     10.13
1-1-6-1                     10.09
3-11-1.5                    30.25
4-21.5-3-7                  151.37
4-33-12-6                   35.02
4-33-13                     35.02
5-1-5                       31.023
5-1-11                      31.023
5-3-1                       31.028
5-3-1-2(b)                  156.25
5-11-1-27(e)                37.015
5-11-1-27(g)                37.045
5-11-1-27(j)                37.032
5-11-1-27(l)                37.032
5-11-10-1                   34.18
5-22                        30.04
6-1.1-20                    31.024
6-3.6-6-8                   35.47
6-8-5                       31.023
8-1-2-1                     31.025
8-1.5-3-4(a)                31.016
8-1.5-5                     31.015
8-14-1-1                    35.41
9-13-2-1 et seq.            70.02
9-13-2-105                  111.01
9-13-2-109                  73.01
9-21-11                     73.02
9-21-11 et seq.             73.01
9-21-11-9                   73.09
9-21-11-12                  73.01;
                            73.03
9-22-1-30                   35.43
9-24                        73.01
9-32-2                      111.01
11-8-8                      131.16;
                            131.19
14-21-1-19                  156.02
14-28-1                     153.46
14-28-1-26                  153.46
22-9-1-4 et seq.            90.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.            90.01
22-9.5-2-2                  90.02
22-9.5-2-3                  90.02
22-9.5-2-4                  90.02
22-9.5-2-8                  90.02
22-9.5-2-9                  90.02
22-9.5-2-11                 90.02
22-9.5-2-13                 90.02
22-9.5-3                    90.04
22-9.5-3 et seq.            90.09
22-9.5-4-8                  90.10
22-9.5-5                    90.02
22-9.5-5-1                  90.04
22-9.5-6                    90.02;
                            90.10
22-12                       151.37
22-12-1-4                   151.03
22-12-1-5                   151.03
22-12-1-7                   151.03
22-12-1-14                  151.03
22-12-1-16                  151.03
22-12-1-17                  151.03
22-12-1-18                  151.03
22-12-1-22(b)(12)           151.50
22-12-1-24                  151.03
22-12-1-26                  151.03
22-12-7                     151.02
22-13                       151.37
22-13-2-3(b)                151.04
22-13-2-6                   151.01
22-13-2-7                   151.37
22-13-2-7(b)                151.04
22-13-2-9                   151.01
22-13-2-11                  151.02
22-14                       151.37
22-15                       151.37
22-15-3                     151.16
22-15-4                     151.01
25-25-2-1                   113.12
25-37-1-2                   113.11
32-25-2-9                   151.03
33-36-3-7                   32.03
                            131.15;
35-42-4                     131.16;
                            131.19
36-1-3-2                    35.05;
                            38.02
36-1-3-3(a)                 35.05
36-1-3-3(b)                 35.05
36-1-3-4(b)(1)              35.05
36-1-3-4(b)(2)              35.05
                            30.25;
36-1-5-4                    38.18;
                            151.04;
                            151.50
36-1-6-4                    151.99
36-1-6-9                    151.37
36-1-8-5                    35.01
36-1-8-5(b)                 35.01
36-1-8-5.1                  35.01
36-1-20.2                   38.15;
                            38.18
36-1-21                     38.15;
                            38.18
36-4 et seq.                31.003
36-4-5                      30.01
36-4-5-5                    113.05
36-4-6                      30.20
36-4-6-4                    30.20
36-4-6-5                    30.20
36-4-6-9                    30.22
36-4-6-10 through 36-4-6-17 30.21
36-4-6-11                   38.16
36-4-6-13(b) et seq.        35.05
36-4-6-14 through 36-4-6-17 30.24
36-4-7-2                    33.15
36-4-8-2                    34.17
36-4-8-3                    34.16
36-4-9-2                    30.02
36-4-9-12                   30.03
36-4-10                     30.40
36-4-10-2                   34.17
36-4-11-2                   30.02
36-4-11-4                   30.41
36-5-2-9.4                  38.16
36-7-4                      153.01;
                            156.07
36-7-4 et seq.              31.003
36-7-4-1609                 156.07
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28  152.01
36-7-10.1-3                 94.03
36-7-12                     31.060
36-7-13-1 et seq.           35.22
36-7-13-4                   35.22
36-8-6                      31.001;
                            35.45
36-8-7                      31.002;
                            35.44
36-8-8                      31.001;
                            31.002
36-8-12-16                  36.02
36-8-12.2-8                 36.03
36-8-14                     35.46
36-8-17                     151.35
36-9-14.5                   35.25
36-9-17                     35.20
36-9-17-1 et seq.           35.20
36-9-23                     35.03;
                            51.39
36-9-36 through 36-9-39     35.20
36-9-36-17                  152.15
36-10-3                     31.045
36-10-3 et seq.             31.046
36-10-3-22                  35.27
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2021 Code
Prior Code 2021 Code
1.04.080   10.03
1.04.010   10.06
1.04.060   10.11
1.08.010   10.99
2.04.010   31.060
2.04.020   31.001
2.04.030   31.002
2.08.010   33.15
2.08.020   33.16
2.12.010   31.003
2.16.010   30.25
2.16.020   30.25
2.16.030   30.25
2.16.040   30.25
2.16.050   30.25
2.16.060   30.25
2.16.070   30.25
2.20.010   38.02
2.24.010   30.01
2.24.020   30.02;
           30.03
2.24.030   30.02
2.24.040   30.03
2.24.050   30.05
2.24.060   33.01
2.24.070   30.04
2.28.010   30.20
2.28.020   30.22
2.28.030   30.23
2.28.040   30.21;
           30.24
2.28.050   30.20
2.28.060   30.20
2.36.010   30.40
2.36.020   30.40
2.36.030   30.40
2.36.040   30.41
2.36.050   30.42
2.40.010   30.55
2.40.020   30.56
2.40.030   30.57
2.40.040   30.58
2.40.050   30.59
2.48.010   31.095
2.48.020   31.096
2.48.030   31.097
2.48.040   31.098
2.48.050   31.100
2.48.060   31.099
2.52.010   33.03
2.52.020   33.03
2.60.010   31.115
2.60.040   31.117
2.60.050   31.118
2.60.060   31.119
2.60.070   31.116
2.60.080   31.120
2.64.010   31.045
2.64.020   31.046
2.64.030   31.047
2.64.040   31.048
2.64.050   31.046
2.64.070   31.049
2.68.010   31.075
2.68.020   31.076
2.68.030   31.076
2.68.040   31.077
2.68.050   31.077
2.68.060   31.080
2.68.070   31.078
2.68.080   31.079
3.04.010   35.20
3.04.020   35.20
3.04.030   35.20
3.04.040   35.20
3.04.050   35.20
3.04.060   35.20
3.04.070   35.20
3.08.010   35.46
3.08.020   35.46
3.10.010   35.25
3.10.020   35.25
3.10.030   35.25
3.10.040   35.25
3.12.010   34.15
3.12.020   34.16
3.12.030   34.17
3.12.040   34.19
3.12.050   34.18
3.20.010   35.43
3.20.020   35.43
3.28.040   35.50
3.28.060   35.50
3.28.080   35.50
3.30.010   35.49
3.30.020   35.49
3.30.030   35.49
3.36.010   35.45
3.40.010   35.44
3.44.010   35.68
3.47.010   35.03
3.47.020   35.03
3.47.030   35.03
3.47.035   35.03
3.47.040   35.03
3.47.060   35.03
3.47.070   35.03
3.48.010   35.04
3.48.020   35.04
3.48.030   35.04
3.52.010   35.22
3.52.020   35.22
3.52.030   35.22
3.52.040   35.22
3.60.010   35.21
3.60.020   35.21
3.60.030   35.21
3.60.040   35.21
3.60.050   35.21
3.60.060   35.21
3.64.010   35.23
3.64.020   35.23
3.68.010   35.28
3.68.020   35.28
3.68.030   35.28
3.68.040   35.28
3.68.050   35.28
3.68.060   35.28
3.68.070   35.28
3.72.010   36.20
3.72.020   36.21;
           36.25
3.72.030   36.22
3.72.040   36.23
3.72.050   36.24
3.76.010   35.26
3.76.020   35.26
3.78.010   35.27
3.78.020   35.27
3.78.030   35.27
3.80.010   31.015
3.80.020   31.016
3.80.030   31.021
3.80.040   31.016
3.80.050   31.020
3.80.060   31.022
3.80.070   31.017
3.80.080   31.019
3.80.090   31.026
3.80.100   31.018
3.80.110   31.023
3.80.120   31.025
3.80.130   31.027
3.80.140   31.028
3.80.150   31.029
3.80.160   31.030
3.80.170   31.031
3.80.180   31.032
3.80.200   31.024
3.84.010   35.51
3.84.020   35.51
3.86.010   35.01
3.86.020   35.01
3.86.030   35.01
3.86.040   35.01
3.88.010   35.02
3.88.020   35.02
3.88.030   35.02
3.90.010   35.48
3.90.020   35.48
3.90.030   35.48
3.92.010   36.01
           36.04;
3.92.020   36.06;
           36.07
3.92.030   36.02
3.92.040   36.05
3.92.050   36.03
4.04.010   32.01
4.04.020   32.02
4.04.030   32.02
4.04.040   32.03
4.04.050   32.04
4.04.060   32.07
4.04.070   32.05;
           32.06
5.01.010   113.01
5.01.020   113.02
5.01.030   113.12
5.01.040   113.03
5.01.050   113.04
5.01.060   113.04
5.01.070   113.11
5.01.080   113.08
5.01.090   113.09
5.01.100   113.06
5.01.110   113.10
5.01.120   113.07
5.01.130   113.05
5.01.140   113.99
5.02.010   111.02
5.02.020   111.01
5.02.030   111.99
5.08.010   110.02
5.20.010   112.01
5.20.020   112.02
5.20.030   112.03
5.20.040   112.05
5.20.050   112.06
5.20.060   112.07
5.20.070   112.99
6.06.010   92.40 through
           92.42
6.06.020   92.43
6.06.030   92.99
8.04.010   93.01
8.04.020   93.01
8.04.030   93.02
8.04.040   93.02
8.04.050   93.03
8.04.060   93.04
8.04.070   93.04
8.04.080   93.99
           93.15 through
8.04.090   93.19;
           93.99
8.08.010   95.01
8.08.020   95.02
8.08.030   95.03
8.08.040   95.04
8.08.050   95.05;
           95.99
8.08.060   95.99
8.12.010   94.30
8.12.020   94.30;
           94.31
8.12.030   94.32
8.12.040   94.33
8.12.050   94.99
8.16.010   71.01
8.16.020   71.02
8.16.040   71.99
8.24.010   94.01;
           94.02
8.24.020   94.03
8.24.030   94.04
8.24.040   94.99
8.28.010   151.51
8.28.020   151.51
8.28.030   151.51
8.28.040   151.51
8.28.050   151.99
8.32.010   132.03
8.32.020   132.02
8.32.030   132.99
8.36.010   52.105
8.36.020   52.106
8.36.030   52.107
8.36.040   52.108
8.36.050   52.109;
           52.999
8.38.010   130.01
8.38.020   130.01
8.38.030   130.99
8.40.010   132.01
8.40.020   132.01
8.40.030   132.01
8.40.040   132.01
8.40.050   132.99
8.42.020   96.08
8.42.030   96.03
8.42.040   96.04
8.42.050   96.06
8.42.060   96.07
8.42.070   96.05
8.42.080   96.09
8.42.090   96.10
8.42.100   96.13
8.42.110   96.14
8.42.120   96.11
8.42.130   96.12
8.42.140   96.99
8.42.150   96.01
8.50.010   131.15
8.50.020   131.16
8.50.030   131.17
8.50.040   131.18
8.50.050   131.19
8.50.060   131.99
9.04.010   131.01
9.04.040   131.99
9.12.010   133.02
9.12.020   133.99
9.16.020   130.99
9.20.010   133.01
9.20.020   133.99
9.24.010   130.02
9.24.020   130.02
9.24.030   130.99
10.04.010  70.01
10.04.020  70.02
10.04.030  70.03
10.12.010  74.01
10.12.020  74.02
10.12.030  74.03
10.12.040  74.06
10.12.050  74.04
10.12.060  74.05
10.12.070  74.99
11.04.010  11.01
12.04.010  91.01
12.04.020  91.04
12.04.030  91.02
12.04.040  91.02;
           91.03
12.08.010  155.20
12.08.020  155.21
12.08.030  155.99
13.04.010  51.01
13.04.020  51.02
13.04.030  51.03
13.04.035  51.04
13.04.040  51.35
13.04.050  51.21
13.04.060  51.22
13.04.070  51.20
13.04.080  51.24
13.04.100  51.57
13.04.110  51.55
13.04.120  51.56
13.04.130  51.58
13.04.140  51.23
13.04.150  51.59
13.04.160  51.38
13.04.170  51.37
13.04.180  51.36
13.04.190  51.05
15.08.010  52.005
15.08.020  52.999
15.12.010  151.03
15.12.020  151.01
15.12.030  151.02
15.12.100  151.15
15.12.110  151.16
15.12.120  151.17
15.12.130  151.20
15.12.210  151.35
15.12.220  151.35
15.12.310  151.18
15.12.320  151.19
15.12.330  151.36
15.12.340  151.99
15.12.350  151.99
15.12.360  151.37
15.12.410  151.04
15.12.510  151.50
16.04.010  150.01
17.04.010  38.30
17.04.020  38.31
17.04.030  38.32
18.04.010  157.01
18.04.020  157.02
18.04.030  157.02
18.04.040  157.02
18.04.050  157.03
18.04.060  157.02
18.04.070  157.22
18.04.080  157.26
18.04.090  157.27
18.04.100  157.21
18.04.110  157.23
18.04.120  157.24
18.04.130  157.04
18.04.140  157.43
18.04.150  157.25
18.04.160  157.20
18.04.170  157.41
18.04.180  157.07
18.04.190  157.40
18.04.200  157.42
18.04.210  157.99
18.04.220  157.05
18.04.230  157.06
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.      Date Passed Code Section
-             1-4-1943    52.022
87-16         8-3-1987    TSO, Table I
88-02         2-1-1988    TSO, Table I
88-04         2-1-1988    TSO, Table II
88-05         2-10-1988   TSO, Table I
89-07         7-31-1989   TSO, Table I
90-09         5-7-1990    TSO, Table I
90-17         11-5-1990   TSO, Table I
91-07         5-6-1991    TSO, Table I
1992-34       10-19-1992  30.03
1993-13       - -1993     TSO, Table I
1993-02       3-1-1993    TSO, Table I
1993-05       4-5-1993    35.67
1993-08       5-3-1993    TSO, Table I
1993-09       5-3-1993    TSO, Table I
-             6-7-1993    TSO, Table I
1993-15       7-6-1993    TSO, Table I
93-21         10-4-1993   50.01
93-22         10-4-1993   TSO, Table II
1993-24       11-1-1993   TSO, Table I
1993-29       12-6-1993   TSO, Table I
1994-02       2-7-1994    TSO, Table I
1994-05       3-7-1994    TSO, Table I
1994-06       3-7-1994    TSO, Table II
1994-08       4-4-1994    TSO, Table I
1994-09       4-4-1994    TSO, Table II
1994-10       4-4-1994    TSO, Table I
1994-11       4-4-1994    TSO, Table I
1994-16       6-6-1994    TSO, Table I
1994-17       6-6-1994    TSO, Table I
1994-18       6-6-1994    TSO, Table I
1994-20       7-5-1994    TSO, Table I
1994-23       7-18-1994   TSO, Table I
1994-29       9-6-1994    TSO, Table I
1994-37       10-3-1994   TSO, Table I
1994-43       12-5-1994   TSO, Table I
1995-07       2-6-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-09       2-28-1995   TSO, Table I
1995-10       4-3-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-11       4-3-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-12       4-3-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-13       4-3-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-14       4-3-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-15       4-3-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-16       5-1-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-17       5-1-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-18       5-1-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-20       6-5-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-21       6-5-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-22       6-5-1995    TSO, Table I
95-24         6-28-1995   TSO, Table I
1995-25       7-5-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-26       7-5-1995    TSO, Table I
1995-35       11-13-1995  TSO, Table I
1995-42       12-18-1995  TSO, Table III
1996-01       2-5-1996    33.30 through
                          33.39
1996-02       2-5-1996    33.50 through
                          33.66
1996-05       4-1-1996    TSO, Table I
1996-06       4-1-1996    33.04
1996-07       5-6-1996    TSO, Table I
1996-08       5-6-1996    TSO, Table I
1996-09       6-3-1996    TSO, Table I
1996-11       6-3-1996    TSO, Table I
1996-13       6-3-1996    TSO, Table I
1996-14       7-1-1996    TSO, Table I
1996-15       7-1-1996    TSO, Table I
1996-16       7-1-1996    TSO, Table I
1996-19       7-1-1996    TSO, Table I
1996-21       7-1-1996    TSO, Table I
1996-26       9-25-1996   TSO, Table I
1996-27       10-7-1996   TSO, Table I
1996-36       12-30-1996  TSO, Table I
1997-07       2-3-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-08       2-3-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-09       2-3-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-06       2-5-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-11       5-5-1997    TSO, Table III
1997-13       5-5-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-14       5-5-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-15       5-5-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-16       5-5-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-17       5-5-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-18       5-5-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-20       5-5-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-19       6-2-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-21       6-2-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-27       6-2-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-28       6-2-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-29       6-2-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-30       6-2-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-31       6-2-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-32       6-2-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-33       6-2-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-35       6-2-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-36       6-2-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-37       7-7-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-38       7-7-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-39       7-7-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-40       7-7-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-41       7-7-1997    TSO, Table I
97-42         7-7-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-43       7-7-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-44       7-7-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-45       7-7-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-47       7-7-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-49       7-7-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-48       8-4-1997    TSO, Table I
1997-46       8-18-1997   TSO, Table I
1997-50       8-18-1997   TSO, Table I
1997-51       8-18-1997   TSO, Table I
1997-52       8-25-1997   TSO, Table I
97-60         10-6-1997   TSO, Table III
97-63         11-3-1997   TSO, Table III
1998-01       2-2-1998    TSO, Table I
1998-02       3-2-1998    TSO, Table I
1998-06       4-6-1998    34.04
1998-11       5-4-1998    TSO, Table I
1998-12       5-4-1998    TSO, Table I
1998-13       5-4-1998    TSO, Table I
1998-14       6-1-1998    TSO, Table I
1998-15       6-1-1998    TSO, Table I
1998-16       6-1-1998    TSO, Table I
1998-17       6-1-1998    TSO, Table I
1998-18       7-6-1998    TSO, Table I
1998-19       7-6-1998    TSO, Table I
1999-02       3-1-1999    TSO, Table I
1999-03       3-1-1999    TSO, Table I
1999-05       4-5-1999    TSO, Table I
1999-06       4-5-1999    TSO, Table II
1999-09       5-3-1999    TSO, Table III
1999-11       5-3-1999    TSO, Table I
1999-12       5-3-1999    TSO, Table I
1999-13       5-3-1999    TSO, Table I
1999-14       5-3-1999    TSO, Table III
1999-17       6-7-1999    TSO, Table I
1999-18       6-7-1999    TSO, Table I
1999-19       7-6-1999    TSO, Table I
1999-20       7-6-1999    TSO, Table I
1999-21       7-6-1999    TSO, Table I
1999-25       8-16-1999   50.02
1999-30       9-7-1999    TSO, Table I
1999-33       11-1-1999   TSO, Table II
1999-35       12-6-1999   TSO, Table I
2000-02       2-7-2000    TSO, Table I
2000-04       2-7-2000    TSO, Table I
2000-05       3-6-2000    TSO, Table I
2000-06       3-6-2000    TSO, Table I
2000-07       4-3-2000    TSO, Table II
2000-09       5-1-2000    TSO, Table I
2000-09       5-1-2000    TSO, Table II
2000-13       6-5-2000    TSO, Table I
2000-14       6-5-2000    TSO, Table I
2000-15       6-5-2000    TSO, Table I
2000-16       6-5-2000    TSO, Table I
2000-17       6-5-2000    TSO, Table I
2000-29       9-5-2000    TSO, Table I
2000-39       12-4-2000   TSO, Table I
2001-01       2-5-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-02       2-5-2001    TSO, Table II
2001-05       3-5-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-06       3-5-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-07       3-5-2001    TSO, Table II
2001-08       4-2-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-09       4-2-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-11       4-2-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-12       5-7-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-13       5-7-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-14       5-7-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-15       5-7-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-16       5-7-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-21       6-4-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-22       7-2-2001    35.65
2001-23       7-2-2001    35.66
2001-25       8-6-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-26       8-6-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-27       8-6-2001    TSO, Table I
2001-28       8-6-2001    TSO, Table I
-             10-17-2001  TSO, Table I
2001-37       12-3-2001   TSO, Table I
2001-38       12-3-2001   TSO, Table II
2002-1        1-7-2002    35.24
2002-02       1-7-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-03       2-4-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-05       2-4-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-06       2-4-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-07       2-4-2002    35.05
2002-08       2-4-2002    TSO, Table II
2002-12       3-4-2002    TSO, Table II
2002-09       3-8-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-10       3-8-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-11       3-8-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-15       4-1-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-16       4-1-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-17       4-1-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-18       4-1-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-20       5-6-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-21       6-3-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-22       6-3-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-26       7-1-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-27       7-1-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-28       7-1-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-29       8-5-2002    TSO, Table III
2003-01       3-3-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-02       4-7-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-03       4-7-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-04       4-7-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-05       4-7-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-06B      6-2-2004    TSO, Table I
2003-07       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-08       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-09       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-10       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-11       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-12       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-13       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-14       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-15       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-16       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-17       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-18       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-19       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-20       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-21       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-22       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-23       6-2-2003    TSO, Table I
2003-33       12-1-2003   TSO, Table III
2004-01       2-2-2004    TSO, Table II
2004-05       2-2-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-06       3-1-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-10       3-1-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-11       3-1-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-12       3-1-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-13       3-1-2004    TSO, Table I
-             4-19-2004   TSO, Table I
2004-15       5-3-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-16       5-3-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-18       6-7-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-19       6-7-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-20       6-7-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-21       6-7-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-23       7-6-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-30       10-4-2004   TSO, Table I
2004-32       10-4-2004   TSO, Table I
2004-33       10-4-2004   TSO, Table II
2004-34       10-4-2004   TSO, Table I
-             10-18-2004  TSO, Table I
-             10-18-2004  31.115 through
                          31.120
-             11-1-2004   TSO, Table I
2004-36       11-1-2004   TSO, Table III
2004-37       12-6-2004   TSO, Table III
2004-44       12-6-2004   TSO, Table I
2005-02       2-7-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-03       2-7-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-06       3-7-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-08       3-7-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-09       3-7-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-11       4-4-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-13       5-2-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-14       5-2-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-15       6-6-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-16       6-6-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-17       6-6-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-18       6-6-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-19       6-6-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-20       6-6-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-21       6-6-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-22       7-5-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-23       7-5-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-24       7-5-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-26       8-15-2005   34.01
2005-28       10-3-2005   TSO, Table I
2005-28       10-3-2005   TSO, Table III
2006-02       2-6-2006    150.03
2006-04       3-6-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-05 (BOW) 3-6-2006    51.02;
                          51.22
2006-06       4-3-2006    33.01
2006-09       4-3-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-10       4-3-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-11       4-3-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-12       4-3-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-07       4-17-2006   33.01
2006-13       5-1-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-15       6-5-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-16       6-5-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-17       6-5-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-18       6-5-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-19       6-5-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-20       6-5-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-21       6-5-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-22       6-5-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-23       6-5-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-24 (BOW) 6-5-2006    51.21
2006-25       6-5-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-26       6-5-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-27       7-3-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-28       7-3-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-29       8-7-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-33 (BOW) 8-7-2006    51.22
2006-32       8-9-2006    TSO, Table I
2006-37       11-6-2006   TSO, Table III
2007-01 (BOW) 3-19-2007   51.37
2007-02       4-2-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-03       4-2-2007    34.02
2007-04       5-7-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-05       5-7-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-06       5-7-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-08       6-4-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-09       6-4-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-10       6-4-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-11       6-4-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-12       6-4-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-13       6-4-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-14       6-4-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-15       7-2-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-16       7-2-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-17       7-2-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-20       10-1-2007   34.02
2008-01       2-4-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-02       2-4-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-04       3-3-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-05       4-7-2008    TSO, Table IV
2008-06       4-7-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-07       5-5-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-08       5-5-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-10       5-5-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-11       5-5-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-12       5-5-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-19       6-2-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-14       7-7-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-22       7-7-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-23       7-7-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-13       8-4-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-15       8-4-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-18       8-4-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-20       8-4-2008    TSO, Table I
2008-21       9-2-2008    TSO, Table I
2009-03       4-20-2009   TSO, Table I
2009-04       5-4-2009    TSO, Table I
2009-05       5-4-2009    TSO, Table I
2009-07       6-1-2009    TSO, Table I
2009-08       6-1-2009    TSO, Table I
2009-09       6-1-2009    TSO, Table I
2009-10       6-1-2009    TSO, Table I
2009-11       6-1-2009    TSO, Table I
2009-13       6-1-2009    TSO, Table I
2009-14       6-1-2009    TSO, Table I
2009-17       6-1-2009    TSO, Table I
2009-18       6-1-2009    TSO, Table I
2009-12       7-6-2009    TSO, Table I
2009-26       11-2-2009   TSO, Table I
2009-25       11-16-2009  TSO, Table I
2009-27       12-7-2009   TSO, Table II
2010-02       2-1-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-03       2-1-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-04       4-5-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-06       5-3-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-07       5-3-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-08       6-7-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-10       6-7-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-11       6-7-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-12       6-7-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-13       6-7-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-14       6-7-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-15       6-7-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-16       6-7-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-17       6-7-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-18       6-7-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-20       7-6-2010    TSO, Table I
2011-01       4-4-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-02       5-2-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-03       5-2-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-04A      6-6-2011    TSO, Table II
2011-04B      6-6-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-05       6-6-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-06       6-6-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-07       6-6-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-08       6-6-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-09       6-6-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-10       6-6-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-11       6-6-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-13       6-6-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-16       6-6-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-17       7-5-2011    TSO, Table II
2011-18       8-1-2011    TSO, Table I
2011-20       9-6-2011    TSO, Table III
2011-23       11-7-2011   TSO, Table II
2011-24       11-7-2011   TSO, Table I
2011-27       12-5-2011   TSO, Table II
2011-26       1-3-2012    TSO, Table II
2012-02       3-5-2012    TSO, Table II
2012-03       3-5-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-04       3-5-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-06       4-2-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-07       4-2-2012    TSO, Table II
2012-10       5-7-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-11       5-7-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-09       6-4-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-12       6-4-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-14       6-4-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-15       6-4-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-16       6-4-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-17       6-4-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-18       6-4-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-19       6-4-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-20       6-4-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-21       6-4-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-22       6-4-2012    38.15 through
                          38.18
2012-25       6-4-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-13       7-2-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-26       8-6-2012    TSO, Table I
2012-27       8-6-2012    TSO, Table II
2012-28       9-4-2012    TSO, Table III
2012-31       10-1-2012   TSO, Table I
2012-32       10-4-2012   TSO, Table I
2012-33       11-5-2012   TSO, Table III
2013-03       5-6-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-04       5-6-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-05       5-6-2013    TSO, Table III
2013-06       5-6-2013    33.02
2013-06       5-20-2013   33.02
2013-08       6-3-2013    33.02
2013-09       7-1-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-10       7-1-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-11       7-1-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-13       7-1-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-14       7-1-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-15       7-1-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-16       7-1-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-17       7-1-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-18       7-1-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-19       7-1-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-12       8-5-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-20       8-5-2013    TSO, Table I
2013-24       10-7-2013   TSO, Table I
2013-07       10-23-2013  TSO, Table II
2013-25       11-6-2013   TSO, Table II
2013-26       12-2-2013   TSO, Table I
2013-27       12-2-2013   TSO, Table I
2013-28       12-2-2013   TSO, Table I
2014-03       3-3-2014    51.22
2014-04       3-3-2014    51.37
2014-05       4-7-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-06       4-7-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-07       5-5-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-08       5-5-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-09       5-5-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-12       5-5-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-13       5-5-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-10       6-2-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-15       6-2-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-16       6-2-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-17       6-2-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-18       6-2-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-19       6-2-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-20       6-2-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-21       6-2-2014    TSO, Table I
2014-23       9-16-2014   34.03
2014-25       10-6-2014   TSO, Table I
2015-03       3-2-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-05       4-6-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-06       5-4-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-07       5-4-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-08       5-4-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-09       6-1-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-10       6-1-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-11       6-1-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-13       6-1-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-15       6-1-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-16       6-1-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-17       6-1-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-14       7-6-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-18       7-6-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-12       8-3-2015    TSO, Table I
2015-21       10-5-2015   TSO, Table I
2015-22       10-5-2015   TSO, Table I
2015-23       12-7-2015   TSO, Table I
2016-03       2-1-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-04       2-1-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-05       2-1-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-07       2-1-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-06       3-7-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-09       3-7-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-10       3-7-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-11       3-7-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-12       3-7-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-13       3-7-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-14       3-7-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-16       5-2-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-17       5-2-2016    TSO, Table I
2016-19       12-5-2016   TSO, Table I
2017-01       1-3-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-02       2-6-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-04       3-6-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-05       3-6-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-06       3-6-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-07       4-3-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-08       4-3-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-10       5-1-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-11       5-1-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-12       5-1-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-16       5-16-2017   TSO, Table I
2017-13       6-5-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-14       7-3-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-18       7-18-2017   TSO, Table I
2017-15       9-5-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-19       10-2-2017   TSO, Table I
2017-20       10-2-2017   150.02
2018-01       1-2-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-04       2-5-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-05       2-5-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-06       3-5-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-07       3-5-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-08       3-5-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-09       3-5-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-10       3-5-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-12       4-2-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-13       4-2-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-14       4-2-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-15       5-7-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-16       5-7-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-17       5-7-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-18       5-7-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-19       5-7-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-20       5-7-2018    TSO, Table III
2018-21       8-6-2018    TSO, Table I
2018-26       11-5-2018   TSO, Table II
2019-02       2-4-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-03       2-4-2019    35.42
2019-04       2-4-2019    TSO, Table II
2019-07       3-4-2019    91.15 through
                          91.19
2019-08       3-4-2019    TSO, Table II
2019-09       3-4-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-10       3-4-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-11       4-1-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-12       4-1-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-13       4-1-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-14       4-1-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-15       4-1-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-16       4-1-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-17       4-1-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-18       5-6-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-19       5-6-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-20       5-6-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-21       5-6-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-22       5-6-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-24       6-3-2019    TSO, Table I
2020-02       3-16-2020   TSO, Table II
01-2020       4-6-2020    TSO, Table I
03-2020       4-6-2020    TSO, Table I
04-2020       4-6-2020    TSO, Table I
2020-05       4-6-2020    TSO, Table I
2020-06       4-6-2020    TSO, Table I
2020-10       5-4-2020    TSO, Table I
2020-11       5-4-2020    TSO, Table I
2020-12       5-4-2020    TSO, Table I
2020-13       5-4-2020    TSO, Table I
2020-14       5-4-2020    TSO, Table I
2020-15       6-1-2020    TSO, Table I
2020-16       6-1-2020    TSO, Table I
2020-17       6-1-2020    TSO, Table I
2020-18       6-1-2020    TSO, Table I
2020-34       6-1-2020    TSO, Table II
2020-20       6-10-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-21       6-10-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-22       6-10-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-23       6-10-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-24       6-10-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-25       6-10-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-26       6-10-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-27       6-10-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-28       6-10-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-29       6-10-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-30       6-10-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-31       6-15-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-32       6-15-2020   TSO, Table I
2020-01       11-2-2020   33.16
2021-01       1-4-2021    33.01
2021-02       1-4-2021    33.01
2021-34       8-2-2021    TSO, Table I
2021-35       8-2-2021    TSO, Table I
2021-36       8-2-2021    TSO, Table I
2021-37       8-2-2021    TSO, Table I
2021-38       8-2-2021    TSO, Table I
2021-40       9-6-2021    38.02
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
12        - -         TSO, Table I
439       - -         131.01
1048      - -         70.03
1052      - -         70.03
1053      - -         70.03
1054      - -         70.03
1078      - -         70.03
1083      - -         70.03
1084      - -         70.03
1086      - -         70.03
1101      - -         70.03
1102      - -         70.03
1103      - -         70.03
1173      - -         70.03
1176      - -         70.03
1177      - -         70.03
1183      - -         70.03
1223      - -         70.03
1242      - -         70.03
1299      - -         70.03
1323      - -         70.03
1419      - -         150.01
18        10-29-1894  51.02
28        2-14-1895   51.01
30        4-8-1895    71.02
44        10-18-1895  132.99
88        10-5-1900   131.99
193       3-9-1910    TSO, Table I
194       5-5-1910    TSO, Table I
213       10-17-1912  TSO, Table IV
234       8-18-1916   TSO, Table I
292       6-18-1926   TSO, Table IV
305       3-20-1928   TSO, Table I
313       7-19-1929   TSO, Table IV
306       3-20-1930   TSO, Table I
290       11-18-1935  133.99
409       10-4-1937   TSO, Table I
414       8-1-1938    52.022
420       9-5-1939    52.021
438       3-1-1943    35.68
88        4-5-1943    131.01
440       5-3-1943    TSO, Table I
463       8-5-1946    155.99
485       12-13-1950  TSO, Table I
500       5-15-1953   TSO, Table IV
505       12-7-1953   35.44
506       12-7-1953   35.45
509       1-11-1954   TSO, Table IV
510       1-11-1954   TSO, Table IV
511       1-11-1954   TSO, Table IV
512       1-11-1954   TSO, Table IV
542       9-4-1954    TSO, Table IV
538       7-16-1956   TSO, Table IV
539       7-16-1956   TSO, Table IV
544       10-11-1956  TSO, Table IV
                      52.105 through
549       7-1-1957    52.109;
                      52.999
569       10-6-1958   TSO, Table IV
570       10-6-1958   TSO, Table IV
573       4-27-1959   TSO, Table IV
574       6-1-1959    TSO, Table IV
651       8-5-1963    TSO, Table IV
655       6-1-1964    94.04
677       - -1965     35.20
674       2-1-1965    TSO, Table I
718       5-8-1967    TSO, Table I
734       10-2-1967   TSO, Table IV
736       3-4-1968    TSO, Table IV
742       11-4-1968   TSO, Table IV
744       12-2-1968   TSO, Table IV
745       12-2-1968   TSO, Table IV
762       5-5-1969    TSO, Table I
784       6-1-1970    35.68
828       6-5-1972    133.01;
                      133.99
824       2-5-1973    35.43
855       5-7-1973    TSO, Table IV
858-1/2   6-4-1973    TSO, Table I
882       4-1-1974    51.03
907       2-3-1975    150.01
908       2-3-1975    150.01
935       10-13-1975  TSO, Table I
960       11-17-1976  TSO, Table IV
961       1-3-1977    TSO, Table IV
962       6-15-1977   70.03
963       6-15-1977   70.03
970       8-15-1977   70.03;
                      94.99
969       9-12-1977   TSO, Table IV
968       10-3-1977   95.99
971       12-12-1977  70.03
                      52.001;
                      52.041;
972       2-14-1978   52.057;
                      52.058;
                      52.091
                      52.001;
974       2-14-1978   52.035 through
                      52.040;
                      52.043
975       2-14-1978   52.001
976       7-10-1978   TSO, Table I
977       7-10-1978   TSO, Table IV
978       7-10-1978   TSO, Table IV
984       7-10-1978   TSO, Table IV
982       8-28-1978   TSO, Table I
990       10-2-1978   TSO, Table IV
987       2-12-1979   70.03
989       3-5-1979    70.03
986       5-14-1979   70.03
992       7-9-1979    TSO, Table IV
995       10- -1979   70.03
996       10-8-1979   TSO, Table IV
997       1-7-1980    TSO, Table IV
1007      1-10-1980   51.04
1003      8-25-1980   51.35
                      51.20 through
                      51.24;
1003      9-8-1980    51.37;
                      51.38;
                      51.55 through
                      51.59
1005      11-10-1980  51.03
1010      3-2-1981    35.20
1012      7-6-1981    70.03
1013      8-31-1981   70.03
1015      2-1-1982    71.01;
                      71.99
1018      5-3-1982    38.02
1021      11-1-1982   70.03
1023      12-6-1982   70.03
                      92.40 through
1029      7-5-1983    92.42;
                      92.99
1030      7-5-1983    70.03
                      30.01 through
                      30.03;
                      30.05;
                      30.20 through
1036      1-5-1984    30.24;
                      30.40 through
                      30.42;
                      30.55;
                      31.060
1042      3-5-1984    TSO, Table IV
1041      5-7-1984    51.21
1047      5-7-1984    31.095 through
                      31.100
1051      5-7-1984    35.49
1056      6-2-1984    35.22
1049      6-4-1984    TSO, Table I
1055      7-2-1984    35.25
1149      7-2-1984    35.25
1065      8-13-1984   35.68
-         11-5-1984   74.99
1032      2-4-1985    70.03
1084      2-4-1985    52.058;
                      52.093
1075      3-4-1985    51.37
1086      5-6-1985    TSO, Table IV
1059      7-17-1985   30.04
1095      8-7-1985    30.55
1099      10-11-1985  35.21
1103      12-12-1985  TSO, Table I
1105      1-6-1986    33.03
1111      5-5-1986    35.23
741       5-20-1986   31.003
                      52.035 through
1110      7-7-1986    52.040;
                      52.043
1118      7-31-1986   35.04
                      30.42;
1136      12-8-1986   30.55;
                      30.59
1163      7-6-1987    TSO, Table I
1164      8-3-1987    35.28
1168      8-3-1987    35.04
1191      12-16-1987  130.99
1208      7-18-1988   35.03
1215      12-5-1988   150.01
1218      12-5-1988   150.01
1221      12-5-1988   TSO, Table I
1201      2-1-1989    TSO, Table IV
1245      7-1-1989    TSO, Table IV
1244      7-31-1989   52.005
1270      10-30-1989  TSO, Table I
1274      11-20-1989  30.24
1276      12-4-1989   35.03
1310      12-31-1990  35.03
1311      3-4-1991    35.03
1314      4-1-1991    35.26
1313      9-3-1991    31.024
1992-1356 1-20-1992   52.037
1992-1341 4-6-1992    35.21
1992-1353 7-27-1992   150.01
1355      10-5-1992   51.05
1992-38   12- -1992   35.51
1364      2-8-1993    51.36
1369      6-7-1993    35.25
1387      6-6-1994    TSO, Table IV
1388      7-5-1994    35.27
1994-1395 12-5-1994   35.03
1424      4-7-1997    52.039;
                      52.042
1997-1431 9-2-1997    52.037
1455      9-8-1998    34.19
2000-1    5-1-2000    35.21;
                      93.03
2002-16   11-4-2002   93.99
2002-17   11-4-2002   94.99
                      151.01 through
                      151.04;
                      151.15 through
2003-01   3-3-2003    151.20;
                      151.35 through
                      151.37;
                      151.99
2003-04   7-7-2003    93.99
2003-15   12-1-2003   35.03
2003-17   12-1-2003   30.42
2004-02   5-3-2004    31.075 through
                      31.080
2004-04   5-3-2004    70.03
2004-05   5-3-2004    35.01
2004-06   5-3-2004    35.02
133       6-16-2004   155.99
2004-08   7-6-2004    70.03
2004-12   11-1-2004   35.49
2004-13   12-6-2004   51.36
2004-15   1-3-2005    150.01
                      52.039;
                      52.041;
                      52.056;
2004-16   1-5-2005    52.070 through
                      52.076;
                      52.092;
                      52.999
146       4-20-2005   130.99
2005-04   6-6-2005    70.02
2005-06   6-6-2005    150.01
2005-07   6-6-2005    94.01 through
                      94.04
2005-08   8-1-2005    150.01
2005-12   10-3-2005   70.03
2005-17   12-5-2005   70.03
2006-03   4-3-2006    35.48
                      32.01 through
                      32.07;
                      94.99;
2006-02   6-5-2006    95.99;
                      96.99;
                      130.99;
                      132.99;
                      133.99
2006-05   7-3-2006    36.01 through
                      36.07
2006-06   7-3-2006    70.03
2006-07   7-3-2006    35.50
2006-12   10-2-2006   70.03
2006-13   10-2-2006   TSO, Table I
2006-14   12-4-2006   70.03
2006-15   12-28-2006  51.36
2006-18   1-2-2007    70.03
2007-01   2-5-2007    70.03
2007-02   4-2-2007    70.03
2007-04   4-2-2007    35.48
2007-03   5-7-2007    52.056
2007-05   5-7-2007    70.03
2007-10   7-2-2007    70.03
                      131.15 through
2008-01   2-4-2008    131.19;
                      131.99
2008-03   5-5-2008    TSO, Table IV
2008-04   5-5-2008    70.03
2008-09   11-3-2008   70.03
2008-11   12-1-2008   70.03
2009-01   2-2-2009    70.03
2009-02   2-2-2009    70.03
2009-09   2-2-2009    70.03
2009-06   5-5-2009    35.50
2009-05   6-1-2009    130.02;
                      130.99
2009-10   6-1-2009    38.30 through
                      38.39
                      94.01;
                      94.02;
                      157.01 through
                      157.07;
2009-11   8-3-2009    157.20 through
                      157.27;
                      157.40 through
                      157.43;
                      157.99
2009-12   8-3-2009    70.03
2009-16   9-8-2009    70.03
2009-17   9-8-2009    70.03
2009-19   11-2-2009   32.07
2009-21   11-2-2009   70.03
2010-01   1-4-2010    70.03
                      73.01 through
2009-20   2-1-2010    73.09;
                      73.99
2010-03   3-1-2010    70.03
2010-06   5-3-2010    70.03
2010-07   7-6-2010    70.03
2010-13   10-4-2010   70.03
2011-01   3-7-2011    35.03
2011-02   3-7-2011    35.26
2011-04   7-5-2011    70.03
2011-05   10-3-2011   96.07;
                      96.99
2011-09   10-3-2011   70.03
2011-11   10-3-2011   70.03
                      51.36;
2012-04   3-5-2012    51.39;
                      51.40;
                      51.99
2012-05   3-5-2012    52.042
2012-06   3-5-2012    35.03
2012-07   3-5-2012    154.01
2012-03   4-2-2012    TSO, Table III
2012-08   4-2-2012    70.03
2012-09   4-2-2012    70.03
2012-10   4-2-2012    96.02
2012-11   7-2-2012    70.03
2012-16   10-1-2012   70.03
2012-17   10-1-2012   35.03
2013-01   1-7-2013    TSO, Table III
2013-02   3-4-2013    70.03
2013-03   3-4-2013    70.03
2013-04   3-20-2013   TSO, Table III
                      72.01 through
2013-05   5-6-2013    72.11;
                      72.99
2013-09   6-3-2013    52.037
2013-11   10-7-2013   34.19
2013-16   10-7-2013   92.40
2013-18   12-2-2013   70.03
2014-01   1-8-2014    110.01
2014-03   2-3-2014    35.03
2014-02   3-3-2014    112.04
                      153.01 through
                      153.07;
                      153.20 through
2014-05   5-5-2014    153.23;
                      153.35 through
                      153.49;
                      153.60 through
                      153.65
2014-06   6-2-2014    70.03
2014-12   11-3-2014   TSO, Table III
                      155.01 through
2014-13   11-3-2014   155.05;
                      155.99
2014-14   11-3-2014   70.03
                      31.045;
2015-03   5-4-2015    31.046;
                      31.048;
                      31.049
2015-04   10-5-2015   70.03
2016-01   1-4-2016    70.03
2016-03   3-7-2016    TSO, Table III
2016-05   6-6-2016    35.47
                      37.001 through
                      37.003;
                      37.015 through
                      37.019;
                      37.030 through
                      37.033;
2016-04   7-5-2016    37.045 through
                      37.047;
                      37.060 through
                      37.062;
                      37.075;
                      37.076;
                      37.090 through
                      37.094
                      94.15 through
2016-07   8-1-2016    94.19;
                      94.99
2016-08   9-6-2016    70.03
2016-09   10-3-2016   92.01;
                      92.99
2016-17   12-5-2016   TSO, Table III
2016-18   12-5-2016   TSO, Table III
2017-03   3-6-2017    31.016
2017-04   3-6-2017    131.16;
                      131.17
2017-06B  7-3-2017    35.40;
                      35.41
                      92.15 through
2017-10   12-4-2017   92.26;
                      92.99
2018-01   1-2-2018    70.03
2018-03   3-5-2018    TSO, Table III
2018-04   5-7-2018    70.03
2018-06   7-2-2018    34.04
2018-08   8-6-2018    70.03
2018-09   8-6-2018    TSO, Table III
                      95.20;
2018-12   11-5-2018   95.21;
                      95.99
2018-11   12-3-2018   96.25;
                      96.99
2019-04   8-5-2019    51.36
2019-12   10-7-2019   TSO, Table III
2019-13   12-2-2019   35.03
                      90.01 through
2020-01   6-1-2020    90.10;
                      90.99
                      52.001 through
                      52.004;
                      52.020 through
                      52.022;
                      52.035 through
                      52.043;
2020-02   6-1-2020    52.056 through
                      52.058;
                      52.070 through
                      52.076;
                      52.090 through
                      52.093;
                      52.999
                      156.01 through
                      156.07;
                      156.20 through
2020-05   10-5-2020   156.25;
                      156.40 through
                      156.45;
                      156.99
2020-12   11-2-2020   33.16
                      152.01 through
                      152.04;
                      152.15 through
2020-11   12-7-2020   152.23;
                      152.35 through
                      152.44;
                      152.99
2020-13   12-7-2020   TSO, Table II
2020-14   1-4-2021    70.03
2021-01   1-4-2021    TSO, Table III
2021-02   1-4-2021    TSO, Table III
2021-03   2-1-2021    33.16
2021-04   2-1-2021    33.16
2021-05   2-1-2021    31.046;
                      31.047
2021-06   2-1-2021    TSO, Table I
2021-07   5-3-2021    35.06
2021-09   6-7-2021    35.03
                     
 
 
