TOWN OF HEBRON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through
2024-04-16 passed 4-16-2024
 
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 (800) 445-5588
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Citation of code
   
10.02   Definitions; rules of construction
   
10.03   Catchlines of sections; history notes; references
   
10.04   Effect of repeal
   
10.05   Recording and numbering
   
10.06   Copies
   
10.07   New ordinances; amending
   
10.08   Supplementing
   
10.09   Injunctions
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Existing ordinances
   
10.12   Prior offenses; rights
   
10.13   Certain ordinances
   
10.14   Errors and omissions
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 CITATION OF CODE.
   The ordinances embraced in this code and the following chapters shall
constitute and be designated the “Hebron Municipal Code” and may be so cited.
Such ordinances may also be cited as the “Municipal Code, Town of Hebron,
Indiana.”
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Codification of ordinances required, see I.C. 36-1-5-3
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS; RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE. The Hebron Municipal Code, as designated in §
10.01.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. In computing any period of time, the day of the act,
event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall
not be included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included
unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the town
office in which the act is to be done is closed during regular business hours.
In any event, the period runs until the end of the next day that is neither a
Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, nor a day on which the town office in
which the act is to be done is closed. When the period of time prescribed or
allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, legal
holidays, and days on which the town office is closed shall be excluded from
the computation.
   COUNCIL, TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Hebron, Indiana.
   COUNTY. Porter County, Indiana.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. A provision that authorizes or requires a town
officer or a town employee to perform an act or make a decision authorizes such
officer or employee to act or make a decision through subordinates.
   EMERGENCY. A situation or condition that could not reasonably be foreseen
and that threatens the public health, welfare, or safety and requires immediate
action.
   EXECUTIVE. The President of the Council.
   FISCAL BODY. The Council. See LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   FISCAL OFFICER. The Town Treasurer, who shall also be known as the CLERK-
TREASURER.
   GENDER. Words of one gender include all other genders.
   GENERALLY.
      (1)   When provisions conflict, the specific shall prevail over the
general. All provisions shall be liberally construed so that the intent of the
Council may be effectuated. Words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words, technical
phrases, and words and phrases that have acquired peculiar and appropriate
meanings in law shall be construed according to such meanings.
      (2)   This code shall be interpreted and applied so as to be the minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, and general welfare. Unless clearly in conflict with the
provisions of this code, or otherwise clearly inapplicable, the rules of
construction established for the state by statute or case law shall apply in
the construction of this code.
   I.C. The Indiana Code, as amended.
   INCLUDES. The term herein does not limit a term to a specified example.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. Words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
give such authority to a majority of such persons.
   LAW. All the rules of conduct established and enforced by authority and
legislation of the town, and shall include the constitution and statutes of the
state and ordinances of the town.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Council. See FISCAL BODY.
   MAY. The term herein is permissive and not mandatory. See SHALL.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The legal entity empowered by the statutes of the
state to conduct the affairs of the town.
   MUNICIPALITY. The area encompassed by the legal boundaries of the town over
which the legislative body has jurisdiction.
   MUST. The term herein is to be construed as being mandatory.
   NUMBER. Words in the singular include the plural. Words in the plural
include the singular.
   OATH. A solemn affirmation is the equivalent to an oath and a person shall
be deemed to have sworn if such person makes such an affirmation.
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS, AND THE LIKE. References to officers, departments,
boards, commissions, or employees are to town officers, town departments, town
boards, town commissions, and town employees.
   OR; AND. The terms herein are interchangeable, if the sense requires it.
   OWNER. As applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant
in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety of
the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON. An entity in law, including an individual, a group of individuals
acting in concert, a firm, a company, a corporation, an association, or an
institution.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any property other than real property.
   POPULATION. The persons maintaining a permanent residence within the
municipality, the total number of which is determined through the decennial
census taken by federal authority.
   PREMISES. As applied to real property, includes land and structures.
   PROPERTY. Includes real property, personal property, and mixed property.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, schoolyard, body of
water, or watercourse.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULATE. The process by which an activity having effect on the general
public, its health, safety, and welfare is implemented, and includes LICENSE,
INSPECT, CONTROL, REQUIRE, and PROHIBIT.
   RESPONSIBLE BIDDER OR QUOTER. One who is capable of performing the contract
requirements fully and who has the integrity and reliability that will assure
good faith performance, and who has submitted a bid or quote conforming in all
material respects to the specifications.
   SHALL. The term herein is to be construed as being mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK. A mark when the signer or subscriber cannot
write. In such situations, such person’s name shall be written near the mark by
a witness who writes his or her own name near such person’s name.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   STATUTE. A law enacted by a legislative body of the federal or state
government.
   STREET. Any alley, avenue, boulevard, lane, road, highway, viaduct, or other
public thoroughfare.
   TENANT, OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, include any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   TENSES. The present tense includes the past and future tenses. The future
tense includes the present tense.
   TOWN. The Town of Hebron, Porter County, Indiana, and the incorporated areas
thereof, and the body of all its citizens and its political, economic, and
social institutions.
   UNIT. Refers to the town as a political subdivision of the state.
   WEEK. A period of seven consecutive days.
   WRITING. Any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by ordinary
visual means.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
Statuatory reference:
   Similar rules of statutory construction, see I.C. 1-1-4-1 et seq.
§ 10.03 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; HISTORY NOTES; REFERENCES.
   (A)   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in
boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the
section and are not titles of such sections, or of any part of the section,
nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any such
section, including the catchline, is amended or reenacted.
   (B)   A history note appearing in parentheses after a section in this code
of ordinances indicates the legislative history and is a declaration by the
Council that the section to which the history note applies is a restatement or
reenactment of an original ordinance or amendment thereof.
   (C)   Editor’s notes, cross-references, and statutory references that appear
in this code of ordinances after sections or divisions or that otherwise appear
in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the code and
have no legal effect.
   (D)   Unless specified otherwise, all references to chapters or sections are
to chapters or sections of this code of ordinances and are references to such
provisions as amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Effect of declaration of restatement or reenactment, see I.C. 36-1-5-6
§ 10.04 EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   (A)   Unless specifically provided otherwise, the repeal of an ordinance
does not revive any ordinance previously repealed by such ordinance.
   (B)   The repeal or amendment of an ordinance does not affect any punishment
or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor does such repeal or
amendment affect any suit, prosecution, or proceeding pending at the time of
the amendment or repeal.
(Prior Code, § 1-4)
§ 10.05 RECORDING AND NUMBERING.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall create and maintain a record of all
ordinances enacted by the Council, and all such ordinances shall be bound in a
appropriate book known as the “Hebron Ordinance Book.”
   (B)   At the time of the enactment of an ordinance by the Council, it shall
be assigned a number which shall be based upon the date and the sequence of
passage.
(Prior Code, § 1-5)
§ 10.06 COPIES.
   Two copies of the Hebron Municipal Code shall be on file for public
examination at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. Public examination may take
place only during the regular business hours of said office. The Council may,
by resolution or ordinance, impose an administrative fee on the provision of
copies of the Hebron Municipal Code or portions thereof. Said fee shall be
designed for the purpose of recovering the administrative cost of producing
such copies.
(Prior Code, § 1-6)
§ 10.07 NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDING.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted subsequent to this code of ordinances that
amend, repeal, or in any way affect this code of ordinances may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of the code and printed for inclusion in
the code. Portions of this code of ordinances repealed by subsequent ordinances
may be excluded from this code of ordinances by omission from reprinted pages
affected thereby.
   (B)   Amendments to provisions of this code of ordinances may be made with
the following language: “Section (chapter, subchapter, division, or clause, as
appropriate) of the Hebron Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
”
   (C)   If a new section, clause, division, subchapter, or chapter is to be
added to the code, the following language may be used: “Section (chapter,
subchapter, division, or clause, as appropriate) of the Hebron Municipal Code
is hereby created to read as follows:”
   (D)   All provisions desired to be repealed should be repealed specifically
by section, clause, division, subchapter, or chapter number, as appropriate, or
by setting out the repealed provisions in full in the repealing ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-7)
§ 10.08 SUPPLEMENTING.
   (A)   (1)   Supplements to this code of ordinances shall be prepared and
printed whenever authorized or directed by the town. A supplement to this code
of ordinances shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of
ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes
made thereby in the code.
      (2)   The pages of the supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have
become obsolete or partially obsolete.
      (3)   The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been
inserted, the code will be current through the date of the adoption of the
latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code of ordinances, all portions of
the code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the
omission thereof from reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code of ordinances, the person
authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in
ordinances and parts or ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as
necessary to do so in order to embody them into a unified code. For example,
the person may:
      (1)   Arrange the material into appropriate organizational units;
      (2)   Supply appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for chapters,
subchapters, divisions, clauses, and sections to be included in the code and
make changes in any such catchlines, headings, and titles or in any such
catchlines, headings, and titles already in the code;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to chapters, subchapters, divisions,
clauses, and sections to be added to the code;
      (4)   Where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing
numbers assigned to chapters, subchapters, divisions, clauses, or sections;
      (5)   Change the words “this ordinance” or similar words to “this
chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this division,” “this clause,” “this section,” or
“sections _____ to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections
of the code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated
in the code); and/or
      (6)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of the ordinances inserted in the code.
(Prior Code, § 1-8)
§ 10.09 INJUNCTIONS.
   The town may bring a civil action to enjoin any person from:
   (A)   Violating an ordinance regulating or prohibiting a condition or use of
property; or
   (B)   Engaging in conduct without a license if an ordinance requires a
license to engage in that conduct.
(Prior Code, § 1-10)
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   The sections, divisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this
code of ordinances and all provisions adopted by reference in this code of
ordinances are severable, so that if any section, division, paragraph,
sentence, clause, or phrase of this code of ordinances or of any provision
adopted by reference in this code of ordinances is declared unconstitutional or
invalid by a valid judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment
shall not affect the validity of any other section, division, paragraph,
sentence, clause, or phrase of this code of ordinances or of any provision
adopted by reference in this code of ordinances, for the Council declares that
it is its intent that it would have enacted this code of ordinances and all
provisions adopted by reference in this code of ordinances without such invalid
or unconstitutional provisions.
(Prior Code, § 1-11)
§ 10.11 EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code of ordinances, insofar as they are substantially
the same as legislation previously adopted by the town relating to the same
subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations thereof
and not as new enactments.
(Prior Code, § 1-12)
§ 10.12 PRIOR OFFENSES; RIGHTS.
   Nothing in this code of ordinances or the ordinance adopting this code of
ordinances affects any offense or act committed or done, any penalty or
forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established before the effective
date of this code of ordinances. The adoption of this code of ordinances does
not authorize any use or the continuation of any use of a structure or premises
in violation of any town ordinance on the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-13)
§ 10.13 CERTAIN ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Nothing in this code of ordinances or the ordinance adopting this code
of ordinances affects the validity of any ordinances or portions of ordinances
listed in this section.
   (B)   Such ordinances continue in full force and effect to the same extent
as if published at length in this code of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance relative to the purchase or sale of property;
      (2)   Any ordinance accepting gifts and dedication of real estate;
      (3)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money by the town or authorizing the issue of bonds of the town, or other
evidence of the town’s indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by
the town;
      (4)   Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the Council not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code of ordinances;
      (5)   Any ordinances which are transfer or appropriation ordinances;
      (6)   Any ordinances changing or concerning names of streets, or opening
or closing streets;
      (7)   Any ordinances concerning annexation or disannexation of territory
to or from the town or binding boundaries of the town;
      (8)   Any ordinances which constitute amendments to the zoning map of the
town;
      (9)   Any ordinances accepting, releasing, or abandoning easements; and
      (10)   Any ordinances pertaining to zoning of land, land use and
planning, and subdivision of lands and standards for municipal improvement.
(Prior Code, § 1-14)
§ 10.14 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was/were
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   In this section, the term VIOLATION OF THIS CODE means any of the
following:
      (1)   Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
offense, a violation, or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation
authorized by ordinance;
      (2)   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; and/or
      (3)   Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made
or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation, or a misdemeanor by ordinance or
by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   (B)   In this section, the term VIOLATION OF THIS CODE does not include the
failure of a town officer or town employee to perform an official duty unless
it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be
punished as provided in this section.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, a person convicted
of a violation of this code of ordinances shall be punished by a fine of not
more than $2,500. Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, with
respect to violations of this code of ordinances that are continuous with
respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense.
   (D)   The imposition of a penalty does not prevent suspension or revocation
of a license, permit, or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
   (E)   Violations of this code of ordinances that are continuous with respect
to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other
equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive
relief.
(Prior Code, § 1-9)
Cross-reference:
   Violation schedule, see §
33.03
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see I.C. 36-1-6-1 et seq.
   Limitations on penalties, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(9) and 36-1-3-8(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Wards
§ 11.01 WARDS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-4.1, the districts of the town for the purpose of
election of officers shall be as follows.
   (A)   Town Ward/District 1.
      (1)   All residences west of the center line along Main Street (State
Road 2) on the east, to town limits on the west; and from town limits on the
north, to Park Place on the south;
      (2)   All residences north of the center line along Park Place, from Main
Street (State Road 2) on the east, to Wilson Street on the west; and west to
the town limits from this intersection;
      (3)   All residences south of the center line along Wilson Street on the
north, from town limits on the west, to Main Street (State Road 2) on the east;
and all residences north of the center line of State Road 231 on the south,
from the town limits on the west, to Washington Street on the east;
      (4)   All residences west of the center line along Washington Street,
from State Road 231 on the south, to McAlpin Street on the north;
      (5)   All residences north of the center line along McAlpin Street, from
Washington Street on the west, to Main Street (State Road 2) on the east; and
      (6)   All residences west of the center line along Main Street (State
Road 2), from McAlpin Street on the south, to Wilson Street on the north.
   (B)   Town Ward/District 2.
      (1)   All residences east of the center line along Main Street (State
Road 2), on the west, to the town limits on the east; and all residences south
of the center line along County Road 725 South, on the north; and all
residences north of the center line along East Sigler Street (State Road 8), on
the south;
      (2)   All residences south of the center line along Park Place on the
north, from Main Street (State Road 2) on the east, to Wilson Street on the
west; and all residences north of the center line along Wilson Street, from
Park Place on the West to Main Street (State Road 2) on the east;
      (3)   All residences west of the center line along Main Street (State
Road 2), from Wilson Street on the south, to Park Place on the north; and
      (4)   All residences west of the center line along Main Street (State
Road 2) on the east; and all residences east of the center line along
Washington Street on the west; and all residences south of the center line
along McAlpin Street on the north; and all residences north of the center line
along State Road 231 on the south.
   (C)   Town Ward/District 3.
      (1)   All residences west of the center line along Main Street (State
Road 2) on the east, to the town limits on the west; and all residences south
of the center line along State Road 231, on the north, to the town limits on
the south; and
      (2)   All residences east of the center line along Main Street (State
Road 2), on the west, to the town limits on the east; and all residences south
of the center line of East Sigler (State Road 8), on the north, to the town
limits on the south.
(Prior Code, § 2-31)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICERS
      
31.   FINANCES
      
32.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
33.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
34.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICERS
Section
Departments, Boards, and Commissions
   
30.01   Departments
   
30.02   Boards and commissions
   
30.03   Redevelopment Commission
Law Enforcement
   
30.15   Town Marshal
   
30.16   Deputy marshals
   
30.17   Police Department
   
30.18   Fees
DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
§ 30.01 DEPARTMENTS.
   The Council hereby establishes the following departments of the town:
   (A)   Building Department;
   (B)   Public Works Department; and
   (C)   Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 2-61)
§ 30.02 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   The Council hereby establishes the following boards and commissions as
agencies of the town:
      (1)   Plan Commission;
      (2)   Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (3)   Economic Development Commission;
      (4)   Parks and Recreation Board;
      (5)   Utility Regulatory Commission;
      (6)   Stormwater Management Board;
      (7)   Technical Advisory Committee (TAC); and
      (8)   Redevelopment Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-221)
   (B)   (1)   Any member of a commission, board, or committee of the
government of the town who determines that he or she will be unable to attend
any regular or special meeting or workshop of said commission, board, or
committee shall, as soon as reasonably practical after learning he or she will
be unable to attend a regular or special meeting or workshop, notify the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer of such fact by telephone or in person.
      (2)   If it becomes apparent to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer that a
quorum will not be present for any regular or special meeting or workshop of a
town commission, board, or committee, said Clerk-Treasurer, or agent thereof,
is hereby authorized and directed to cancel said meeting or workshop and shall,
to the extent practicable, notify the following of the cancellation:
         (a)   All commission, board, or committee members who have not
notified the Clerk-Treasurer’s office of an inability to attend the scheduled
meeting or workshop;
         (b)   The Recording Secretary, if any, of the commission, board, or
committee;
         (c)   The Town Attorney;
         (d)   The Council; and
         (e)   Any other person(s) known to be planning to attend said
cancelled meeting or workshop.
      (3)   All commissions, boards, and committees of the town shall keep
accurate, written records of the dates of all meetings and workshops; shall
keep an accurate, uniform written record of each member’s attendance, all on
forms provided by the Clerk-Treasurer; and shall report said information in
writing to the Council annually between December 1 and December 15, each year.
(Prior Code, § 2-222)
(Ord. 1998-0519, passed 5-19-1998; Ord. 2004-01-27, passed 1-27-2004)
§ 30.03 REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation of department and commission. A Department of Redevelopment,
and a board of five members, to be known and designated as the town’s
Redevelopment Commission are hereby created and established with full power and
authority to act as provided at I.C. 36-7-14-1, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 46-31)
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Redevelopment Commission shall have the powers
and duties authorized for such boards and shall conduct its business according
to applicable provisions of I.C. 36-7-14-1, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 46-32)
   (C)   Membership; terms. Commissioners shall be appointed in the manner set
out and by the respective municipal authorities indicated at I.C. 36-7-14-6.1,
and shall serve terms as set out at I.C. 36-7-14-7.
(Prior Code, § 46-33)
(Ord. 2004-01-27, passed 1-27-2004)
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 30.15 TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Council hereby establishes the office of the Town Marshal pursuant
to the provisions of I.C. 36-5-7. The office of the Town Marshal shall, for the
purposes of this code, be considered a department of the town, and the Town
Marshal shall be the department head.
   (B)   (1)   The term OFFICE OF TOWN MARSHAL may be used interchangeably with
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT, the term TOWN MARSHAL may be used interchangeably with
CHIEF OF POLICE, and the term DEPUTY MARSHAL may be used interchangeably with
POLICE OFFICER.
      (2)   However, the use of such terms shall not be interpreted to mean
that the Town Marshal system, as established by I.C. 36-5-7-1 et seq., has been
abolished or altered by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 34-1)
§ 30.16 DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   The Council may, by ordinance, authorize the Town Marshal to appoint deputy
marshals.
   (A)   Deputy marshals shall have the powers and authority of the Town
Marshal in executing the orders of the Council and in the enforcement of laws.
   (B)   The Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation, and term of
service of deputy marshals.
(Prior Code, § 34-2)
§ 30.17 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   All Police Department personnel, including full-time and part-time
employees, and volunteers, shall be required to be familiar with and comply in
all respects with the provisions of the rules and regulations of the Police
Department, and all amendments and supplements thereto, as adopted by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 34-3) (Ord. 2009-3-17, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 30.18 FEES.
   (A)   Fingerprinting fee. The Police Department is authorized to charge and
collect a fee not to exceed $25 for fingerprinting done at the request of
someone other than an employee of the town.
   (B)   Miscellaneous fees.
      (1)   Copies of accident report: $10 per report;
      (2)   Copies of police report: $10 per report;
      (3)   Copies of video recording: $50 per recording; and
      (4)   Background check: $30 per check.
(Prior Code, § 34-5) (Ord. 1997-09-16-A, passed 9-16-1997; Ord. 2016-03-22(A),
passed 3-22-2016; Ord. 2018-11-20-05, passed 11-20-2018)
CHAPTER 31: FINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Petty cash expenditures
   
31.02   Authorized credit cards
Purchasing Agency and Agent
   
31.15   Purchasing agency designated
   
31.16   Powers and duties
   
31.17   Purchasing Agent
   
31.18   Purchasing rules
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 PETTY CASH EXPENDITURES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby given authority to use up to $100 from the
petty cash account for purchases which need to be made on an immediate or
emergency basis.
(Prior Code, § 2-271) (Ord. 2002-03-19, passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.02 AUTHORIZED CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized, with the approval of the Town
Council, to apply for revolving credit card(s) on behalf of the town and the
number of credit accounts and maximum credit limit is to be determined by the
Town Council.
   (B)   Each credit card shall be issued in the name of the town.
   (C)   Each credit card(s) shall remain in the possession and control of the
Clerk-Treasurer, unless deemed necessary by the Town Council that others may
possess said card(s), and may be utilized by the Clerk-Treasurer, or other
officers and employees with the approval of the Town Council, for the purpose
of charging travel, school, lodging, and any other expenses that are directly
related to town business and when the use of a claim form and/or purchase order
is deemed not practical by the Town Council.
   (D)   No personal expenses or charges shall be made with said credit card(s)
by any person, nor shall such use be permitted or authorized by any person.
Anyone authorized to use a credit card(s) by the Clerk-Treasurer or Town
Council shall return the same to the custody of the Clerk-Treasurer immediately
after each use, unless authorized to possess the physical credit card by the
Town Council.
   (E)   No person shall cause any charge to be made on said credit card(s)
unless a sufficient appropriation exists in the appropriate line item for
payment of such charges in full on the next monthly credit card billing cycle.
Any credit charge in excess of $500 must have the approval of the Town Council.
   (F)   Any person utilizing said credit card(s) shall immediately deliver to
the Clerk-Treasurer copies of all receipts, bills, or other documents
reflecting all purchases or uses of said credit card as substantiation for each
and every charge made with said credit card(s).
   (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make payment on each
monthly credit card bill when received, after receipt of all supporting
receipts, bills, or other documentation for charges on said credit card(s).
   (H)   Any interest, late fee, or other penalty due to late filing or
furnishing of supporting documentation to the Clerk-Treasurer by any officer or
employee shall be the responsibility of that officer or employee and not the
town. The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish an accounting system or log which
shall include the names of each person requesting usage of the credit card(s),
their title, purpose for each request for use of the card(s), the estimated
amount to be charged, the fund and account numbers to be charged, the date and
time the card(s) have been issued to each person for use, and the date and time
each card is returned.
(Res. 2024-10-15-3, passed 10-15-2024)
PURCHASING AGENCY AND AGENT
§ 31.15 PURCHASING AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   The Council is designated as the purchasing agency for the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-341) (Ord. 1998-06-23, passed 6-23-1998)
§ 31.16 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized under
I.C. 5-22-1-1 et seq., as may be amended from time to time by law, or
supplemented from time to time by ordinances adopted by the Council, and
policies adopted herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-342) (Ord. 1998-06-23, passed 6-23-1998)
§ 31.17 PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   The purchasing agency shall act as purchasing agency for every agency,
board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, and department.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Purchasing Agent of the town’s
purchasing agency and may designate in writing any employee of the town as a
deputy purchasing agent.
(Prior Code, § 2-343) (Ord. 1998-06-23, passed 6-23-1998)
§ 31.18 PURCHASING RULES.
   (A)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town purchases and
shall be purchased unless the Council determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceed
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (B)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer, as Purchasing Agent under this subchapter,
shall retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and
time at which offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the
contents prior to the opening of the offers.
      (2)   After offers have been opened, the Purchasing Agent shall be
responsible for maintaining the offers in such a manner as to permit evaluation
of the offers by the persons responsible for evaluating the offers.
      (3)   Bids submitted in response to an invitation for bids must be made
available for public inspection and copying after the time of the bid opening,
unless the bid opening is delayed, as authorized in this subchapter or any
other statute or ordinance.
      (4)   The Purchasing Agent shall prepare a register of proposals for each
request for proposals issued which shall contain information concerning the
proposals available for public inspection and copying. Proposals may not be
disclosed.
   (C)   Discussions with offerors responding to request for proposals. The
Purchasing Agent may conduct discussions with and best and final offers may be
obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
   (D)   Delay of opening of offers.
      (1)   When the Council makes a written determination that it is in the
town’s best interest, offers may be opened after the time stated in the
solicitation.
      (2)   The date, time, and place of the rescheduled opening must be
announced at the time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
   (E)   Evidence of financial responsibility.
      (1)   Purchases less than $25,000. The Purchasing Agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $25,000.
      (2)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may
include a requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial
responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a
bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated
cost of the purchase.
      (3)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the
purchase.
      (4)   Small business set-asides. The Purchasing Agent may determine that
no evidence of financial responsibility shall be required for a small business
set-aside purchase.
   (F)   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies. The Council
determines that it is either not practicable or not advantageous to purchase
certain types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding, and receiving
proposals is the preferred method for purchasing those types of supplies which
are from time to time designated by the Council.
   (G)   Modification and termination of contracts.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer, as Purchasing Agent, may include provisions to
permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions for
price adjustments may be included:
         (a)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of pertinent performance or as soon after the
beginning of performance as possible;
         (b)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (c)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (d)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may have mutually agreed upon; or
         (e)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the town of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, as computed by the town in accordance with applicable ordinances
adopted by the town.
      (2)   The Purchasing Agent may include provisions in a purchase contract
concerning adjustments for time of performance under the contract.
      (3)   The Purchasing Agent may include in a purchase contract provisions
dealing with the unilateral right of the town, the Purchasing Agent, or the
President of the Council to order changes in the work within the scope of the
contract or to order temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
      (4)   The Purchasing Agent may include in a purchase contract provisions
dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of work in a contract
and the actual quantity delivered.
   (H)   Publication of notices.
      (1)   Invitation for bids.
         (a)   All notices of invitation for bids shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Vidette Times and the Chesterton Tribune, and
posted at the Town Hall and the town office of First National Bank, Valparaiso,
and offices of Galvan Law LLC.
         (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer, as Purchasing Agent, shall schedule the
publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation
and submission of bids. The notice will be published two times, at least one
week apart. The second publication must occur at least ten days prior to the
date the bids will be opened.
      (2)   Request for proposals.
         (a)   All notices of request for proposals shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Vidette Times and the Chesterton Tribune, and
posted at the Town Hall and the town office of First National Bank, Valparaiso,
and the offices of Petry Fitzgerald & Less.
         (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer, as Purchasing Agent, shall schedule the
publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation
and submission of proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least
one week apart. The second publication must occur at least ten days prior to
the date the proposals will be opened.
      (3)   Request for specifications.
         (a)   All notices of request for specifications shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Vidette Times and the Chesterton Tribune and
posted at the Town Hall and the town office of First National Bank, Valparaiso,
and the offices of Petry Fitzgerald & Less.
         (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer, as Purchasing Agent, shall schedule the
publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation
and submission of specifications. The notice will be published two times, at
least one week apart. The second publication must occur at least ten days prior
to the date the specifications will be opened.
      (4)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, a request for proposals, or a request
for specifications, is sent by mail, the Purchasing Agent may also send the
notice or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of
the information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
   (I)   Receiving offers.
      (1)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be opened
publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time and
place designated in the invitation for bids. Proposals received in response to
a request for proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure of the
contents to competing offerors during the process of negotiation. Proposals
received in response to a request for specifications may be opened as specified
in the request for specifications.
      (2)   The purchasing agency may receive electronic offers in response to
an invitation to bid, request for proposals, or request for specifications. The
purchasing agency may only receive an electronic offer if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
      (3)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time
at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting
a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after
the time at which the bids were opened. A bidder may withdraw a bid containing
inadvertent errors up to the time at which bids will be opened and for a period
of not more than 24 hours after the time at which the bids were opened.
      (4)   When the Purchasing Agent makes a written determination that it is
in the town’s best interests, the Purchasing Agent may cancel a solicitation or
reject all offers, provided that the solicitation included information
concerning the procedure for cancellation.
   (J)   Small purchases. The Purchasing Agent may purchase supplies with an
estimated cost of less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or
receiving quotes.
(Prior Code, § 2-344) (Ord. 1998-06-23, passed 6-23-1998)
CHAPTER 32: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Definitions
   
32.002   Applicability
   
32.003   Equal employment opportunity policy
   
32.004   Harassment
   
32.005   Classification of employees
Employment and Performance Requirements
   
32.020   Overview
   
32.021   Relatives of elected officials
   
32.022   Introductory period
   
32.023   Performance appraisals
   
32.024   Absenteeism and tardiness
   
32.025   Safety
   
32.026   Substance abuse
   
32.027   Dress
   
32.028   Outside employment
   
32.029   Residency requirements
   
32.030   Hours of work
   
32.031   Conflict of interest
   
32.032   Gifts and gratuities
   
32.033   Political activity
   
32.034   Public relations
Compensation and Benefits
   
32.045   Policies
   
32.046   Overtime
   
32.047   Vacations
   
32.048   Personal and medical leave days
   
32.049   Holidays
   
32.050   Other leaves
   
32.051   Travel reimbursement
Employee Discipline
   
32.065   Scope
   
32.066   Policies
   
32.067   Disciplinary actions
Drug and Alcohol Policy
   
32.080   Intent; goals
   
32.081   Rules
   
32.082   Purposes
   
32.083   Rehabilitation program and testing; payment
Holiday Gifts and Recognitions
   
32.095   Definitions
   
32.096   Gift limit
   
32.097   Number of gifts; limit
   
32.098   Recognition expenditures; limit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABSENT WITHOUT LEAVE. An employee’s absence from work without authorization
from his or her supervisor.
   APPEARANCE. An employee’s attire, personal hygiene, and personal appearance.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. A situation in which an employee has a direct or
indirect financial interest in a matter with which he or she is dealing by
virtue of his or her employment.
   DISCIPLINARY ACTION. Action taken against an employee as a result of an
infraction of rules, regulation, or policy.
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the town and classified as exempt, non-
exempt, full-time, part-time, temporary, or seasonal.
   GIFTS AND GRATUITIES. Anything of monetary value given to an employee by
virtue of his or her employment or duties.
   HOLIDAY. A paid day off in recognition of a legal holiday.
   HOURS OF WORK. The period between the designated starting and stopping times
of work, and shall include any authorized breaks or time off which may fall
within this period.
   INTOXICATION. The state of being under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or
other substances causing impairment to the employee’s judgment, mental
processes, and/or physical ability.
   LEAVES. Time off granted to an employee pursuant to this section.
   MAY. The term herein is discretionary.
   NEPOTISM. The hiring or causing to be hired of relatives.
   OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT. Employment with an employer other than the town.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Partisan political activity, including campaigning,
fund-raising, and electioneering.
   PUBLIC RELATIONS. The conduct, behavior, and appearance of an employee when
dealing with members of the public or when working in the public view.
   RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS. A condition of employment relating to the place of
residence of an employee.
   SHALL. The term herein is mandatory.
   TARDINESS. Failure to report to work at the designated starting time without
authorization from a superior.
   TRAVEL EXPENSES. An expense incurred by an employee when traveling to, from,
or during the performance of assigned duties in a location outside the town.
   VACATION. Time off from duty with pay.
(Prior Code, § 2-401)
§ 32.002 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all full-time, part-time,
temporary, and seasonal employees of the town, but shall not, with the
exception of this subchapter, include elected and appointed officials,
attorneys, or independent contractors.
(Prior Code, § 2-402)
§ 32.003 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY.
   (A)   The town, including all departments thereof, shall maintain a strong
policy of equal employment opportunity. All necessary actions shall be taken to
ensure equal employment opportunity for all employees and applicants for
employment.
   (B)   Hiring, employment, training, promotion, compensation, and discipline
shall be based upon personal competence, qualifications, and potential for
advancement, without regard for race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
national origin, age, or disability. This policy shall apply to all aspects of
employment, including recruiting, hiring, training, transfer, discipline,
promotion, job benefits, educational assistance, and social and recreational
activities.
(Prior Code, § 2-403)
§ 32.004 HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Any sexual, racial, or other forms of harassment are hereby prohibited
by this section, as well as by state and federal law. Any person making
unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or other such verbal or
physical conduct creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
environment shall be subject to disciplinary procedures as set out in this
section.
   (B)   Any employee or applicant for employment who believes he or she is
being or has been subjected to any form of harassment prohibited by this
section shall immediately notify his or her supervisor or, if necessary, any
member of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-404)
§ 32.005 CLASSIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES.
   Employees shall be placed into one of two classifications, based upon grade
level and position:
   (A)   Exempt employees. Those employees holding executive, administrative,
or professional positions such as department heads, engineers, or managers.
Exempt employees shall be ineligible for overtime compensation; and
   (B)   Non-exempt employees. Those employees holding hourly supervisory or
non-supervisory positions. Non-exempt employees shall be eligible for overtime
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2-405)
EMPLOYMENT AND PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS
§ 32.020 OVERVIEW.
   As an organization responsible for serving the public, it is necessary to
develop certain guidelines to ensure good work practices and attitudes in
dealing with the public. In establishing these rules, it is not the intention
of the town to restrict the personal rights of any individual, but to protect
the rights of all employees and ensure the effective delivery of services to
the public. Employees are therefore expected to be:
   (A)   On time and alert when scheduled for work;
   (B)   Careful and conscientious in the performance of their duties;
   (C)   Thoughtful and considerate of other people; and
   (D)   Courteous and helpful, both when dealing with the public and with
other employees and town officials.
(Prior Code, § 2-421)
§ 32.021 RELATIVES OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012, the town shall have a nepotism and a contracting with
a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter “Nepotism Policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter “Contracting with
a Unit by a Relative Policy”) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town’s Nepotism Policy is hereby established effective July 1,
2012, by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition, a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2 in effect on July 1 is attached to the
ordinance from which this section is derived.
   (D)   The town’s Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition, a copy of the I.C. 36-1-21 in effect on July
1 is attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and, therefore, without such authority by the majority, he or she
will not be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-5-2-9.4.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement, or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority, the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the Nepotism Policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of either
the Nepotism Policy or Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy may be
subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the Contracting with a Unit by a Relative
Policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of either the Nepotism Policy or
the Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy may be subject to action
allowed by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-422) (Ord. 2012-06-19, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.022 INTRODUCTORY PERIOD.
   (A)   New full-time employees shall be subject to a six-month evaluation or
introductory period to verify skills, capabilities, and suitability for their
position. This shall not be interpreted to mean that the town shall have an
obligation to employ any person until the end of this time period. During this
period, either the town or the employee may terminate employment without cause
and without advance notice.
   (B)   Full-time employees shall be eligible for all employment benefits
during the introductory period with the exception of health insurance, for
which eligibility will begin the first of the month following the ninetieth day
of employment, and they may not use accrued vacation or personal days.
(Prior Code, § 2-423) (Ord. 2011-02-15, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 32.023 PERFORMANCE APPRAISALS.
   Newly hired employees shall receive performance appraisals after 30 days,
and a formal evaluation after six months. Thereafter, all employees shall
receive an annual performance appraisal. The purpose of the performance
appraisal is to establish goals and to improve job performance both through
maximizing job strengths and stressing improvements of job weakness.
(Prior Code, § 2-424)
§ 32.024 ABSENTEEISM AND TARDINESS.
   Employees shall report for work on or before the scheduled time and complete
the entire work shift. Any employee who will be absent for work for any reason
shall notify his or her supervisor within 30 minutes of the scheduled start
time. Repeated absenteeism and/or tardiness shall be cause for disciplinary
action up to and including termination.
(Prior Code, § 2-425)
§ 32.025 SAFETY.
   (A)   Employees shall share responsibility for their own safety and for the
safety of other employees and the public. Employees shall observe all posted
safety rules, comply with all safety rules and regulations and directives, and
report any unsafe conditions.
   (B)   All employees shall adhere to the safety rules and procedures as set
out in the town’s Safety Manual. Each employee shall obtain and sign for a copy
of the Safety Manual and shall familiarize himself or herself with the contents
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-426)
§ 32.026 SUBSTANCE ABUSE.
   (A)   Employees shall not use alcohol or illegal drugs while on duty.
   (B)   Employees shall not use legal substances which impair the ability and/
or judgment of the employee while on duty without the advice of a physician. In
those cases, said use must be immediately reported to the supervisor for
determination of fitness for the specific duty assigned.
   (C)   (1)   Employees shall not report to work intoxicated or otherwise
under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs.
      (2)   The terms INTOXICATED and UNDER THE INFLUENCE shall be strictly
defined to include any amount of alcohol or illegal drugs.
   (D)   Employees who are repeatedly absent or tardy to work due to alcohol or
illegal drug use shall be required to obtain a medical evaluation in
conjunction with any disciplinary action and shall be further required to
comply with any and all recommendations and treatment plans developed through
such an evaluation.
   (E)   Employees who violate this section shall be subject to disciplinary
action. The town specifically enacts this section as a zero-tolerance policy
for alcohol and illegal drug use while on duty and to comply with the standards
of an alcohol and drug-free workplace.
(Prior Code, § 2-427) (Ord. 2004-4-2A, passed 4-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.027 DRESS.
   Employees shall report for work wearing clothing appropriate to their
duties, or as designated by the department rules or supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 2-428)
§ 32.028 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The activities of employees during non-working hours are not limited
by the town, unless those activities interfere with or are in conflict with the
performance of duties as a town employee.
   (B)   Outside employment by police officers may be further limited by the
Police Department’s rules and regulations to the extent such employment may
impose legal liabilities upon the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-429)
§ 32.029 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upon employment by the town, full-time employees, with the exception
of police officers, shall have six months in which to establish residence no
more than 20 miles from the nearest boundary of the town.
   (B)   In the event a new employee shall experience difficulty in complying
with this section, that employee shall notify his or her supervisor at least 30
days prior to the expiration of said time limit. The Council may extend this
time period in its discretion.
   (C)   Residency requirements for the Town Marshal and deputy marshals shall
be those set out in section 34-4.
(Prior Code, § 2-430)
§ 32.030 HOURS OF WORK.
   The hours of work for employees shall be set by the department head.
(Prior Code, § 2-431)
§ 32.031 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   An employee having a financial interest in a company, firm, or matter which
might benefit from dealings with the town shall either divest himself or
herself of such interest, or report the conflict of interest to the Council
through the department’s supervisor, and shall comply with all reporting
requirements as established by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 2-432)
§ 32.032 GIFTS AND GRATUITIES.
   Employees shall not accept any gifts, gratuities, tokens, services, or other
items of monetary value in excess of $5 from any individual, firm, or
corporation that might benefit from such action.
(Prior Code, § 2-433)
§ 32.033 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   No employee shall use his or her position and/or time during working hours
to participate or assist in any political campaign or cause.
(Prior Code, § 2-434)
§ 32.034 PUBLIC RELATIONS.
   Employees shall be courteous and professional in dealing with the public in
person, by telephone, and by correspondence. Complaints regarding an employee
will be investigated and may result in disciplinary action.
(Prior Code, § 2-435)
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
§ 32.045 POLICIES.
   Compensation in the form of salary or wages shall be paid to all employees
of the town in accordance with the statutes of the state governing municipal
employees.
   (A)   The amount of salary of the hourly wages paid to employees shall be
set at the discretion of the Council.
   (B)   For all employees, other than Police Department employees, the
standard pay period is bi-weekly (ten working days) beginning on Sunday at 12:
01 a.m. When a payday falls on a holiday, paychecks shall be distributed on the
last working day prior to the holiday. Law enforcement personnel shall have a
standard bi-weekly pay period of 14 days, beginning on Sunday at 12:01 a.m. and
the town shall follow the Fair Labor Standards Act’s, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et
seq., guidelines concerning overtime, which shall accrue after 86 hours during
each work period.
   (C)   The following statement, signed by the department head, must be
submitted with payroll hours:
The undersigned hereby certifies that the foregoing represents a true and
accurate report of the hours worked by the foregoing employees in my department
for the dates specified.
__________________________________
(Signature)
__________________________________
(Typed or Printed Name)
__________________________________
(Department)
(Prior Code, § 2-451) (Ord. 2007-2-20A, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 32.046 OVERTIME.
   (A)   The town shall compensate its employees for overtime work in
accordance with state and federal law. An attempt to plan overtime compensation
shall be made with consideration for the employees and the effective delivery
of services to the public.
   (B)   (1)   Only non-exempt employees must receive advance authorization
from the department’s supervisor to work overtime. All authorized overtime
shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half.
      (2)   Overtime of less than 15 minutes worked in excess of eight hours
per day shall not be compensated.
   (C)   Overtime by employees of the Police Department shall be in accordance
with the Police Department rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-452)
§ 32.047 VACATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All full-time employees are eligible for vacation. Temporary and
part-time employees who work less than 1,664 hours per year are not eligible
for vacation.
      (2)   Annual vacations are determined by length of service and are
accrued as follows:
 
Length of Service  Days of Vacation Accrued Annually
1 year to 4 years  10
5 years to 9 years 15
10 years and over  20
 
   (B)   (1)   Vacations may be taken at any time during the year following
accrual; however, they should be scheduled so as not to conflict with vacations
taken by other employees and with the needs of the town.
      (2)   (a)   Specific vacation dates are subject to a vacation bid sheet
which all employees shall receive on or before November 15 each year.
         (b)   Vacation bid sheets are to be submitted to the department head
on or before December 15 each year.
         (c)   Vacations shall be posted on or before December 20 each year.
      (3)   Vacations may be changed with the permission of the department
head. Accrued vacation time must be taken in the year following accrual, and
shall not carry over from year to year.
(Prior Code, § 2-453) (Ord. 2000-12-28A, passed 12-28-2000)
§ 32.048 PERSONAL AND MEDICAL LEAVE DAYS.
   (A)   Personal leave days. It shall be the policy of the town to grant
personal leave time to all employees, subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   Personal leave time is to be utilized for the following purposes:
         (a)   Illness or non-work-related injuries of employee; or
         (b)   Personal business.
      (2)   Every full-time employee shall be granted personal leave time at
the rate of one day for each two months of service during the year, plus one
additional day per year.
      (3)   Employees may use up to a maximum of six personal leave days per
year.
      (4)   (a)   Any unused personal days may not carry over to the next
calendar year, unless otherwise approved by the department head based on the
operational needs of the department.
         (b)   Any such days approved to be carried over to the next calendar
year must be utilized within that year or forfeited,
      (5)   Upon separation of employment from the town, any unused personal
leave days accrued will be forfeited.
   (B)   Leave time for medical purposes.
      (1)   It is the policy of the town to provide a leave of absence in
accordance with the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) of 1993, being 29
U.S.C. §§ 2611 et seq.
      (2)   (a)   In accordance with the FMLA, eligible employees may receive
up to a total of 12 weeks of unpaid leave in a 12-month period.
         (b)   Employees will be entitled to return to the same or an
equivalent position at the conclusion of the leave if they are able to perform
the essential functions of the position.
      (3)   A MAJOR ILLNESS OR INJURY shall be defined as any illness or injury
which will require the employee to be unable to work at his or her regular
employment for a minimum of ten working days.
      (4)   Allowance of payment of the employee’s regular salary, or any part
thereof, shall be at the sole discretion of the Council and the length of time
for said pay shall be at the sole discretion of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-454) (Ord. 1997-09-02, passed 9-2-1997; Ord. 2000-11-21B,
passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2002-05-06, passed 5-6-2002; Ord. 2002-05-21, passed 5-
21-2002; Ord. 2023-08-15-3, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 32.049 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All full-time employees shall receive the same number of holiday
leaves each year pursuant to division (B) below, to include:
New Year’s Day       January 1
President’s Day      Third Monday in February
Memorial Day           Last Monday in May
Juneteenth             June 19
Independence Day       July 4
Labor Day              First Monday in September
Veteran’s Day        November 11
Thanksgiving Day       Fourth Thursday in November
Day after Thanksgiving Day after fourth Thursday in November
Christmas Eve          December 24
Christmas Day          December 25
 
   (B)   Employees who are scheduled to work the day immediately prior to or
immediately after a holiday listed in division (A) above, but who do not work
said scheduled day for any reason whatsoever, shall not receive payment for the
holiday. All other holiday leaves shall be paid as a full day.
   (C)   Holidays for sworn officers of the Police Department shall be in
accordance with the Police Department rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-455) (Ord. 2002-05-21B, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 2009-12-22,
passed 12-22-2009; Ord. 2010-04-20, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2017-01-17A, passed
1-17-2017; Ord. 2020-01-28-02, passed 1-28-2020; Ord. 2022-2-15-3, passed 2-15-
2022)
§ 32.050 OTHER LEAVES.
   (A)   Military leave.
      (1)   An employee who is a member of the Reserve Armed Forces of the
state or the United States shall be entitled to a leave of absence without loss
of pay for not more than 15 calendar days annually.
      (2)   To receive such leave, the employee must bring notification of
service papers upon receipt to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Family and medical leave. The town shall comply with all state and
federal laws and regulations, including the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
of 1993, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 2611 et seq., as amended. Employees shall be
granted unpaid leave:
      (1)   To care for the employee’s child after birth or placement for
adoption or foster care;
      (2)   To care for the employee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent who has
a serious health condition;
      (3)   For a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to
perform the employee’s job; and
      (4)   Certain kinds of paid leave may be substituted for unpaid leave.
The employee shall provide advance leave notice and medical certification of at
least 30 days, where the leave is foreseeable.
   (C)   Civil leave.
      (1)   Leave with pay shall be granted to full-time employees required to
serve on a jury or serve as a witness in any local, state, or federal court.
      (2)   Proof of jury duty shall be in the form of a pay voucher for such
services. Appearing in any court as a litigant shall not qualify an employee
for compensated civic leave.
   (D)   Bereavement leave.
      (1)   Full-time employees shall be granted up to three days leave with
pay upon the death of the employee’s parent, child, spouse, sibling,
grandparent, grandchild, or spouse’s parent, child, sibling, or grandparent.
      (2)   This leave may be extended at the discretion of the Council.
   (E)   Training leave.
      (1)   Employees may be granted paid leave for the purpose of
participating in training which will increase the knowledge and efficiency of
the employees in their position with the town. Such leave shall be granted at
the discretion of the Council.
      (2)   If such training is directly related to the business of the town,
the cost of such training may be paid by the town upon the successful
completion of the training. The costs of training shall be limited to
registration or tuition fees, textbooks, or other training materials not
readily obtainable by the town.
      (3)   Transportation and lodging may be paid at the discretion of the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-456) (Ord. 1997-09-02, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 32.051 TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   The Council must approve all employees’ out-of-town function requests
prior to the employees attending said function.
   (B)   Employees shall be reimbursed $41 per day for meal expenses while
attending out-of-town functions.
   (C)   Employees using their own vehicles shall be reimbursed for mileage at
the current Internal Revenue mileage rate. Said employees shall report their
beginning mileage and ending mileage.
   (D)   Employees using town vehicles shall be reimbursed for the cost of fuel
upon presentation of a fuel invoice.
   (E)   Employees’ housing allowance will be at the rate not to exceed the
group rate in effect at the hotel/motel where the event is taking place upon
presentation of a paid statement.
(Prior Code, § 2-457) (Res. 2004-7-20A, passed 7-20-2004)
EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE
§ 32.065 SCOPE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to all employees with the exception of
police officers (deputy marshals).
   (B)   The discipline of police officers shall be controlled by state
statutes and by the Police Department’s rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-481)
§ 32.066 POLICIES.
   (A)   The policy of the town in formulating its employee disciplinary
procedure is to ensure an equitable, uniformly enforced policy.
   (B)   Employment with the town creates no duty or obligation, contractual or
otherwise, on the part of the town for continued employment, nor does it create
any right on the part of the employee for continued employment. The town
retains the authority to terminate an employment relationship with an employee
for any reason not prohibited by law, at any time, and with or without notice.
   (C)   Employees shall provide a minimum of two weeks’ notice before
terminating employment. Accrued vacation pay is forfeited if there is less than
two weeks’ notice before voluntary termination. Employees leaving without
notice shall be considered as voluntary terminations with accrued vacation pay
and accrued personal leave days being forfeited.
   (D)   It shall be the general policy of the town to impose a progressive
system of discipline as a means of encouraging quality work performance and
discouraging violations of policies, rules, and regulations. However, severe
discipline, including demolition, transfer, suspension, and termination, may be
imposed depending upon the nature and severity of the offense of violation.
(Prior Code, § 2-482)
§ 32.067 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   (A)   Unacceptable job performance.
      (1)   Verbal warning. The manager or supervisor shall first advise the
employee verbally that the employee is not performing to acceptable standards.
The manager or supervisor shall inform or review with the employee the
acceptable standards and the employee’s specific deficiencies.
      (2)   Written warning. If satisfactory improvements are not exhibited
after a verbal warning, and within a maximum of 30 days after the verbal
warning, a written warning will be given to the employee for review and action,
which warning shall be entered into the employee’s personnel file. Also, if the
employee commits another similar offense or violation, or exhibits similar
performance deficiencies after a verbal warning, the manager or supervisor
should issue a written warning.
      (3)   Suspension, transfer, and/or demotion. If the employee’s
performance does not improve following a written warning, but the manager or
supervisor believes the employee is still capable of improvement, the manager
or supervisor may demote, transfer, or suspend the employee, with said
suspension being for a period of one to three days in duration.
      (4)   Termination. If the employee’s performance continues to be
deficient, his or her employment shall be terminated.
   (B)   Insubordination. INSUBORDINATION shall be defined as the refusal of an
employee to perform an assigned duty when such assignment is made legitimately
and with due regard for the employee’s mental and physical well-being.
Insubordination shall also include untruthfulness to the employee’s supervisor.
Depending upon the nature and severity of the subordination, the manager or
supervisor may elect to by-pass the written warning and/or verbal warning in
favor of a more severe form of discipline.
   (C)   Theft or destruction of property; causing injury. An employee who
steals, converts, takes without authorization, intentionally damages, or
destroys town property or the property of another during the course of his or
her employment, or who intentionally or recklessly causes the injury of another
person, shall be subject to severe disciplinary action, including termination.
   (D)   Criminal conviction. An employee convicted of a misdemeanor may be
subjected to severe disciplinary action, depending upon the severity of the
offense and whether the activity for which the employee is convicted reflects
adversely on the town or on the employee’s ability to perform his or her job.
An employee convicted of a felony shall be immediately terminated.
   (E)   Harassment. An employee who violates the policies of the town relating
to sexual harassment and to equal opportunity shall be subjected to severe
disciplinary action, depending upon the nature and severity of the offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-483)
DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY
§ 32.080 INTENT; GOALS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to comply with I.C. 36 and to provide a
safe and drug-free working environment for all employees. It is also the town’s
policy to assist employees who have a problem with drug and alcohol abuse.
   (B)   These goals mandate that the town establish a long-term and firm
policy and drug-free awareness program against drug and alcohol abuse in the
workplace.
   (C)   The town’s goal is to eliminate the abuse, not to eliminate the
abuser. The goal is to help, not to apprehend.
(Prior Code, § 2-501) (Ord. 1998-12-15, passed 12-15-1998)
§ 32.081 RULES.
   The following rules represent the town’s policy concerning substance abuse
and will be enforced uniformly with respect to all employees, as indicated.
   (A)   All employees are prohibited from being under the influence of
alcohol, controlled substances, or illegal drugs during working hours.
   (B)   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, sale,
possession, transfer, or purchase of illegal drugs on town property or while
performing town business is strictly prohibited. Such action will be reported
to appropriate law enforcement officials.
   (C)   A finding of fact by the Council that the employee used, sold, or
possessed an illegal drug, alcoholic beverage, or controlled substance (other
than law enforcement officers in the performance of their duties) while on duty
is cause for being terminated, suspended, or disciplined.
   (D)   No alcoholic beverages may be brought or consumed on the job site.
Employees may be tested for alcohol and/or drugs with or without cause at any
time or for any reason at the discretion of the Council. Anyone testing above
0.02% will be considered positive for alcohol.
   (E)   No prescription drugs may be brought on the town’s premises by any
employee other than the one for whom it is prescribed. Such drugs must be used
only in the manner, combination, and quantity prescribed.
   (F)   (1)   Any employee whose off-duty abuse of alcohol or illegal or
prescription drugs results in excessive absenteeism or tardiness or is the
cause of accidents or poor work will be referred to an employee assistance
program for rehabilitation and will face termination if he or she rejects that
program.
      (2)   An employee returning from a leave of absence will be required to
“retest.”
   (G)   (1)   As a condition of employment, the employee will abide by the
terms stated previously, and will notify the town of any criminal drug statute
conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace no later than five days
following any such criminal conviction.
      (2)   Any conviction will subject the employee to the same disciplinary
procedures as those employees who test positive under drug screening
procedures.
      (3)   As a condition of employment, any new employee of the town must
successfully pass a drug and/or alcohol test prior to the commencement of
employment.
(Prior Code, § 2-502) (Ord. 1998-12-15, passed 12-15-1998)
§ 32.082 PURPOSES.
   (A)   The purposes of the policy set forth in §
32.081 are to:
      (1)   Establish and maintain a safe and healthful working environment for
all employees;
      (2)   Reduce the number of accidental injuries to person or property;
      (3)   Reduce absenteeism and tardiness, and to improve productivity;
      (4)   Provide rehabilitation assistance for any employee who seeks such
help; and
      (5)   Comply with the United States Drug-Free Workplace Act, being 41
U.S.C. §§ 8101 et seq.
   (B)   The town regrets any inconvenience or problems that the policy may
cause but believes that the overall benefit to the town and the employee make
it both necessary and helpful.
(Prior Code, § 2-503) (Ord. 1998-12-15, passed 12-15-1998)
§ 32.083 REHABILITATION PROGRAM AND TESTING; PAYMENT.
   The cost of any rehabilitation program and subsequent testing will be borne
by the employee.
(Prior Code, § 2-504) (Ord. 1998-12-15, passed 12-15-1998)
HOLIDAY GIFTS AND RECOGNITIONS
§ 32.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOLIDAY GIFT. Anything of monetary value given to an employee by virtue of
his or her employment or duties.
   RECOGNITION. Anything of monetary value given to an employee by virtue of
his or her employment or duties and based on his or her record of performance
on the job.
(Prior Code, § 2-521) (Ord. 2001-11-20, passed 11-20-2001)
§ 32.096 GIFT LIMIT.
   Holiday gifts shall be limited to no more than $25 in value per employee per
gift.
(Prior Code, § 2-522) (Ord. 2001-11-20, passed 11-20-2001)
§ 32.097 NUMBER OF GIFTS; LIMIT.
   Holiday gifts shall be limited to no more than two holiday gifts per
employee per year.
(Prior Code, § 2-523) (Ord. 2001-11-20, passed 11-20-2001)
§ 32.098 RECOGNITION EXPENDITURES; LIMIT.
   Each recognition expenditure shall be limited to no more than $25 in value
per employee.
(Prior Code, § 2-524) (Ord. 2001-11-20, passed 11-20-2001)
CHAPTER 33: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
33.01   Creation
   
33.02   Violations Clerk
   
33.03   Violations
   
33.04   Trial; civil penalty
   
33.05   Denial; prosecution
§ 33.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby created an Ordinance Violations Bureau for the town,
pursuant to I.C. 33-6-3-1 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-371)
§ 33.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall serve as the Violations Clerk, and
shall administer the Bureau.
      (2)   For purposes of this chapter, CLERK-TREASURER shall include
employees, staff, agents, appointees, and designees of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Violations Clerk shall accept written appearances, waivers of
trial, admissions of violations, and payment of civil penalties in the amounts
and for the violations as set out herein.
   (C)   The Violations Clerk shall establish forms for the issuance of
violation citations, waivers of trial, admissions of violations, denial of
violations, and requests for trial, which forms may be amended at the
discretion of the Violations Clerk.
   (D)   The Violations Clerk shall, through the office of the Clerk-Treasurer,
disburse funds as follows: 100% to the general fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-372) (Ord. 2006-1-17A, passed 1-17-2006; Ord. 2008-5-20,
passed 5-20-2008)
§ 33.03 VIOLATIONS.
   The following are subject to admission of violation before the Violations
Clerk.
Violation Civil Penalty
Violation                                                   Civil Penalty
Curfew                                                      $50/$150
Damage to streets                                           $500
Dumping at sewer plant outside posted areas or in incorrect $500
refuse pile
Firearms                                                    $200
Fireworks                                                   $100
Handicapped parking                                         $75
Hazardous substances                                        $500
House numbers                                               $75
Interference with water system                              $500
Littering                                                   $200
Nuisances                                                   $150
Outside storage of non-operable vehicles                    $75 per day
Parabolic and dish antennas                                 $50
Parking of trucks, buses, trailers, and RVs                 $75
Parking where prohibited                                    $75
Park rules and regulations                                  $100
Snow removal                                                $75
Truck routes                                                $350
Water rationing                                             $50
Weeds, yard maintenance, and grass clippings                $100
Weight limits                                               $400
 
(Prior Code, § 2-373) (Ord. 2006-10-17A, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 2007-10,
passed 7-10-2007; Ord. 2008-6-17, passed 6-17-2008; Ord. 2018-11-20-03, passed
11-20-2018)
§ 33.04 TRIAL; CIVIL PENALTY.
   (A)   A person charged with an ordinance violation under this chapter is
entitled to a trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives
the right to trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations
Clerk.
   (B)   Upon such an admission, the Violations Clerk shall assess and receive
from the violator the amount prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties
established under §
33.03.
   (C)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted, and accounted for by the
Violations Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts.
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person,
by mail, or to an agent or agents designated by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-374)
§ 33.05 DENIAL; PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person charged with a violation under this chapter wants to
exercise the right to trial, the person shall appear before the Violations
Clerk and deny the violation or enter a written denial with the Violations
Clerk.
   (B)   If a person denies an ordinance violation under this chapter, or fails
to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk after having
entered an admission of violation, or fails to deny or admit the violation
under this chapter, the Violations Clerk shall report this fact to the legal
counsel for the town, who shall have the responsibility to prosecute ordinance
violation cases for the town in the county courts.
(Prior Code, § 2-375)
CHAPTER 34: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Voting
   
34.02   Public documentation; requests
   
34.03   Motor vehicle driving policy
§ 34.01 VOTING.
   (A)   A majority of all the elected members of the Council constitutes a
quorum.
   (B)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all the
elected members.
   (C)   Whenever the Council has an even number of members for any reason, the
Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member, and may cast the deciding vote to
break a tie.
(Prior Code, § 2-32)
§ 34.02 PUBLIC DOCUMENTATION; REQUESTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COPYING FEE. The fee charged by the town for copies of public records.
      EXCEPTIONS TO PUBLIC RECORDS. The term herein is currently defined by
I.C. 5-14-3-4 or as amended by the state legislature from time to time.
      PUBLIC RECORDS. The term herein is currently defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2 or
as amended by the state legislature from time to time.
      REASONABLE PARTICULARITY. The term herein is currently defined by I.C. 5-
14-3-3(a) or as amended by the state legislature from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2-551)
   (B)   Form of requests. All requests made under this section shall be made
in writing to the town, on a form provided by the town and made available at
the Town Hall, and shall request the information sought with reasonable
particularity.
(Prior Code, § 2-552)
   (C)   Fee schedule. All requests which require the use of a copy machine
shall be charged a per copy rate of $0.10 per page. All requests which require
a facsimile machine shall be charged $0.10 per page plus the actual cost of the
phone call, if any. All certification of public documents shall be at no
charge. This fee schedule represents the ACTUAL COST as defined by the State
Public Records Act, being I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-553)
   (D)   Conflicts with State Public Records Act. Any section of this chapter
which is or may be in conflict with the State Public Records Act, as set forth
at I.C. 5-14-3 et seq., shall be deemed void, and that section of the State
Public Records Act shall be used in place of said section.
(Prior Code, § 2-554)
(Ord. 2002-1-15, passed 1-15-2002)
§ 34.03 MOTOR VEHICLE DRIVING POLICY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMPLOYEE DRIVER(S). Any and all paid or unpaid employees, applicants for
employment, volunteers, and other person who may be required or permitted to
operate any motor vehicle while performing that person’s duties on behalf of
the city.
   (B)   Operator’s licenses.
      (1)   Each employee driver of the town shall at all times maintain a
current valid state operator’s license. Any employee driver failing to maintain
a current valid operator’s license shall be prohibited from operating any motor
vehicle while performing any duties on behalf of the town.
      (2)   Any employee driver whose operator’s license is suspended, revoked,
or otherwise invalid is immediately prohibited from operating any vehicle while
performing that person’s duties on behalf of the town. Each employee driver
shall immediately notify his or her immediate supervisor if his or her
operator’s license has been suspended, revoked, or become invalid in any way.
Each employee driver is responsible for knowing the status of his or her
operator’s license.
      (3)   (a)   In order to ensure compliance with the foregoing
requirements, each employee driver shall provide to the Clerk-Treasurer a copy
of his or her operator’s license and shall further execute at least once per
year, and more frequently as required by the town, the attached valid license
statement and consent for driver’s license record check.
         (b)   It shall be the responsibility of the Clerk-Treasurer to obtain
and review a State Bureau of Motor Vehicles driver’s license abstract for each
applicant for employment of an employee driver position. It shall further be
the responsibility of the Clerk-Treasurer to obtain and review a State Bureau
of Motor Vehicles driver’s license abstract for all existing employee drivers
at least one time per calendar year.
      (4)   Prior to obtaining the driving record of an employee driver, a
written authorization will be obtained from that employee driver. Any time any
of the above actions are taken, the employee driver will be provided with a
pre-adverse action disclosure which includes a copy of the driver’s MVR and a
copy of a summary of his or her rights under the Fair Credit Reporting Act,
being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq. In addition, that employee driver will be given
notice either orally, in writing, or electronically that the action has been
taken in an adverse action notice.
   (C)   Duty to operate safely and legally.
      (1)   Each employee driver is required to operate motor vehicles in a
safe and legal manner whether on or off duty with the town. This includes the
use of seatbelts by all employee drivers and their passengers at all times
required by law and compliance with any restrictions on the employee driver’s
operator’s license.
      (2)   Any employee who is found guilty or pays a bond forfeiture on an
offense for which points may be charged under 140 I.A.C. 1-4.5-10 shall
immediately report that fact to the Clerk-Treasurer. This requirement shall
apply to all offenses described above regardless of whether the offense is
committed while the employee driver is on or off duty with the town.
   (D)   Operation under the influence of substances, distracted driving, and
other unsafe practices.
      (1)   Employee drivers shall not operate any motor vehicle while
performing duties on behalf of the town while impaired due to alcohol,
prescription or non-prescription drugs, or any other legal or illegal substance
(s).
      (2)   Employee drivers shall not at any time engage in any activities
that distract their attention from the operation of any motor vehicles while
performing duties on behalf of the town. This shall include but not be limited
to the use of cellular telephones, computers, electronic navigation devices,
and/or text messaging devices.
   (E)   Accident reports. An employee driver involved in a motor vehicle
accident while performing duties on behalf of the town shall cooperate in the
filing of all law enforcement reports required by law and, in addition, shall
immediately inform his or her supervisor and complete a full and accurate
report on the form prescribed by the town.
   (F)   Discipline. The failure to comply with any of the foregoing
requirements, a conviction or payment of a bond forfeiture as described above,
and/or the imposition of a driving prohibition as described above may result in
disciplinary action including, but not limited to, placement on restricted
duty, administrative leave, suspension, or termination.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
(Ord. 2015-12-22, passed 12-22-2015)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   GARBAGE
      
54.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
      
55.   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGES
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Utility Regulatory Commission
   
50.01   Creation
   
50.02   Utilities removed
Public Works Department
   
50.15   Establishment; purpose
   
50.16   Public Works Director
   
50.17   Water treatment and distribution
   
50.18   Wastewater treatment and collection
   
50.19   Streets and parks
   
50.20   Job classifications; requirements
   
50.21   Technical and professional assistance
Enforcement
   
50.35   Remedies
   
50.36   Administrative appeals
   
50.37   Judicial enforcement remedies
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Health and sanitation; nuisances, see
Ch. 93
Organizations and officers, see
Ch. 30
Parks and recreation, see
Ch.94
Streets, sidewalks, and public property, see
Ch. 152
UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION
§ 50.01 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the town’s Utility Regulatory Commission,
pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5.
   (B)   The membership of the Utility Regulatory Commission shall be composed
of the duly elected, qualified, and acting members of the Council.
   (C)   Control of all utilities owned by the town shall be vested in said
Utility Regulatory Commission, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The recommendations of rates and charges of the Public Works
Department;
      (2)   The management of employees;
      (3)   Any and all matters pertaining to the general operation of said
utilities; and
      (4)   All other powers and duties enumerated in I.C. 8-1.5-3-4.
(Prior Code, § 66-31)
§ 50.02 UTILITIES REMOVED.
   Pursuant to the procedural requirements contained in I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1, the
town’s utilities are hereby removed from the jurisdiction of the Utility
Regulatory Commission of the state for the approval of rates and notes or other
evidence of indebtedness.
(Prior Code, § 66-32)
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
§ 50.15 ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.
   The Council hereby establishes the Department of Public Works to provide the
following:
   (A)   An efficient and economic means of coordinating the efforts of its
various divisions: water treatment and distribution, wastewater treatment and
collection, and parks and streets, through centralized administration and
project management; and
   (B)   Professional and technical support to the various boards, commissions,
departments, and committees as established by this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-81)
§ 50.16 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   The office of the Public Works Director shall be responsible for:
   (A)   The administration of all divisions of the Public Works Department;
   (B)   Project management of all projects related to the various divisions,
either individually or as a group;
   (C)   Preparation of an annual budget for the Public Works Department and
each of its divisions, and the presentation thereof to the Council for review
and acceptance;
   (D)   Review and final approval of all departmental purchases through the
issuance of purchase orders;
   (E)   Issuance of all work orders related to the Public Works Department and
each of its divisions;
   (F)   Filing of all federal, state, and local reports required for the
various divisions;
   (G)   Filing of all monthly reports of operation to the Council;
   (H)   Making recommendations to the Council for public works projects and
purchases;
   (I)   Providing professional and technical support to the boards and
commissions of the town as required by this code of ordinances and at the
direction of the Council; and
   (J)   Any and all other administrative or engineering projects as directed
by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-82)
§ 50.17 WATER TREATMENT AND DISTRIBUTION.
   The Division of Water Treatment and Distribution of the Public Works
Department shall be responsible for the water treatment plant, wells, elevated
storage structures, distribution mains, and all other appurtenances associated
with these areas, including the monthly reading of all water meters for
customer billing purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-83)
§ 50.18 WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND COLLECTION.
   The Division of Wastewater Treatment and Collection of the Public Works
Department shall be responsible for all aspects of operations and maintenance
for the wastewater treatment plant, lift stations, collections mains, and
related structures.
(Prior Code, § 2-84)
§ 50.19STREETS AND PARKS.
   The Division of Streets and Parks of the Public Works Department shall be
responsible for the maintenance of all streets, stormwater systems associated
with the streets, and parks of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-85)
§ 50.20 JOB CLASSIFICATIONS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Director of Public Works.
      (1)   The Public Works Director shall be responsible for all
administrative, planning, and technical duties related to the Public Works
Department and its divisions, and provide technical assistance to the various
boards and commissions of the town.
      (2)   This position requires degrees in either engineering, planning, or
public administration, with an advanced degree preferred.
      (3)   The Public Works Director reports directly to the Council.
   (B)   Superintendent of Public Works.
      (1)   The Superintendent shall be responsible for the day-to-day
operations of all divisions, provides weekly planning guides, and assists the
Public Works Director in project planning.
      (2)   This position requires all state-mandated licensing for utilities
and an additional knowledge of utility and general construction practices.
      (3)   A technical degree in construction or environmental engineering is
preferred. The Superintendent reports directly to the Public Works Director.
   (C)   Public Works Foreperson.
      (1)   The Foreperson is responsible for on-site supervision of all
division personnel, and assists in all projects as assigned by the
Superintendent.
      (2)   Knowledge of construction practices and all state-mandated
licensing is required. The Foreperson reports directly to the Superintendent.
   (D)   Manager of Laboratory Operations.
      (1)   The Operations Manager is responsible for the following:
         (a)   Analysis of all water and wastewater as required by the state or
the Public Works Department;
         (b)   Initiation and maintenance of a laboratory quality assurance and
quality control program;
         (c)   Maintenance of laboratory facilities;
         (d)   Purchase of equipment and supplies for laboratory facilities;
and
         (e)   Maintenance of all logs and required governmental forms for
reporting purposes.
      (2)   (a)   The Operations Manager is required to have a degree in either
microbiology, chemistry, environmental science, or a related field. Experience
in laboratory operations (five-year minimum) may be substituted for the
educational requirements. All applicable licensing as required by the state for
treatment operations shall be required.
         (b)   The Operations Manager reports directly to the Public Works
Director.
   (E)   Utility operators. Utility operators are responsible for the
individual operations and maintenance of the water and wastewater utilities.
Meter reading functions shall be handled by all classes of operators. All
operators shall report directly to the Foreperson. The following categories of
operators are established:
      (1)   Operator-in-Training. Lowest level; no licensing; required to
perform all utility maintenance and operations under direct supervision;
      (2)   Operator Level 1. Requires at least one year of experience as an
Operator-in-Training, and must be able to pass an operations and maintenance
examination as administered by the Public Works Department. No licensing
required, but must work toward the achievement of the next level through on-
the-job or classroom training, with progress being reviewed by the Public Works
Director;
      (3)   Operator Level 2. Requires at least two years of experience at
Operator Level 1, and must have passed either the state-mandated wastewater
treatment examinations or the water treatment examinations. Minimal supervision
required; and
      (4)   Operator Level 3. Requires at least one year of experience at
Operator Level 2, and must have passed all state-mandated examinations for both
water and wastewater treatment. No direct supervision required.
   (F)   Public Works Laborer.
      (1)   The Public Works Laborer is responsible for the maintenance of town
streets, parks, storm sewers, and related areas.
      (2)   All work will be assigned by work order, and employees will be
directly responsible to the Foreperson for scheduling.
   (G)   Clerical positions. Two clerical positions are utilized by the Public
Works Department:
      (1)   Departmental Secretary. Responsible for all clerical and reception
duties as assigned by the Public Works Director. Work order assignments,
typing, filing, and internal accounting are examples of required duties.
Additional duties may be assigned. Typing or keyboard skills, a general
knowledge of bookkeeping, and a familiarity with computers and applications are
required; and
      (2)   Utility Billing Clerk. Responsible for all customer billing
functions as related to the water and sewer utilities (i.e., data input and
extraction, customer relations and inquiries, and receipt of monies). The
Billing Clerk must have a working knowledge of computers and computer billing
systems.
(Prior Code, § 2-86)
§ 50.21 TECHNICAL AND PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   The Public Works Department shall provide technical and professional
assistance upon request to the following:
      (1)   The Council;
      (2)   Plan Commission;
      (3)   Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (4)   Stormwater Management Board;
      (5)   Park Board;
      (6)   Building Department; and
      (7)   Utility Regulatory Commission.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall also serve as a member of the
Technical Advisory Committee (TAC).
(Prior Code, § 2-87)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.35 REMEDIES.
   The town or Public Works Director shall have the legal authority to issue a
notice of violation (NOVs), cease-and-desist orders, and/or establish time
schedules (compliance schedules).
   (A)   Informal notice of violation.
      (1)   When the Public Works Director finds that a user has violated or
continues to violate any provision of this public works title, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Public Works Director may serve upon that user an informal
notice of violation via email, phone call, or another method.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of
the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention
thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user
to the Public Works Director. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the
user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the
notice of violation.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Public
Works Director to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   Written notice of violation.
      (1)   When the Public Works Director finds that a user has violated or
continues to violate any provision of this public works title, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Public Works Director may serve upon that user a written
notice of violation.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of
the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention
thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user
to the Public Works Director.
      (3)   Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability
for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation
      (4)    Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Public
Works Director to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (C)   Consent orders. The Public Works Director may enter into consent
orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such
documents will include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the
noncompliance within a period specified by the document.
   (D)   Show-cause hearing.
      (1)   The Public Works Director may order a user which has violated or
continues to violate any provision of this public works title, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, to appear before the Public Works Director and show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
      (2)   Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place
for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action,
and a request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action
should not be taken.
      (3)   The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least 21 days before
the hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the
user. A show-cause hearing shall not be a bar against or prerequisite for
taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Compliance orders.
      (1)   When the town finds that any violation of this section has
occurred, the town may require the user to submit for approval a detailed
schedule of specific actions, acceptable to the Board, which the users shall
take to prevent or correct a violation of requirements.
      (2)   When the Public Works Director finds that a user has violated or
continues to violate any provision of this public works title, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Public Works Director may issue an order to the user
responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance
within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the
time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutant discharged to the sewer.
      (3)   A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance
established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance
order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against or a
prerequisite for taking any other action against the user.
   (F)   Issuance of cease-and-desist orders. When the town finds that a
discharge of wastewater has been taking place or is likely to take place in
violation of this public works title, or reasonably appears to the town to
present an imminent endangerment to the health and welfare of the public, the
environment, and/or which threatens to interfere with the operation of the
POTW, the town or the Public Works Director may issue a cease-and-desist order
to halt or prevent any discharges of pollutants to the POTW. This order may or
may not include timetables or corrective actions.
   (G)   Administrative fines; continuing violations. The commission of any act
prohibited by this section or regulation of the town, or the failure to perform
any lawful order of this section or the town shall be a violation of this
section.
   (H)   Emergency suspension.
      (1)   (a)   The town may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever suspension is necessary to stop an actual
or threatened discharge that reasonably appears to present or cause an imminent
or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons.
         (b)   After notice to the user and their opportunity to respond, the
town may immediately suspend a user’s discharge which threatens to interfere
with the operation of the POTW or presents an endangerment to the environment.
      (2)   (a)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the town
may take any steps necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment to any individuals.
         (b)   The town may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the
user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the town that the period of
endangerment has passed.
   (I)   Termination of discharge.
      (1)   Any user who violates the following conditions is subject to
discharge termination:
         (a)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
         (b)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
         (c)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater volume, constituents, and characteristics before discharge;
         (d)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for
inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
         (e)   Violation of the pretreatment standards.
      (2)   Such users will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under division (D) above
why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the
Public Works Director shall not be a bar to or a prerequisite for taking any
other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 2-176) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   (A)   Any user affected by any decision, action, or determination including
cease-and-desist orders, the actions of the town, interpreting or implementing
the provisions of this public works title, any permit issued herein, or any
action, decision, or regulation of the town adopted pursuant hereto, may file
with the town a written request for review and reconsideration within ten days
of such a decision, action, or determination, setting forth in detail the facts
supporting the user’s request for reconsideration.
   (B)   The appeal shall be heard by the town at the next regularly scheduled
meeting that occurs no sooner than 30 days after receipt of the written request
for review and reconsideration. The town’s decision, action, or determination
shall remain in effect during such period of reconsideration.
(Prior Code, § 2-177) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 50.37 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Injunction relief. When the town finds that a discharge of wastewater
is in violation of any part of this division, or otherwise causes or threatens
to cause a condition of pollution or nuisance, the town may petition a court
for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent injunction or both in
restraining the continuance of such a discharge.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   A user who has violated or continues to violate any provision of
this public works title, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the town for a maximum civil fine per violation, per day under I.C. 36-1-6-4 or
as may be recodified. In the case of a monthly or other long-term average
discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the
violation.
      (2)   The town may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the town.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall
consider all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent
of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation,
any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective actions by
the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice
requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil fines shall not be a bar against or a
prerequisite for taking any other action against a user.
   (C)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   A user who willfully or recklessly violates any provision of this
public works title, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or
any other pretreatment standard or requirement may be punished by a fine and/or
criminal prosecution as applicable.
      (2)   A user who willfully or recklessly introduces any substance into
the sewage works which causes personal injury or property damage may be
punished by a fine and/or criminal prosecution as applicable.
      (3)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations,
or certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other
documentation filed, or required to be maintained, under this public works
title, wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this public works title may be punished by a fine and/or
criminal prosecution as applicable.
   (D)   Remedies nonexclusive.
      (1)   The remedies provided for in this public works title are not
exclusive. The town may take any, all, or any combination of these actions
against a noncompliant user.
      (2)   The town is empowered to take more than one enforcement action
against any noncompliant user.
(Prior Code, § 2-178) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this public works title for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If not already specifically established, the rate or charge for
violation shall be a fine of no more than $2,500 per first-time offense or
violation, and no more than $7,500 for any subsequent offense or violation. In
the case of discharges into the sewage works in violation of
Chapter 52, any valid order, or regulation of the town; each day of violation
constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-176)
   (C)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any other provision not
specifically referenced in §§
50.35 through
50.37 shall be served by the town with written notice, stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction of the violation. The offender shall, within the period stated in
the notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who continues any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (C)(1) above may be fined in an amount of at least
$1,000, but not exceeding $2,500 per day, per violation, for a first violation;
nor more than $7,500 per day, per violation, for subsequent violations.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this public works
title becomes liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned
the town because of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 2-179)
(Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Water Treatment and Distribution
   
51.01   Contract
   
51.02   Water Clerk
   
51.03   Meters
   
51.04   Cross-connections; backflow prevention
   
51.05   Water taps; service connections
   
51.06   Interference; damage
   
51.07   Rates and charges
   
51.08   Discontinuance; security deposit
Conservation and Rationing
   
51.20   Water conservation emergency
   
51.21   Public notices
   
51.22   Voluntary conservation
   
51.23   Mandatory conservation
   
51.24   Rationing
   
51.25   Exceptions
   
51.99   Penalty
WATER TREATMENT AND DISTRIBUTION
§ 51.01 CONTRACT.
   (A)   This subdivision and all the provisions, rules, and regulations
contained herein shall be construed as a contract between the town and any and
all persons, firms, companies, or corporations using water from the Division of
Water Treatment and Distribution (Water Department); and the use of said water
shall be construed as consent to be bound thereby; and any violation of the
provisions contained herein shall constitute a breach of said contract,
whereupon the service to the violator shall be terminated from the building or
premises where such violation occurs.
   (B)   In the event of such termination of service, the service shall be
restored only upon the payment of all charges and expenses of the termination,
in addition to any penalties imposed hereunder, and upon the order of the
Utility Regulatory Commission or its designee.
(Prior Code, § 2-111)
§ 51.02 WATER CLERK.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   At its first regular meeting each year, the town’s Utility
Regulatory Commission shall appoint a Water Clerk of the Division of Water
Treatment and Distribution, which appointment shall be for a period of one
year, subject to the will of said Utility Regulatory Commission; provided,
however, that the Utility Regulatory Commission, in its discretion, may
designate the Clerk-Treasurer as the Water Clerk.
      (2)   The salary of said Water Clerk shall be fixed by the Council.
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of said Water Clerk to make the
duplicates of the water rents, receive said rentals, and keep all accounts,
books, records, and all other necessary clerical duties pertaining to the
division, under such system of accounting and such regulation as shall be
prescribed by the Utility Regulatory Commission, including:
      (1)   Preparing consumer statements;
      (2)   Providing a list of delinquent customers to the Public Works
Director;
      (3)   Remitting monies collected to the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (4)   Preparing and submitting such reports as the Utility Regulatory
Commission may direct.
(Prior Code, § 2-112)
§ 51.03 METERS.
   (A)   (1)   All consumers of water shall be and are hereby required to use a
meter, which shall be furnished and connected at the cost of the consumer, and
shall be of such make and kind as shall be designated by the Utility Regulatory
Commission. Such meters shall be maintained by the Division of Water Treatment
and Distribution, except any damage occasioned thereto by the negligence of the
consumer or agent thereof.
      (2)   All meters shall be so placed as to be easily accessible to the
Water Department for the purpose of examining and reading such meter; and if
such meter cannot be placed inside of a building or house, then the consumer
shall furnish and keep in repair a meter box at such location on the premises
satisfactory to the Water Department. Meters shall be placed where secure from
frost, and connecting pipes shall be joined at each side of the meter by means
of a square-faced union. All repairs due to freezing or other negligence of the
user shall be made and charged to the user.
   (B)   All meters shall be read monthly, and such reading turned over to the
Water Clerk for the purpose of preparing billing statements.
   (C)   If a meter at any time fails to register the quantity of water, the
quantity shall be determined and the charge made based upon the average
quantity registered during such preceding period as the Utility Regulatory
Commission may direct.
(Prior Code, § 2-113)
§ 51.04 CROSS-CONNECTIONS; BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   (A)   A CROSS-CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connecting or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town’s water system, and the other water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
   (B)   (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or maintain or
permit to be established or maintained any cross-connection.
      (2)   No interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from
a private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the public water
supply of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Water Department and by the Environmental Management Board.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the duty of Water Department to cause inspections to
be made of all properties served by the public water system where cross-
connection with the public water system is deemed possible.
      (2)   The frequency of inspections and re-inspections based on potential
health hazards involved shall be as established by the Water Department.
   (D)   (1)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the
Water Department shall have the right to request entry to and at any reasonable
time examine any property served by a connection to the public water system of
the town for cross-connections.
      (2)   On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property furnish
to the inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system
or systems on such property. The refusal of access or refusal of requested
pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-
connections.
   (E)   (1)   The Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
      (2)   Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is
served on the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a
violation is found or suspected to exist. Water services to such property shall
not be restored until the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance
with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   (1)   If it is deemed by the Water Department that a cross-connection
or an emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires
immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be immediately
discontinued.
      (2)   The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten days
of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   (1)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced pressure principle backflow preventer in
the main water line serving each building on the premises.
      (2)   The backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible
location not subject to flooding or freezing.
   (H)   (1)   Backflow preventers will be installed in all new service
connections and when meters are replaced or retired. The type of backflow
preventer will be specified by the municipal water company in accordance with
set standards and by type of user service.
      (2)   The cost of such a device will be charged to the customer upon
installation.
   (I)   This section does not supersede the State Uniform Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 2-114)
§ 51.05 WATER TAPS; SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No tap or service connection shall be made except upon an
application of the owner of the property to which water is to be introduced.
All applications shall be made in writing upon the printed form furnished by
the Clerk-Treasurer, the blanks to be specifically filled in and signed by the
owner of the premises to be supplied, or by his or her duly authorized agent.
      (2)   Such application shall be accompanied by a remittance covering the
motor charge if a meter is to be furnished by the Water Department, and the
tapping fee as provided for herein. Those provisions having been complied with,
said Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit, which shall be turned over to the
Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   All taps and services to the curb line shall be made by the
Water Department under the supervision of the Superintendent, and the expense
thereof shall be defrayed by the tapping charge herein.
      (2)   Such service, when installed, shall become the property of the
Water Department and shall be repaired and maintained at its expense.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to tap
any main or introduce a supply of water from the water works system into or to
any premises unless authorized to do so by the Water Department or its
Superintendent.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to make any connection with a street service
pipe or other service pipe attached thereto, directly or indirectly, or any
addition or extension thereto unless so authorized.
   (D)   (1)   Each distinct premises to be supplied with water shall be
supplied by a separate tap in the main, and it shall be unlawful to supply more
than one premises from each tap.
      (2)   Provided, however, that in case water is introduced to two or more
adjoining premises at the same time, then the tapping fee as provided for
herein may be reduced at the discretion of the Council according to the amount
of labor and material to be saved thereby.
(Prior Code, § 2-115) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 INTERFERENCE; DAMAGE.
   (A)   Turning on water without permission. It shall be unlawful for any
plumber or other person to turn or cause to be turned on the supply of water to
any building or premises from which the supply has been shut off by the
Superintendent or other authorized person on account of the nonpayment of water
rent or for any other cause, or to turn or cause to be turned on the supply of
water to any building or premises to which a new service has been made, except
for the purpose of testing the plumbing installed therein, without first
obtaining a regular permit for doing so.
   (B)   Obstructing access to stop cock. It shall be unlawful for any person
to, in any manner, obstruct the access of any stop cock connected with any
water pipes within any street, alley, or public place in the town by any
article, thing, or hindrance whatsoever.
   (C)   Using or tampering with fire hydrant.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
damage, tamper with, open, turn on, remove water from, or to allow or cause
water to escape from any fire hydrant located within the town.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to any duly elected or appointed
official of the town, nor to any member of the town’s Volunteer Fire Department
or the town’s Police Department in the execution of their duties.
   (D)   Damage caused by temporary shut-off of water. A permit to use water is
given upon the express condition that if from any cause the supply of water
should temporarily be shut off, no damages shall be claimed by any person,
firm, or corporation using the water on account thereof.
   (E)   Tampering with meter. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to tamper with, adjust, or regulate the water meter installed on
any premises from the purpose of measuring the water used from the Water
Department, or to disconnect such meter and use the water while such meter is
disconnected.
(Prior Code, § 2-116) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 RATES AND CHARGES.
   There shall be, and there are hereby established for the use and the service
rendered by the water works system of the town, the following rates and charges
based on the use of water supplied by the town’s water works system.
   (A)   Consumption per month rate.
 
Consumption per Month (per 1,000 Gallons) Rate per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 gallons per month             $15.08
Next 5,000 gallons per month              $10.70
Next 13,000 gallons per month             $9.58
Next 30,000 gallons per month             $8.92
Next 50,000 gallons per month             $8.21
 
   (B)   Minimum charge per month. Notwithstanding the foregoing metered
consumption rates, each user shall pay a minimum monthly charge of $30.16 for
any quantity of water from zero gallons to 2,000 gallons.
Meter Size Consumption per Month Minimum Charge
Meter Size         Consumption per Month     Minimum Charge
5/8—3/4-inch mete2,000 gallons per month   $30.16
1-inch meter       5,000 gallons per month   $62.26
l-1/4-inch meter   8,000 gallons per month   $93.24
1-1/2-inch meter   10,000 gallons per month  $112.40
2-inch meter       16,000 gallons per month  $169.88
3-inch meter       30,000 gallons per month  $297.40
4-inch meter       50,000 gallons per month  $475.80
6-inch meter       100,000 gallons per month $886.30
 
   (C)   Sprinkler connection charge.
 
Connection Size Charges per Annum
2-inch meter    $119.73
3-inch meter    $270.52
4-inch meter    $481.17
6-inch meter    $1,082.12
8-inch meter    $1,929.16
 
   (D)   Connection for filling fire trucks.
 
Connection Size Charges per Annum
2-inch meter    $119.73
 
   (E)   Surcharge for special district. Each user in the SPECIAL DISTRICT,
which is herein defined as the homes located in the residential subdivisions
known as Park Ridge and Windy Hill, shall pay the town a surcharge of $7 per
month.
(Prior Code, § 2-117) (Ord. 1995-0418, passed 4-18-1995; Ord. 1996-0820, passed
8-20-1996; Ord. 2001-03-20, passed 4-11-2001; Ord. 2002-8-20A, passed 8-20-
2002; Ord. 2008-7-15A, passed 7-15-2008; Ord. 2009-2-17, passed 2-7-2009; Ord.
2009-8-18B, passed 8-18-2009; Ord. 2010-03-16, passed 3-16- 2010; Ord. 2021-12-
20, passed 12-20-2021; Ord. 2023-1-21, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 51.08 DISCONTINUANCE; SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to discontinue the use of water shall so notify
the Water Clerk, and unless such notice is given, the rates and charges as
fixed herein shall be in full force and effect.
   (B)   No new water service or water meter shall be installed or turned on
until such time as the person, firm, or corporation shall have applied for such
new service, and shall have deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer the sum as
established by the Council from time to time, the same to be held by the Clerk-
Treasurer as a security deposit securing the payment of any and all rates and/
or charges for sewer and/or water service incurred by said new service.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (B), the term NEW SERVICE shall be
defined as a service for a person, firm, or corporation who has not during the
two-year period immediately preceding the application for service received a
regular monthly bill from the town, for sewer and/or water service; provided,
however, that all such statements shall have been paid in full when due.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to deposit all
funds received as a result of this subsection in a separate bank account under
the title of “Hebron Water Department Security Deposits.”
         (b)   No funds shall be withdrawn from said account except for
refunding to the customer within 30 days from termination of service; provided,
however, that any unpaid current and/or delinquent rates or charges due and
owing the Water Department, the Public Works Department and/or the town shall
be deducted therefrom prior to reimbursement. Said security deposits shall not
bear interest.
(Prior Code, § 2-118)
CONSERVATION AND RATIONING
§ 51.20 WATER CONSERVATION EMERGENCY.
   Upon making a determination that the town’s public water system is
experiencing, or is in imminent danger of experiencing, a shortage in the
public water supply, the Council shall declare a water conservation emergency
and require the appropriate conservation measures, and the duration thereof.
(Prior Code, § 66-81)
§ 51.21 PUBLIC NOTICES.
   (A)   Voluntary conservation measures. In the event the Council determines
that the water supply emergency may be corrected through voluntary compliance
with water conservation measures as set out in §
51.22, notice of its declaration of water conservation emergency shall be by
publication in a local newspaper of general circulation, or such other means
deemed appropriate and sufficient by the Council. Such notice shall be
effective upon publication.
   (B)   Mandatory conservation measures. In the event the Council determines
that the water supply emergency will likely not be corrected through voluntary
compliance, notice of its declaration of water conservation emergency shall
contain provisions requiring compliance with §§
51.23 or
51.24, and shall be by first class United States mail, or by other direct
notice to each current user, in addition to publication thereof in a local
newspaper of general circulation. Such notice shall be deemed effective at 12:
00 p.m. on the third day following the posting of the direct notice.
(Prior Code, § 66-82)
§ 51.22 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   Users shall be requested to reduce water consumption by practicing voluntary
conservation techniques. The Council or Public Works Department shall suggest
reasonable and effective measures to alleviate existing or potential water
shortages.
(Prior Code, § 66-83)
§ 51.23 MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   Subject to such reasonable terms, times, and conditions as the Council shall
determine in its discretion, users shall be prohibited or restricted from any
or all of the following water uses:
   (A)   Sprinkling, watering, or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, grass, ground
covers, plants, vines, gardens, or vegetation;
   (B)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad cars,
or any other type of mobile equipment;
   (C)   Cleaning or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, paved areas, or other
outdoor surfaces;
   (D)   Washing and cleaning of any business equipment or machinery;
   (E)   Filling of swimming pools, wading pools, spas, or ornamental
fountains; and
   (F)   Knowingly permitting water leakage through defective plumbing.
(Prior Code, § 66-84)
§ 51.24 RATIONING.
   In addition to the mandatory conservation measures identified in §
51.23, users may be required to limit water use pursuant to the following
schedule:
   (A)   Residential use shall be limited to 25 gallons per day; and
   (B)   Business, commercial, and industrial users shall be limited to 30% of
the volume of water used during the corresponding month of the preceding year,
or 30% of the average monthly volume of water used during the number of months
such user has been served by the town public water system, if less than 12
months.
(Prior Code, § 66-85)
§ 51.25 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Council shall have the authority to permit exceptions to the provisions
of this chapter, and establish alternative conservation or rationing
requirements, for the following:
   (A)   Healthcare providers; and
   (B)   Where such exceptions are shown to be necessary to maintain adequate
health and sanitary standards, or necessary to the individual or public health,
safety, and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 66-86)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any user who violates §§
51.23 or
51.24 shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 for each
incident or day of violation. The provisions of §§
51.23 and
51.24 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
      (2)   Alternatively, such violation may be punished upon conviction by a
fine of not more than $2,500 pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-8(10).
      (3)   In addition to or in lieu of any penalties or fines imposed under
§§
51.20 through
51.25, the water service for any user violating §§
51.23 or
51.24 may be terminated.
(Prior Code, § 66-87)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
Wastewater Treatment and Collection
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Legal authority
   
52.03   Administration
   
52.04   Property; damage
   
52.05   Right of entry
   
52.06   Falsifying of information
   
52.07   Town details and specifications
   
52.08   Sewer use rate and fees
   
52.09   Utility debts and unclaimed deposits
Use of Sewer System and Connections
   
52.25   General discharge prohibitions
   
52.26   Cross-connections
   
52.27   Clear water discharges
   
52.28   Required sewage system connection
   
52.29   Private sewage disposal systems
Wastewater Admissibility
   
52.40   Right to reject waste
   
52.41   Prohibitions
   
52.42   Limitations
Fats, Oils, and Grease (FOG) Requirements
   
52.55   Treatments
   
52.56   Facility requirements
   
52.57   Changes in ownership
   
52.58   Enforcement
   
52.99   Penalty
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND COLLECTION
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act (CWA), the primary law in the United States governing water
pollution as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   AMMONIA-NITROGEN. Dissolved ammonia including NH3 (aqueous) and NH4+,
expressed as NH3-N.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The approval authority for the town’s wastewater
treatment and collection is the state’s Department of Environmental Management.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen, expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system that receives the discharge from soil, water, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain that conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain that conveys stormwater or
other clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER (LATERAL). The conduit for transporting waste discharged from
the building to the public sewer commencing three feet outside the building
walls and ending at the wye or tee fitting at the connection to the public
sewer.
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer that conveys sanitary or
industrial waste only.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer that conveys stormwater or
other clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the POTW was designed to treat such pollutants and does remove such
pollutants to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE is not subject
to precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in the order of 80%
or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% or 30% are not
considered substantial. Examples of the additional pollutants which may be
considered COMPATIBLE include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorous compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The chemical, physical, bacteriological,
and radiological properties, including volume, flow rate, and such other
properties which serve to define, classify, or measure the contents, quality,
quantity, and strength of wastewater.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY (CA). The Commissioner of the state’s Department of
Environmental Management.
   COUNCIL. The Council, or any duly authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COST. The average annual principal and interest payments on all
outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   DILUTION. The purposeful act of adding water, other liquids, and/or
substances to the waste stream to dilute the true characteristics of the
wastewater discharge.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   DISSOLVED SOLIDS. The solids in water that are in a solution.
   DOMESTIC DISCHARGER. A user that discharges wastewater to the sewage works
that originates from predominately the human metabolism and household
activities.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for another to use the owner’s
property for a specified purpose.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes, that may be present flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   EFFLUENT LIMITATION OR LIMIT. Any restriction established by the state on
quantities, discharge rates, and concentrations of pollutants that are
discharged or will be discharged from point sources into waters of the state.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA or USEPA. The United States
Environmental Protection Agency.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength more than normal domestic
sewage.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of human and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indication of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   FOG (FATS, OILS, AND GREASE).
      (1)   All fats, oils, and grease, petroleum products, and by-products
include, but are not limited to, any substance such as vegetable or animal
product that is used in, or is a by-product of, the cooking or food preparation
process, and that turns or may turn viscous or solidifies with a change in
temperature or other conditions.
      (2)   Petroleum, oils, and grease as found in auto service facilities
include, but are not limited to, any substance such as petroleum oil, non-
biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil origin that is used in or
is a by-product of an automotive process. These substances are detectable and
measurable using analytical test procedures established in Standard Methods, as
may be amended from time to time.
   FOG FACILITY. Any non-domestic user or combination of users that generate
FOG.
   FOG PRETREATMENT DEVICE or FOG EQUIPMENT. Oil-water separators, grease
traps, and grease interceptors.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of foods, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR. An outdoor, watertight receptacle utilized to intercept,
collect, and restrict the passage of grease and food particles into the POTW to
which the receptacle is directly or indirectly connected, and to separate and
retain grease and food particles from the wastewater discharged by a facility.
   GREASE TRAP. An indoor, watertight receptacle utilized to intercept,
collect, and restrict the passage of grease and food particles into the POTW to
which the receptacle is directly or indirectly connected, and to separate and
retain grease and food particles from the wastewater discharged by a facility.
   HAULED OR TRUCKED POLLUTANTS. Wastes, including holding tank waste, which is
trucked or hauled from any location before discharge to the sewage works or
POTW treatment plant.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGER. A non-domestic discharger introducing pollutants into a
POTW, regardless of whether the discharge is physically within or without the
territory of the town.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). Any user including an indirect discharger and does not
apply to any domestic user.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow into or enter the sewage works or ground from an
industrial, manufacturing, commercial, or business process or the development,
recovery, or processing of any natural resources carried on by any person and
shall further mean any waste from an industrial user, but not including
sanitary sewage or stormwater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT PERMIT (IWP PERMIT). An industrial
wastewater permit as issued by the control authority.
   INFILTRATION. The groundwater or stormwater that enters the sanitary sewer
system through cracks and/or leaks in sanitary pipes.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The stormwater that enters the sanitary sewer system through a
direct connection, including building drains and sewers, from such sources as,
but not limited to roof leaders, cellar, yard, area drains, foundation drains,
unpolluted cooling water discharge, springs and swampy areas, manhole covers,
cross-connections from storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins,
stormwaters, surface run-off, street waters, or drainage. INFLOW does not
include, and it is distinguished from infiltration.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connection to the public sewer system.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the following of a POTW:
      (1)   Treatment processes or operations, sludge processes, or selected
sludge use or disposal methods.
      (2)   The inhibition of disruption under division (1) above must:
         (a)   Cause a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation; or
         (b)   Prevent the use of the POTW’s sewage sludge or its sludge
disposal method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more stringent federal, state, or
local laws, rules, or regulations:
            1.   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345), as it
may be amended;
            2.   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. § 6901), as it
may be amended, including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), as it may be amended; and the rules
contained in any state sludge management plan prepared according to Subtitle D
of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. § 6941), as it may be amended;
            3.   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. § 7401), as it may be amended;
and
            4.   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. § 2601), as it may
be amended.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTION INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average workday;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
STANDARDS ISSUED under § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500; or
      (4)   Has significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of effluent
from that treatment works.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System for discharge
of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the United States according to § 402
of Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlets, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NH3-4. The same as ammonia nitrogen measured as nitrogen; the laboratory
determinations shall be made per procedures outlined in Standard Methods as
defined hereinafter.
   NON-DOMESTIC DISCHARGER. A user that discharges wastewater to the sewage
works that does not originate strictly from the human metabolism and household
activities.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater or sewage having an average daily
concentration as follows:
      (1)   BOD is not more than 210 mg/l;
      (2)   SS is not more than 230 mg/l; or
      (3)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   OIL-WATER SEPARATOR. A device that utilizes the difference in density
between oil, petroleum products, or chemical products, and water for removal.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COST. Includes all cost, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
continually, and produce discharges to receiving water that conforms with all
related federal, state, and local requirements, and shall include replacement
costs.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges, and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge proceeding through a POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, are a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the POTW’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation.
   PERSON. Any persons, natural or artificial, including any individual, firm,
company, municipal or private corporation, association, society, institution,
enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity discharging wastewater to the
wastewater treatment works.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of the hydrogen ions in grams per liter of
solution.
   POLLUTANT. Includes, but is not limited to, dredged spoil, solid waste,
incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, chemical wastes, toxic wastes, hazardous substances, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rocks,
sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged
into water.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of water by waste, contaminants, or
pollutants to a degree that renders such water unfit for beneficial use.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately-owned
industrial sources before introduction into a POTW.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user including applicable local limits.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
      (1)   State pretreatment standards as established in 327 I.A.C. 5-18-8;
      (2)   Pretreatment standards for prohibited discharges, as established in
327 I.A.C. 5-18-2; and
      (3)   National categorical pretreatment standards incorporated by
reference in 327 I.A.C. 5-18-10.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer that is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW).
      (1)   A treatment works owned by the state or a municipality and includes
any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of municipal sewage or compatible industrial wastes. The term also
includes sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to
a POTW.
      (2)   POTW also means the municipality that has jurisdiction over the
indirect discharges to and the discharges from such treatment works.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer that is owned and controlled by the authority,
including any controlled by the public authority, including the following
elements.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A station positioned in the public sewer system to
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewaters from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The waterbody or waterbodies identified by the state’s
Department of Environmental Management as the receptor for a wastewater
discharge.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the sewage works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SANITARY SEWER DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS. The document titled
Sanitary Sewer Design and Construction Standards as approved by the town in its
most recent form.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions
(including polluted cooling water). The three most common types of SEWAGE are
as follows.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any trade or
process carried on in that establishment, including the wastes from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilets and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structure, equipment, and processing to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and treatment facilities provided.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU.
      (1)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 327 I.A.C. 5-18-10.
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler blowdown
wastewater) to the POTW;
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER by the control
authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to:
            1.   Adversely affect the POTW’s operation;
            2.   Violate a pretreatment standard; or
            3.   Violate a requirement of 327 I.A.C. 5-19-3.
      (3)   The control authority may, on its initiative or in response to a
petition received from an industrial user or a POTW and per 327 I.A.C. 5-19-3
(6), determine that an industrial user is not a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER if
it does not meet division (2)(c) above of this definition.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater at a flow rate or concentration
that could cause a violation of this chapter or in any other way violate the
POTW’s regulations, local limits, or permit conditions.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures outlined in the
latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water
Works Association, and the Water Environment Federation and as outlined in 40
C.F.R. part 136.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   STORMWATER. The water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). The solids which either float on the surface or are
in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determinations shall be made under the procedures outlined
in Standard Methods.
   TOWN. The Town of Hebron, Indiana.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the
reasonable control of the industrial user. An UPSET does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
pretreatment facilities, inadequate pretreatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   USER. A person, including both the owner and occupant of real estate, who
introduces into or discharges into the sewage works any substance whatsoever.
   USER CHARGE. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
user charge system, and as industrial and nonindustrial in the industrial cost
recovery system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment listed on the office of
management and budget’s Standard Industrial Classification Manual (1972
edition) involved in a commercial enterprise, business, or service which, based
on a determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes
or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to POTW. Industrial users shall be identified on
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual under Division A, B, D, E, or I.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, and the like.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. Material in the sewage solids is transformed to
gases or vapors when heated to 350°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT (WWTP). Any arrangement of devices and structures
used by the town for treatment and disposing of sewage, sludge, and other
sewage constituents and products. Also called a PUBLICLY OPERATED TREATMENT
WORKS (POTW).
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 2-142) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 52.02 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   The town and the Public Works Department have the legal authority to:
   (A)   Develop and enforce specific limits on prohibited substances;
   (B)   Enter the premises of any user to conduct inspections, surveillance,
record, review, and/or monitor as necessary to determine compliance with this
division and, if applicable, any effective IWP permit;
   (C)   Accept or deny any new or increase discharges from any indirect
discharger;
   (D)   Immediately halt or prevent any discharge of pollutants to the sewage
works which reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to the
health or welfare of the public, the environment, and/or which threatens to
interfere with the operation of the POTW;
   (E)   Require compliance with all applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements by indirect discharges;
   (F)   Impose fees, if necessary, to offset the cost incurred by the
permittee for administering the pretreatment program requirements established
in this chapter; and
   (G)   Impose fines per §
50.99.
(Prior Code, § 2-143) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 52.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Public Works Director shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Public
Works Director may delegate any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the
Public Works Department or town personnel.
(Prior Code, § 2-144) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 52.04 PROPERTY; DAMAGE.
   A person shall not maliciously, willfully, or recklessly break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, vandalize, or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance, or equipment that is a part of the town sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 2-145) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Public Works Director or other duly authorized representatives of the
town, upon reasonable notice to any user (or property owner) who is owner,
tenant, or occupant of any real estate, is empowered to enter the premises upon
presentation of proper credentials to inspect, observe, measure, sample, and
test water, sewage, and industrial waste and to ensure compliance with this
section.
(Prior Code, § 2-146) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 52.06 FALSIFYING OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   A person shall not knowingly make or submit to the town a false
statement, representation, record, report, plan, or other document required to
be filed hereunder or under a duly adopted regulation of the town, or
voluntarily filed with the intent that the town rely thereon upon, or falsify,
tamper with, or knowingly render inaccurate any monitoring, testing, measuring,
or timing device required or installed under these regulations.
   (B)   A person shall not, during any monitoring or surveillance period,
alter industrial processes or other activities that render samples drawn or
measurements taken during said monitoring or surveillance unrepresentative or
uncharacteristic of normal operations, flows, or concentrations of pollutants.
(Prior Code, § 2-147) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 TOWN DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All plans and construction shall be compliant with the town’s Sanitary Sewer
Design and Construction Standards.
(Prior Code, § 2-150) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 52.08 SEWER USE RATE AND FEES.
   (A)   Rates and charges. Every person, except for the town governmental
units whose premises are served by said sewage works, shall be charged for the
services provided. These charges are established for each user class, as
defined, so that the sewage works shall recover from each user and user class
revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works in terms of
volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and
maintenance, including replacement, of the treatment works.
   (B)   User classes. User charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user
class.
      (1)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
the United States Environmental Protection Agency, published by the Federal
Register, August 21, 1973 (38 DVR 22523) and on February 11, 1974 (40 C.F.R
part 52). Replacement costs, which are recovered through the system of the user
charges, shall be based upon the expected service life of the sewage works
plant and equipment.
      (2)   The various classes of users of the POTW for this section shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Class I - Residential, single-family only;
         (b)   Class II - All other, which includes:
            1.   Multiple-family dwellings on a single meter;
            2.   Commercial;
            3.   Governmental;
            4.   Institutional; and
            5.   Wholesale residential.
         (c)   Class III - Industrial.
   (C)   Rate schedule.
      (1)   For the use of and the service rendered by said sewage works, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of every lot (except for the
town governmental units), parcel of real estate, or building that is connected
to the town’s sanitary system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, water, or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into
the sanitary sewage system of the town.
      (2)   Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service cost,
excessive strength surcharges, and other service charges which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided, and shall be in amount
determinable as follows.
         (a)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property of premises subject to such rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water meter therein used, except as herein
otherwise provided. Water meters will be read once each month, and sewage
service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period equaling a month).
The amount of such rate and charge shall be as established by the Council from
time to time.
         (b)   The minimum charge for any service where the user is a metered
consumer shall be based on the size of a water meter. The amount of such
minimum charge shall be as established by the Council from time to time.
Provided, however, that the minimum charge shall be based on a water meter size
of not more than one size smaller than the service line in which the meter is
installed.
         (c)   The bill for all monthly utility services for rental properties
within the town shall be in the name of the landowner, property manager, or
tenant, at the landowner’s option. New service shall not be permitted at a
rental location until all previous charges for that location are satisfied with
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. Once the landowner or property manager has been
notified of a delinquent final bill, then the landowner or property manager has
15 days to pay the full amount to the Water Department or an additional $50
delinquent fee will occur and a lien will be placed on the property.
   (D)   Tapping fee. A fee as established by the Council from time to time
shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town before the tapping into the
said sanitary sewer system of the town.
   (E)   Determination of the quantity of water discharged to the sewer system.
The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and obtained
from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be determined by
the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and the sewage
service shall be billed to the above appropriate rates. Further, as is
hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities that do not enter the sanitary
sewage system.
      (1)   (a)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the
town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of
water supplied by the water utility serving the town and the water used thereon
is not measured by a water meter or is measured by a water meter not acceptable
to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or
determined by the town.
         (b)   To ascertain the rate or charge provided in this section, the
owner or other interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and
maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of
sewage discharge.
         (c)   If there is no meter or any adequate and approved method of
measurement for residential lots or residential parcels of real estate, then
there shall be a service charge for such sewage service in the amount
established by the Council from time to time.
      (2)   (a)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into
the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of
water supplied by the water utility serving the town and, in addition, is a
user of water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is
measured by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used
shall be otherwise measured and determined by the town.
         (b)   To ascertain the rates or charges, the owner or other interested
party, shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
      (3)   (a)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real
estate, buildings, or dwelling units discharging sanitary sewage, water, or
other liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or
indirectly, are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a
single water meter, then, in such case for billing purposes, the sewage rates
and the charges shall be based either on the quantity of water used on the
property of premises subject to such rates and charges as the same is measured
by said single water meter there in use shown by consumption records of the
said water utility, or on the number of residential lots, parcels of real
estate, buildings, or dwelling units served through the single water meter
times the applicable rate, whichever is greater.
         (b)   In the case of trailer parks, the number of dwelling units shall
be computed and interpreted as the total number of trailers located and
installed in the said park plus any other dwelling units served through the
meter.
      (4)   In the event, a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharge
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water over
2,500 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the town
that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not and
cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or
any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (F)   Adjustment for the strength of waste.
      (1)   So that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably adjusted
to the service rendered to industrial users, the town shall base its charge not
only on the volume but also on strength and character of the stronger than
normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
      (2)   The town shall require the industrial user to determine the
strength and content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or
indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system, in such manner and by such method
as the town may deem practicable in the light of the conditions and attending
circumstances of the case, to determine the proper charge. The industrial user
shall furnish a central sampling point available to the town at all times.
      (3)   Normal sewage, domestic waste strength, should not exceed a BOD of
210 milligrams per liter of fluid and suspended solids over 230 milligrams per
liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating stronger than normal domestic
waste shall be made on the following bases.
         (a)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge as established by the Council, and updated from time to time,
for suspended solids received over 230 milligrams per liter of fluid.
         (b)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional
charge as established by the Council from time to time for BOD received over
210 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (4)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical
oxygen demand contained in the waste shall be per the latest copy of the
Standard Methods.
   (G)   Billing; delinquency. Such rates and charges shall be prepared,
billed, and collected by the town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
      (1)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
      (2)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability if
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection
records of the town to determine whether bills have been paid by such tenant or
tenants, provided that such examination shall be made at the office at which
said records are kept, and during the hours that such office is open for
business.
      (3)   (a)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid
when are hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of rates or
charge shall thereupon attach thereto.
         (b)   The time at which such rates or charges shall be paid is fixed
at 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
   (H)   Rate studies.
      (1)   So that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain fair
and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to the
various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made within a
reasonable period following the first 12 months of operation following the date
on which Ordinance 1981-5 goes into effect.
      (2)   Such study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the
costs associated with the treatment of excess strength effluents from
industrial users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works,
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for operation and
maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements, and capital improvements
to the waste treatment system.
      (3)   (a)   Thereafter, on an annual basis, within a reasonable period
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made to review the fairness and equity of the rates and charges for sewage
service continually.
         (b)   Such studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the
town, or by a firm of certified public accountants or engineers as the town
shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
   (I)   Service regulations.
      (1)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may
be deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
town’s sewage system, pumping stations, and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage system, and
the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of such rates and charges.
      (2)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into
the town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of sewage treatment works of said town; or to require methods
affecting pretreatment standards included in the National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to the sewage works.
   (J)   Effective date. The rates and charges as herein set forth shall become
effective on the first full billing period occurring after the adoption of
Ordinance 1981-7.
   (K)   Special rate contracts. The Council is further authorized to enter
into special rate contracts with customers of the sewage works where definable
reductions in cost to the sewage works can be determined, and such reduction
shall be limited to such reduced costs. Such proposed contracts shall be
subject to the approval of the Council.
   (L)   Rates and charges.
      (1)   Consumption per month rate.
 
Consumption per Month          Rate per 1,000 Gallons
First 15,000 gallons per month $18.51
Over 15,000 gallons per month  $11.61
 
      (2)   Minimum charge per month. Notwithstanding the foregoing metered
consumption rates, each user shall pay a minimum monthly charge based upon the
following schedule.
 
Meter Size                     Gallons Allowed Minimum Charge
5/8—3/4-inch                 2,000           $37.02
1-inch, 1 1/4-inch, 1 1/2-inch 5,375           $99.49
2-inch                         8,060           $149.19
3-inch                         10,750          $198.98
4-inch                         13,440          $248.77
 
      (3)   Other charges.
 
Tap Charge
5/8—3/4-inch and 1-inch mete$275
System Development Charge
Per equivalent dwelling unit  $2,170
 
      (4)   Surcharge for special district. Each user in the special district,
which is herein defined as the homes located in the residential subdivisions
known as Park Ridge and Windy Hill, shall pay the town a surcharge of $18 per
month.
(Prior Code, § 2-174) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021; Ord. 2023-11-21-1,
passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.09 UTILITY DEBTS AND UNCLAIMED DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Water, garbage, and drainage.
      (1)   Utilities will write off bad debts every two years.
      (2)   Accounts that remain unpaid for more than 180 days after the date
of a delinquent notice can be written off.
      (3)   Reasonable efforts must be used to collect delinquent charges on
bad debt accounts.
      (4)   No future service will be provided to customers with bad debt
accounts until said written-off accounts are paid in full.
   (B)   Wastewater (sewer).
      (1)   All collections of delinquent sewer charges must comply with I.C.
36-9-23-32(b) and 36-9-23-33(c)(1).
      (2)   The town will file a lien upon the real estate for delinquent sewer
charges in appropriate circumstances.
      (3)   Utilities will write off bad debts every two years.
      (4)   Under state law, sewer fees and penalties totaling less than $40
can be written off at any time.
      (5)   Accounts that remain unpaid for more than 180 days after the date
of a delinquent notice and do not have a lien filed can be written off.
      (6)   Reasonable efforts must be used to collect delinquent charges on
bad debt accounts.
      (7)   No future service will be provided to customers with bad debt
accounts until said written-off accounts are paid in full.
   (C)   Unclaimed water deposits. All water deposits or overpayments refunded
by check to a customer shall be considered unclaimed if the check is
outstanding for two or more years as of the preceding December 31. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall enter the amount unclaimed according to division (C)(1) above
as a receipt to the Town Water Operating Fund and remove the check from the
list of outstanding checks.
(Prior Code, § 2-175) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
USE OF SEWER SYSTEM AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.25 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or to other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers that have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use each sewer, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new construction shall be made unless there is
capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and
the POTW, including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (C)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided per provisions of this section and the NPDES permit.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided per provisions of this section and the NPDES permit.
   (E)    Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (F)    The owners of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way, in which there is now
located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at
their expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer per the provisions of
this section within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so;
provided that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 2-152) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.26 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains effluent from the town’s
sanitary sewer system, and the other, stormwater, basement floor drain water,
sump discharge, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or
chemicals whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the
direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the two
systems.
   (B)   Prohibition of cross-connections.
      (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection.
      (2)   No interconnection shall be established whereby any stormwater,
basement floor drain water, or sump discharge may enter the sanitary sewer
system of said municipality unless such connection and the method of connection
shall have been approved by the Public Works Department and by the Board.
   (C)   Inspections. It shall be the duty of the Public Works Department to
cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the sanitary sewer
system where cross-connection with the sanitary sewer system is deemed
possible. The frequency of inspections and re-inspections based on potential
health hazards involved shall be as established by the Public Works Department.
   (D)   Rights of inspectors.
      (1)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the Public
Works Department shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time
to examine any property served by a connection to the sanitary sewer system of
the town for cross-connections.
      (2)   On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of access
or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross-connections.
   (E)   Discontinuance of water service.
      (1)   The Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the stormwater system.
      (2)   Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is
served on the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a
violation is found or suspected to exist. Water services to such property shall
not be restored until the cross-connection(s) have been eliminated in
compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   Emergency action. If it is deemed by the Public Works Director or
representative that a cross-connection or an emergency endangers public health,
safety, or welfare and requires immediate action, and a written finding to that
effect is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and delivered to the consumer’s
premises, service may be immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an
opportunity for hearing within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   Applicability of State Plumbing Code. This section does not supersede
the State Uniform Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 2-153) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27 CLEAR WATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall connect a source of surface water and/or groundwater,
including, but not limited to roof downspouts, footing drains, foundation
drains, areaway drains, driveways, sump pumps, heat pump discharge, cooling
water, and/or parking lots, to a building sewer lateral or building drain which
is in turn connected, directly or indirectly, to the town’s sewage works. The
town may make exceptions per this division, but only if such exceptions are in
a writing approved by the town.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwater, surface water, groundwater,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or
unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility as such
removal is cost-effective and is in the best interest of all users of those
facilities.
   (C)   Swimming pool water, cooling water, boiler blowdown, or other clear
waters which may contain chemicals or pollutants which cannot be discharged to
a natural outlet shall not be discharged to the sanitary sewers without
specific prior written approval by the town.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever a property owner has plumbing facilities in his, her,
or their basement serving showers, toilets, washing machines, and the like,
there shall not be any floor drains or footing drains connected to said
plumbing that may convey groundwater seepage into the sewage works.
      (2)   The property owner shall provide dedicated plumbing and pumping
systems for sewage. The property owner shall bear the cost of disconnecting
non-sanitary connections. The plumbing shall not be interconnected with sump
pumps, footing drains, and floor drains.
   (E)   Additional requirements are provided in the town’s Sanitary Sewer
Design and Construction Standards.
(Prior Code, § 2-154) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 REQUIRED SEWAGE SYSTEM CONNECTION.
   The town may, consistent with state law, require the owner of a property to
connect to the town’s sewage works.
   (A)   Payment of costs of installation of building sewer. All costs and
expenses incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss
or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of
the building sewer.
   (B)   Separate building sewer required for each building; exception. A
separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building;
except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and
no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the building sewer from the
front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as
one building sewer.
   (C)   Use of old building sewers. Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the Building Inspector, to meet all the requirements of this section.
   (D)   Specifications for building sewer. The size, slope, alignment,
materials of construction of a building sewer, excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code and the town’s Sanitary Sewer
Design and Construction Standards.
   (E)   Elevation of building sewer. Whenever possible, the building sewer
shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In
all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to
the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be
lifted by an approved means and discharged to the public sewer.
   (F)   Specifications for connection. The connection of the building sewer
into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the Building and
Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the
procedures outlined in the appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF
Manual of Practice No. 9 and the town’s Sanitary Sewer Design and Construction
Standards. All deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Public Works Director before installation.
   (G)   Supervision of connection.
      (1)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the said
Building Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection in
connection to the public sewer.
      (2)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the said
Building Inspector or his or her representative.
   (H)   Excavations. All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the said
town.
   (I)   Ownership of building sewer lateral. The property owner is responsible
for the maintenance and proper operation of the building sewer lateral from the
sewer main to the point of use. Any blockages or tree root intrusions are the
responsibility of the property owner to repair. All other issues with building
sewer laterals will be reviewed by the town on a case-by-case basis.
(Prior Code, § 2-155) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 52.29 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.28, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Approval required. Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain approval from the Public
Works Director. The applicant shall provide any plans, specifications, and
other information as deemed necessary by the Public Works Director. A permit
and inspection fee may be established by the Council and shall be paid to the
town at the time the information is submitted.
   (B)   Inspection. The approval of a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Public Works Director. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of the construction; and, in any event, the applicant shall notify the
Public Works Director when the work is ready for final inspection and before
any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24
hours of the receipt of notice by the Public Works Director.
   (C)   Specifications. The type, capacities, location, and layout of a
private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the
State Board of Health. No approval shall be issued for any private sewage
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the lot
is less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted
to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (D)   Connection to public sewer. When a public sewer becomes available to a
property served by a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
52.25(F), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subdivision; and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   (E)   Operation and maintenance. The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no
expense to the town.
   (F)   Discontinuance of use. When a public sewer becomes available, the
building sewer shall be connected to said sewer within 60 days, and the private
sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-
run gravel or sand.
   (G)   Additional requirements. No statement contained in this section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the Health Officer.
   (H)   Connection permits.
      (1)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer. There shall
be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall apply on a
special form furnished by the said town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Building Inspector.
      (3)   A permit and inspection fee may be established by the Council and
shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 2-156) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
WASTEWATER ADMISSIBILITY
§ 52.40 RIGHT TO REJECT WASTE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to reject waste and prohibit the
introduction of rejected waste into the town’s sewage works.
   (B)   The town shall also have the right to require pretreatment of any
waste, when the strength or characteristics of the waste, in the sole
discretion of the town, is such that the town believes it could cause damage to
or interfere with the operation of the town’s sewage works.
   (C)   When the town requires pretreatment, the pretreated wastes must meet
the town’s discharge prohibitions and other pretreatment standards and
pretreatment requirements.
(Prior Code, § 2-159) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 52.41 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of dilution. No user shall ever increase the use of
process water or, in any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or
complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with any
required pretreatment standard of the town or under any law.
(Prior Code, § 2-158)
   (B)   General prohibitions.
      (1)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW any
pollutant or wastewater which causes, or could potentially cause, interference
with the operation or performance of the POTW.
      (2)   These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether
they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other national,
state, or local pretreatment standards or pretreatment requirements.
(Prior Code, § 2-160)
   (C)   Specific prohibitions. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      (1)   A pollutant from any source of nondomestic wastewaters that could
pass-through or cause interference with the operation or performance of the
sewage works;
      (2)   (a)   Any pollutants that could create a fire or explosive hazard
in the sewage works or POTW, including waste streams with a closed cup
flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C), using the test methods specified in the
Standard Methods.
         (b)   Examples of these pollutants include, but are not limited to,
gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, kerosene, toluene, xylene, ethers,
alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates,
carbides, hydrides, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas which
the town or the control authority has notified the user is a fire or explosion
hazard to the POTW;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantities, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, or constitute
a hazard to humans or animals, or create a public nuisance, or create any
hazard in the receiving waters;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 and higher than 9.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (5)   Solid or viscous substances in an amount which could obstruct the
flow in the sewage works or POTW resulting in interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, FOG, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, ungrounded garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair,
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers, glass, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (6)   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which either singly or by interaction with other pollutants will cause
interference in the POTW;
      (7)   Heat in wastewater that could inhibit biological activity in the
POTW resulting in interference or damage, or wastewater which causes the
temperature at the introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F
(40°C);
      (8)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, petroleum, oil,
non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil origin, whether
emulsified or not, over 100 mg/l or containing substances that may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures between 32°F or between 0°C and 65°C;
      (9)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Public Works Director;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the POTW exceeds the limits established by the Public Works
Director for such materials;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Public Works Director as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, or meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies or jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (13)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration that may exceed limits established by the Public Works Director
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (14)   Any substance or activity that poses any risk of danger to the
life or safety of personnel;
      (15)   A nuisance or hindrance of the effective maintenance or operation
of the sewer system, such as unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids
such as, but not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues;
or if dissolved solids such as, but not limited, to sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate;
      (16)   Excessive discoloration such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions;
      (17)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
SLUGS as defined herein;
      (18)   Waters or wastes containing substances that are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment or reduction by the sewage
treatment processes employed or are unable for treatment to such degree that
the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other
agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (19)   Hauled or trucked wastewater or holding tank waste shall not be
discharged from any location into the sewage works or POTW.
(Prior Code, § 2-161)
(Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.42 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Limitations on point of discharge. No person shall discharge any
substance directly into a manhole or other opening in the sewage works other
than through the approved building sewer lateral, except per the terms of this
chapter or by express permission of the town or authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 2-157)
   (B)   Authority to determine appropriate user limits. The town, and/or its
designee shall have the legal authority to establish and enforce specific
limits on substances; compatible, prohibited, or otherwise. Prohibited and/or
limited substances have constituents and characteristics which singly or in
combination may damage structures, impair the operation of the POTW that serves
the town, interfere with, or may overload treatment processes, or impair the
quality of the receiving stream(s) or its tributaries.
(Prior Code, § 2-162)
   (C)   Local limitations. The town, upon recommendation by the Public Works
Director or IDEM, retains the right to add local limitations at any time.
(Prior Code, § 2-163)
   (D)   Limitations on wastewater strength. The town shall have the right to
impose a surcharge for waste discharged into the sewage works whose strength or
characteristics are such that the introduction of the waste into the sewage
works may cause additional costs to the system. Refer to §
52.08(F).
(Prior Code, § 2-164)
(Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
FATS, OILS, AND GREASE (FOG) REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.55 TREATMENTS.
   (A)   Users shall be required to provide pretreatment for FOG at all new,
renovated, and reconstructed restaurants and food service establishments which
may include truck stops and gas stations, and at all industrial, institutional
(medical facilities or schools), or commercial enterprises when, in the opinion
of the town, the facility has the potential to discharge FOG in concentrations
deemed potentially detrimental to the town’s sewage works or POTW.
   (B)   Users whose facilities are required to install FOG equipment shall be
referred to herein as a FOG FACILITY or FOG FACILITIES.
(Prior Code, § 2-165) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 52.56 FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   All FOG facilities shall:
   (A)   Properly install a FOG pretreatment device that is acceptable to the
town and per this division;
   (B)   Maintain FOG pretreatment device as directed by the town at the user’s
expense;
   (C)   Operate the device in compliance with the town’s prohibited discharge
requirements;
   (D)   Be approved by the Public Works Director to operate and maintain an
existing FOG pretreatment device provided these are in proper operating
condition as set forth with this division;
   (E)   Have FOG pretreatment devices with adequate retention time at actual
peak flow between the influent and effluent baffles to allow for any solids to
settle or accumulate and floatable grease-derived materials to rise and
accumulate and prevent discharge limit violations;
   (F)   Assume all responsibility in the sizing, plumbing configuration of the
FOG pretreatment device, and be responsible for what is or is not plumbed into
its FOG pretreatment device;
   (G)   Locate FOG pretreatment devices in easily accessible areas for
inspection by the town and proper maintenance by the user; and
   (H)   Follow additional requirements as established in the town’s Sanitary
Sewer Design and Construction Standards.
(Prior Code, § 2-166) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 52.57 CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Any change in ownership of a FOG facility will be recognized as a new
FOG facility and shall comply with the town’s prohibited discharges per this
division.
   (B)   In the event the occupant changes, building usage changes, and/or new
construction occurs upon any FOG facility, and/or where a change in occupancy,
changes in building usage, and or new construction would cause a non-FOG
facility to become a FOG facility, the user shall notify the town, in writing,
of the changes within 30 days of the date the change takes place.
(Prior Code, § 2-167) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 52.58 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement actions for the requirements in this subchapter shall conform to
the enforcement actions described in §§
50.35 through
50.37.
(Prior Code, § 2-168) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
52.26 shall be fined not less than $50 for the first such violation and not
less than $1,000 for each violation thereafter, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, § 2-153) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE
Section
   
53.01   Dumping; unauthorized
   
53.02   Contract for collection service
   
53.03   Garbage and refuse
   
53.04   Littering
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DUMPING; UNAUTHORIZED.
   The unauthorized dumping, leaving, or placing of any unauthorized materials,
including but not limited to trash, leaves, branches, papers, garbage,
automobile parts, and/or furniture, on any property owned by the town is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 50-1) (Ord. 2000-08-15, passed 8-15-2000) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 CONTRACT FOR COLLECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   Authority to enter into exclusive contract. The Council may exercise
its authority to award an exclusive contract to a private company for the
collection of garbage, refuse, trash, and waste within the town.
   (B)   Competing service prohibited. During the term of any exclusive
contract executed pursuant to this section, no person, firm, company, or
organization shall be permitted to contract or otherwise engage in the business
of refuse collection in competition with the company contracting with the town,
nor utilize the public streets and ways within the town for such purpose.
   (C)   Applicability. This section shall apply only to the collection of
refuse from residential properties, including multi-family dwellings up to and
including four-plexes, and not to commercial or industrial entities.
(Prior Code, § 50-31) (Ord. 1995-0516-B, passed 5-16-1995)
§ 53.03 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   The residential monthly fee for garbage and refuse collection and
other in-town collection services shall be as follows:
 
July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024 $20.15 per unit
July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2025 $21.06 per unit
 
   (B)   The receipts of the above-mentioned fees may be expended by the town
to cover the payment of garbage and refuse collection, sharing the cost of
billing and processing collections of this service, expense of annual
residential dumpster day collections, and apply $1.50 per month towards the
costs for the in-town lawn refuse collection service and equipment maintenance
for this use, by the Public Works Department.
   (C)   Effective with utility bills due on July 1, 2023.
   (D)   All other portions of said section shall remain in full force and
effect.
(Prior Code, § 50-32)
§ 53.04 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place or
discard, or cause the placement or discarding, of any garbage, trash, refuse,
waste, or yard waste, including, but not limited to, paper, plastic, glass,
rubber, cardboard, leaves, grass clippings, brush, food products, and tin and
aluminum cans:
   (1)   On public streets, alleys, parks, easements, ditches, or other public
property; and/or
   (2)   On the property or in collection containers of any other person, firm,
company, or organization
without the express consent thereof.
(Prior Code, § 50-61)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   This chapter shall be subject to the Town Ordinance Violations Bureau
as set out in §
33.03.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2-2)
CHAPTER 54: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
Section
   
54.01   Definition
   
54.02   Approval required
   
54.03   Program implementation
   
54.04   Inspections
   
54.05   Piping
   
54.06   Discontinuance of service
   
54.07   Emergency discontinuance
   
54.08   Backflow preventers
   
54.09   Code provisions
   
54.10   Customer facilities
   
54.11   Notice to consumer
Cross-reference:
Cross-connections; backflow prevention, see §
51.04
Cross-connections generally, see §
52.26
§ 54.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition applies unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the town’s
water system, and the other, water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems,
(Prior Code, § 66-101) (Ord. 2021-01-19, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 54.02 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No interconnection
shall be established whereby potable water from a private, auxiliary, or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the town
may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality, unless such
private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the town and by the state’s
Department of Environmental Management in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(Prior Code, § 66-101) (Ord. 2021-01-19, passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 54.03 PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION.
   It shall be the duty of the town to maintain, administer, and implement the
Cross-Connection Control Program.
(Prior Code, § 66-101) (Ord. 2021-01-19, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 54.04 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the town to cause inspections to be made of all
properties served by the public water system where cross-connections with the
public water system are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and re-
inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be established by
the town.
(Prior Code, § 66-101) (Ord. 2021-01-19, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 54.05 PIPING.
   Upon presentation of credentials, a representative of the town shall have
the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine the property
served by a connection to the public water system of the town for cross-
connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of access
or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross-connections.
(Prior Code, § 66-101) (Ord. 2021-01-19, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 54.06 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The town is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water service to
any property, wherein any connection in violation of this section exists, and
to take such other precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any
danger of contamination of the public water system. Water service shall be
discontinued five business days after the notice is served to the owner,
lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation is found or
suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 66-101) (Ord. 2021-01-19, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 54.07 EMERGENCY DISCONTINUANCE.
   (A)   If it is deemed by the town that a cross-connection or an emergency
endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate action, and
a written finding to the effect is filed with the Clerk- Treasurer and
delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may immediately be discontinued.
   (B)   The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten days of
such emergency discontinuance.
(Prior Code, § 66-101) (Ord. 2021-01-19, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 54.08 BACKFLOW PREVENTERS
   (A)   Installation and maintenance of backflow preventer. All consumers
using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals, mortuaries, wastewater
treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous users install and
maintain a reduced pressure principle backflow preventer in the main water line
serving each building on the premises. The backflow preventer must be installed
in an easily accessible location not subject to flooding or freezing.
   (B)   Installation of backflow preventers below ground level not permitted.
The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be installed below
ground level.
(Prior Code, § 66-101) (Ord. 2021-01-19, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 54.09 CODE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This section does not supersede the State Plumbing Code, the IDEM Rule
327 I.A.C. 8-10, or the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the town, but is supplementary to them.
   (B)    In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 current issue, and the Uniform Building and
Plumbing Code of the state shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 66-101) (Ord. 2021-01-19, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 54.10 CUSTOMER FACILITIES.
   In addition to IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10-4(c), a list of customer facilities
that need a backflow prevention device will be maintained by the town as part
of the Cross-Connection Control Program.
(Prior Code, § 66-101) (Ord. 2021-01-19, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 54.11 NOTICE TO CONSUMER.
   If, in the judgment of the Public Works Director, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water system; the
Public Works Director will give notice to the water consumer to install such an
approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his or her own
expenses, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner
approved by the Public Works Director and shall have inspections and tests made
of such approved devices as required by the Public Works Director and in
accordance with the IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(Prior Code, § 66-101) (Ord. 2021-01-19, passed 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 55: INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGES
Section
   
55.01   Public Works Director; authority
   
55.02   Applicability
   
55.03   Wastewater discharge approval
   
55.04   General requirements
   
55.05   Industrial user compliance
Cross-reference:
Public Works Director, see
50.16
§ 55.01 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR; AUTHORITY.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in this chapter, and which in the judgment of the
Public Works Director may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the Public Works Director may:
   (A)   Require new industries, or industries with a significant increase in
discharges, to submit information on wastewater characteristics, and obtain
prior approval for discharges;
   (B)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reasons deemed
appropriate by the town;
   (C)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage as defined;
   (D)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes to avoid any slug
loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works; and
   (E)   Require the payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loading
discharges to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having the
capacity for and treating such wastes.
(Prior Code, § 2-169) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 55.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   These requirements are intended to protect the sewage works from
discharges, not necessarily only those from manufacturing industries, which may
adversely affect plant operations or permit compliance.
   (B)   The users subject to this section include:
      (1)   An industrial user subject to pretreatment standards and
pretreatment requirements issued a permit by the state;
      (2)   A significant industrial user;
      (3)   Any user deemed by the town that may adversely impact the sewage
works;
      (4)   An indirect discharger; or
      (5)   A major contribution industry.
(Prior Code, § 2-170) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 55.03 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE APPROVAL.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any SIU to discharge any waste stream
to the town’s sewage works or POTW without an Industrial Wastewater
Pretreatment (IWP) permit issued by IDEM or proof that an application has been
submitted and written notice from IDEM that such a permit is not required.
      (2)   Any violation of the terms and/or conditions of an IWP permit shall
be deemed a violation of this division. Obtaining an IWP permit does not
relieve an industrial user of its obligation to obtain other permits required
by federal, state, or local laws.
   (B)   If an industrial user is not required to obtain an IWP permit, the
industrial user shall obtain wastewater discharge approval from the Public
Works Director before discharging any industrial wastewater.
      (1)   (a)   All users must notify the Public Works Director before
discharging to the sewage works. Information to be provided to the Public Works
Director includes the minimum: construction plans including all sewage works
connections, description of activities at the facility, a narrative description
of any pretreatment of wastewaters, and detailed plans of any pretreatment
system.
         (b)   The Public Works Director may require additional information or
equipment.
      (2)   The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the utility under the provisions
of this chapter. The user is to follow all sections of this chapter.
      (3)   The Public Works Director will issue a letter to the user stating
discharge is approved or not required based on the information provided and the
activities to occur within 30 days of receiving the submittal.
      (4)   Discharge approval will be for a period of five years. Users are
required to submit information at least 60 days before permit expiration.
      (5)   (a)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a state permit
or this chapter shall be deemed a violation and subject to §§
50.35 through
50.37.
         (b)   Obtaining a wastewater discharge approval does not relieve a
permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment
standards or pretreatment requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state, and local law.
      (6)   Any user required to obtain wastewater discharge approval who was
discharging wastewater into the sewage works before the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
60 days after said date, apply to the Public Works Director for wastewater
discharge approval and shall not cause or allow discharges to the sewage works
to continue after 180 days of the effective date of this chapter except per a
wastewater discharge approval issued by the Public Works Director.
      (7)   Any user required to obtain wastewater discharge approval from the
Public Works Director who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the
sewage works must obtain such approval before the beginning or recommencing of
such discharge. The wastewater discharge approval process must be completed at
least 30 days before the date upon which any discharge will begin or
recommence.
      (8)   As necessary, the town may engage outside consultation to review
submittals and plans. The user shall agree to pay the town for the actual costs
incurred by the town for the review of the submittals, plans, and accompanying
information. Other review fees may be imposed as deemed necessary by the town.
      (9)   (a)   A user may request that the town treat the information the
user submits to the town as confidential. The user must make such a request at
the time user submits the information to the town. Failure to request
confidential treatment at the time the information is submitted shall
constitute the user’s waiver of any confidentiality of such information.
Contemporaneous with the request for confidential treatment, the user must also
demonstrate why the information is confidential under state law.
         (b)   When properly demonstrated by the user furnishing the
information that such information should be held confidential under state law,
then the town shall take reasonable measures to not disclose the portions of
the information that might disclose such confidential information.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this division shall
prohibit the town from providing any such information to governmental agencies
upon any such agency’s request and for uses related to the NPDES program and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the information.
         (d)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless ordered by a court or
tribunal with jurisdiction, wastewater constituents and characteristics, and
other effluent data, will not be recognized as confidential information and
will be made available to the public without restriction.
   (C)   The town has the right to accept or deny any new or increased
discharges from any discharger.
(Prior Code, § 2-171) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 55.04 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with
this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all pretreatment standards,
pretreatment requirements, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in this
chapter within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the Public
Works Director, whichever is more stringent.
   (B)   Any equipment necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated,
and maintained at the user’s expense.
      (1)   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his, her, or their
expense.
      (2)   (a)   When required by the Public Works Director, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of wastes.
         (b)   Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely
located, and shall be constructed per plans approved by the Public Works
Director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and
shall be maintained by him or her to be safe and accessible at all times.
      (3)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Public Works Director may require
users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that
certain wastewater is discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial
waste streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the
sewage works and determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
      (4)   The Public Works Director may require any person discharging into
the sewage works to install and maintain, on his, her, or their property and at
their expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure
equalization of flow. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for
flow equalization.
      (5)   (a)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the Public Works Director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users.
         (b)   All interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by
the Public Works Director and shall be so located to be easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. Shop drawings for all interceptors shall be submitted
to the utility for approval before being put in service. Such interceptors
shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by the user at
his, her, or their expense.
         (c)   Maintenance and hauling operations should be documented and
records made available at the request of the Public Works Director.
      (6)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Prior Code, § 2-172) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 55.05 INDUSTRIAL USER COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   User monitoring.
      (1)   The town may monitor the discharge from all industrial users that
discharge into the sewage works and POTW. The town may measure the volume of
flow and sample and analyze the discharge from an industrial user for all
parameters contained in an IWP permit and/or this section to ensure compliance
with this chapter.
      (2)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this section shall be
determined per the latest edition of Standard Methods and shall be determined
at the control manhole. If no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works, and to determine the existence of hazards.
      (3)   When requested by the Public Works Director, a user shall submit
information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days
of the request. The Public Works Director is authorized to prepare a form for
this purpose and may periodically require users to update this information.
   (B)   User inspections.
      (1)   The town or authorized representative shall have the right to enter
any house, building, or property that is connected to the sewage works to
determine compliance with an IWP permit and this chapter.
      (2)   If the town or authorized representative have been refused access
to any house, building, property, or any part thereof, then the town may, as
provided in state code, make application to any judge of the county in which
the property in question is located for the issuance of an order compelling the
property owner or occupant to permit entry for the purposes stated therein. Any
such application shall identify specifically the premises upon which entry is
sought and the purpose for which entry is desired.
   (C)   Discharge reporting.
      (1)   An industrial user shall notify the Public Works Director
immediately (i.e., within 24 hours of the discovery of the discharge) upon
discharging chemicals, corrosive substances, or anything deleterious to the
sewage works or POTW, or wastewaters in violation of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, slug loads of compatible pollutants.
      (2)   This notification shall be followed within five days of the date of
occurrence by a detailed written report, signed by the user, describing the
causes of the discharge and the measures being taken to prevent a future
similar occurrence.
   (D)   Changes in facility conditions or ownership.
      (1)   Each industrial user shall notify the town of any planned changes
to the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or
volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before the change. The town may
require the user to submit any information as may be deemed necessary to
evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of an IWP permit
application to IDEM.
      (2)   Planned, significant changes which are subject to this section
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Expansion or addition of wastewater generating production lines
or processes;
         (b)   Projected increases of 20% or greater in monthly flow over the
previous year’s highest monthly flow, or annual average flow over the previous
year’s annual average flow; and/or
         (c)   The discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
      (3)   Any industrial user with a change in ownership will be recognized
as a new industrial facility and shall comply with the town’s prohibited
discharges per this chapter.
      (4)   If a change in a business occurs, the property owner and/or
industrial user shall inform the town of the change within 30 days and inform
the town of the new type of business that is currently operating at said
location.
   (E)   Retention of records. The user and town shall retain all records for
industrial users for a minimum of three years and shall make such records
available for inspection and copying by IDEM or the USEPA. This period of
retention shall be extended during any unresolved litigation regarding the
discharge of pollutants by the industrial user or when requested by IDEM or the
USEPA.
   (F) Right to impose fees for pretreatment program. If necessary, the town
reserves the right to impose fees on any industrial user to offset costs
incurred for monitoring or inspections of a facility.
(Prior Code, § 2-173) (Ord. 2021-12-20-1, passed 12-20-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING AND STOPPING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Vehicle Operation and Equipment
   
70.01   Speed limits
   
70.02   Mufflers; exhaust
   
70.03   Engine-braking
   
70.04   Driving left of center
   
70.05   Disregarding traffic control devices
   
70.06   Improper passing
   
70.07   Unsafe start
   
70.08   Failure to yield right-of-way
   
70.09   Following closely
   
70.10   Weight limits
   
70.11   Damaging streets
Public School Property
   
70.25   Applicability
   
70.26   Speed limits
   
70.27   Parking
   
70.99   Penalty
VEHICLE OPERATION AND EQUIPMENT
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drive or propel any
motorized or other vehicle over or upon the streets in the town at a speed
greater than posted.
(Prior Code, § 62-31) (Ord. 2005-12-27, passed 12-27-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 MUFFLERS; EXHAUST.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate or drive within the town any motor
vehicle without a muffler.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate or run any gasoline, oil, or other
liquid fuel burning engine within the town in any manner such that the noise,
fumes, and/or noxious odors emitted thereby are unreasonably offensive or
annoying to the public.
(Prior Code, § 62-32) (Ord. 2005-12-27, passed 12-27-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 ENGINE-BRAKING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ENGINE-BRAKING. The use or operation of any mechanical exhaust device
designed to aid in the braking, decompression, or deceleration of any motor
vehicle which results in the excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from
such vehicle. Commonly known as JAKE-BRAKING.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor
vehicle to use or operate or cause to be used or operated, at any time and on
any street or road within the town, any mechanical exhaust or decompression
device which results in the practice known as engine-braking, or commonly known
as jake-braking.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the application
of unmuffled compression brakes where necessary for the protection of persons
and/or property which cannot be avoided by application of an alternative
braking system.
      (2)   Noise caused by the application of engine compression brakes,
otherwise known as engine-braking and commonly known as jake-braking, which is
effectively muffled or if the application is necessary for the health, safety,
and welfare of the community is exempt from the provisions of this section.
      (3)   Sounds created by emergency equipment for emergency purposes are
also exempt.
   (D)   Posting of signs. The town’s Street Department is hereby authorized
and directed to post, at reasonable locations within the town, signs indicating
the prohibition of engine-braking and/or jake-braking.
(Prior Code, § 62-33) (Ord. 2005-12-27, passed 12-27-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 DRIVING LEFT OF CENTER.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ROADWAYS; USE OF RIGHT HALF; EXCEPTIONS; TRAVELING AT REDUCED SPEEDS.
Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the right
half of the roadway except as follows:
   (B)   Prohibited acts. None.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing overtaking and passing;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable to a roadway divided into three marked lanes;
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic; and
      (5)   Upon all roadways, a vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place under conditions then existing shall be
driven:
         (a)   In the right-hand lane then available for traffic; or
         (b)   As close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway; except when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway.
(Prior Code, § 62-34) (Ord. 2005-12-27, passed 12-27-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 DISREGARDING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      STOP SIGNS AT INTERSECTIONS; DUTY TO OBEY. A person who drives a vehicle
shall stop at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more
entrances to a through highway that are not a part of the through highway and
proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles that are not required to stop.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. None.
   (C)   Exemptions.
(Prior Code, § 62-35) (Ord. 2005-12-27, passed 12-27-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 IMPROPER PASSING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE; OBEYANCE OF MARKINGS OR SIGNS. A person who
drives a vehicle must obey the markings or signs posted under this section.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. None.
   (C)   Exemptions.
(Prior Code, § 62-36) (Ord. 2005-12-27, passed 12-27-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 UNSAFE START.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      STARTING A VEHICLE THAT IS STOPPED, STANDING, OR PARKED. A person may not
start a vehicle that is stopped, standing, or parked until the movement can be
made with reasonable safety.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. None.
   (C)   Exemptions. None.
(Prior Code, § 62-37) (Ord. 2005-12-27, passed 12-27-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 FAILURE TO YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      INTERSECTIONS; VEHICLES APPROACHING FROM DIFFERENT HIGHWAYS; YIELD RIGHT-
OF-WAY. Except when approaching through highways and areas in which signs are
posted giving other instructions, when two vehicles approach or enter an
intersection from different highways at approximately the same time, the person
who drives the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle
on the right.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. None.
   (C)   Exemptions.
(Prior Code, § 62-38) (Ord. 2005-12-27, passed 12-27-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 FOLLOWING CLOSELY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FOLLOWING OTHER VEHICLES; DISTANCE RESTRICTIONS. A person who drives a
motor vehicle may not follow another vehicle more closely than is reasonable
and prudent, having due regard for the speed of both vehicles, the time
interval between vehicles, and the condition of the highway.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. None.
   (C)   Exemptions. None.
(Prior Code, § 62-39) (Ord. 2005-12-27, passed 12-27-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   The Council shall have the authority to post, from time to time in its
discretion, weight regulations upon any of the streets of the town. This shall
not include state highways located within the town.
   (B)   (1)   At all times during the period of 90 days commencing on February
15 each year, no person shall operate or cause to be operated upon any street,
road, or alley of the town any vehicle or combination of vehicles having a
total gross weight, with load, in excess of 14,000 pounds, except and unless a
written permit therefor shall have been first obtained from the Public Works
Department.
      (2)   The time periods established by this section may be extended or
shortened by the Council, in consultation with and upon the recommendation of
the Public Works Director, based upon the particular weather conditions and the
road conditions in any particular year.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to local pickups and deliveries and other
commercial transactions, provided same are made by the most direct route to the
local destination, using state highways whenever possible. This section shall
also not apply to the routine operation of school and church buses, authorized
trash and garbage vehicles, and fire and other emergency vehicles.
   (D)   Upon obtaining a written permit from the Public Works Department, a
permittee may operate or cause to be operated upon the streets of the town any
lawful vehicle or vehicle combination having a total gross weight, with load,
in excess of the limitation set forth in division (B) above. Provided, however,
that such operation is otherwise lawful and that each permittee shall operate
and move such specifically permitted vehicle and weight on the route and as
directed by such permit.
(Prior Code, § 62-161) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 DAMAGING STREETS.
   Any person who operates or causes to be operated any vehicle or other
equipment which causes ascertainable damage to any street or improved alley of
the town, regardless of whether the vehicle or equipment causing said damage
was properly permitted or otherwise being lawfully operated at the time the
damage was sustained, shall be responsible for reimbursing to the town the
reasonable costs of repairing same.
(Prior Code, § 62-163) Penalty, see §
70.99
PUBLIC SCHOOL PROPERTY
§ 70.25 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to the parking lots, driveways, alleyways, and
other access areas of public schools within the town pursuant to the request of
the Metropolitan School District of Boone Township, Porter County, Indiana, in
Resolution 95-3, passed 6-13-1995.
(Prior Code, § 62-131)
§ 70.26 SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drive, operate, or propel
any motor or other vehicle over or upon any roadway, parking area, or driveway
located on public school property in excess of the speed limit posted thereon,
or, where not posted, in excess of ten mph.
(Prior Code, § 62-132) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or abandon any vehicle on any
roadway, parking lot, driveway, or alleyway located on public school property:
   (A)   On any area other than the parking lot as designated for parking;
   (B)   On the shoulder of any roadway or parking lot roadway;
   (C)   On any non-paved area;
   (D)   In any place designated as a no-parking area by sign or other
markings;
   (E)   On any crosswalk or sidewalk;
   (F)   In any manner so as to obstruct or interfere with the orderly movement
of traffic; or
   (G)   In any manner contrary to the direction of a police officer or school
official.
(Prior Code, § 62-133) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Persons violating §
70.01 shall be subject to civil penalty in the following areas:
 
Speeding 1–10 mph over the posted$75
Speeding 11–26 mph over the poste$100
Speeding in a work zone            $115
Speeding in a school zone          $125
 
(Prior Code, § 62-31)
   (C)   Persons violating §
70.02 shall be subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Section §
70.02 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 62-32)
   (D)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided in this code of
ordinances, any person in violation of §
70.03 shall be punished for a violation thereof as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 62-33)
   (E)   A violation of §
70.04 shall incur a $75 fine per occurrence.
(Prior Code, §§ 62-34 through 62-39)
   (F)   Persons or permittees violating the provisions of §
70.10 shall be subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each vehicle in violation and each occasion a
violation exists shall be separate violations. Section
70.10 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 62-161)
   (G)   In addition to §
70.11, such person shall be subject to punishment in accordance with §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Section
70.11 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 62-163)
   (H)   Persons violating §
70.26 shall be subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Section
70.26 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 62-132)
   (I)   The registered owner(s) of vehicles violating the provisions of §
70.27 shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $10. Each vehicle
shall constitute a separate violation, and each day a violation exists shall
constitute a separate violation. Section
70.27 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 62-133)
(Ord. 2005-12-27, passed 12-27-2005)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Purpose
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Operation
   
71.04   Exclusions
Golf Carts
   
71.15   Use permitted
   
71.16   Slow moving vehicle emblem; display
   
71.17   License required
   
71.18   Financial responsibility
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish reasonable and
responsible regulations for the use of recreational motor vehicles. This
subchapter is not intended to allow what state law prohibits.
   (B)   This subchapter seeks to improve the safety of individuals living in
residential areas, the safety of persons operating recreational motor vehicles,
and to eliminate noise incident to the operation of recreational motor vehicles
on property zoned residential and agricultural within the town limits.
   (C)   This subchapter is desirable to achieve a decrease in the overall
level of noise in such areas, and is intended to prevent a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 62-181) (Ord. 2013-04-16A, passed 4-16-2013)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. Any motorized vehicle with three or more wheels
designed for off-road use.
   MOTOR SCOOTER. A vehicle that has motive power, a seat, but not a saddle,
for the driver, two wheels, and a floor pad for the driver’s feet.
   RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled motorized vehicle used for
recreational purposes, including a trail bike or other all-terrain vehicle,
motor scooter, or moped being either designed for or used for off-road
recreational purposes.
(Prior Code, § 62-182) (Ord. 2013-04-16A, passed 4-16-2013)
§ 71.03 OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a recreational motor vehicle in any area that
is zoned residential or agricultural within the town limits, except as set
forth in division (D) below.
   (B)   No person shall operate a recreational motor vehicle carelessly or
heedlessly in disregard of the rights or the safety of others or in any manner
which endangers or is likely to endanger any person or property.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall enter and operate a recreational motor vehicle
on land not his or her own without the written permission of the owner,
occupant, or lessee of the land, except where otherwise allowed by law.
      (2)   Written permission may be given by posted notice which specifies
the kind of vehicles allowed, such as “Recreational Vehicles Allowed,” “Trail
Bikes Allowed,” “All-Terrain Vehicles Allowed,” or other similar language.
   (D)   No person shall operate a recreational motor vehicle on any public
property, including public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, and
recreational areas, except in areas specifically designated and posted for use
of such vehicles, and except as specifically set forth in §
71.04.
   (E)   No person shall operate a recreational motor vehicle in a manner so as
to create loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise so as to disturb or interfere
with the peace and quiet of other persons.
(Prior Code, § 62-183) (Ord. 2013-04-16A, passed 4-16-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 EXCLUSIONS.
   Specifically excluded from this section are all off-road and recreational
vehicles used by:
   (A)   The Police Department for law enforcement purposes;
   (B)   The town for carrying out the functions of town government; and
   (C)   A farming operation in the normal course of its business.
(Prior Code, § 62-184) (Ord. 2013-04-16A, passed 4-16-2013)
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.15 USE PERMITTED.
   The use of a golf cart is permitted on the streets and alleys of the town.
(Prior Code, § 54-101) (Ord. 2012-05-15, passed 5-15-2012; Ord. 2013-04-16A,
passed 4-16-2013)
§ 71.16 SLOW MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM; DISPLAY.
   A golf cart operated on the streets and alleys of the town shall at all
times display either a slow moving vehicle emblem in accordance with I.C. 9-21-
9-3 or a red or amber flashing lamp in accordance with I.C. 9-21-9-4.
(Prior Code, § 54-102) (Ord. 2012-05-15, passed 5-15-2012; Ord. 2013-04-16A,
passed 4-16-2013)
§ 71.17 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A golf cart operated on the streets and alleys of the town shall at all
times be operated by an individual who possesses a valid state issued driver’s
license.
(Prior Code, § 54-103) (Ord. 2012-05-15, passed 5-15-2012; Ord. 2013-04-16A,
passed 4-16-2013)
§ 71.18 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on the streets or alleys of the
town if financial responsibility is not in effect with respect to the vehicle.
Proof of financial responsibility shall be in accordance with I.C. 9-25-4-4.
   (B)   A person who operates a golf cart on the streets and alleys of the
town shall at all times maintain the state-required minimum amount of financial
responsibility for the operation of said vehicle in the following amounts:
      (1)   Subject to the limit set forth in division (2) below, $25,000 for
bodily injury to or the death of one individual;
      (2)   An amount of $50,000 for bodily injury to or the death of two or
more individuals in any one accident; and
      (3)   An amount of $10,000 for damage to or the destruction of property
in one accident.
(Prior Code, § 54-104) (Ord. 2012-05-15, passed 5-15-2012; Ord. 2013-04-16A,
passed 4-16-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates §§
71.01 through
71.04 shall, on the first offense, be fined $100. A person who violates §§
71.01 through
71.04 a second time within a calendar year of the first offense shall be fined
the sum of $250. A person who violates §§
71.01 through
71.04 a third time, or more, shall be fined a sum not to exceed $2,500. Each
day of violating §§
71.01 through
71.04 shall be construed as a separate violation.
      (2)   All fines collected pursuant to division (B)(1) above shall be
deposited in the general fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 62-185)
(Ord. 2012-05-15, passed 5-15-2012; Ord. 2013-04-16A, passed 4-16-2013)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING AND STOPPING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Obstructing fire lane or fire hydrant
   
72.02   Prohibited parking
   
72.03   Handicapped parking spaces
   
72.04   Trucks, buses, trailers, and recreational vehicles
   
72.05   Residential parking
   
72.06   Snow removal; parking restrictions
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTING FIRE LANE OR FIRE HYDRANT.
   (A)   Designation of fire lanes. The Council, with the approval of the Chief
of the Fire Department, or designee thereof, shall establish and designate
emergency fire lanes as required within the town.
   (B)   Obstructing fire lane. The parking, stopping, or standing of any
personal property, specifically including vehicles, or any other means of
obstructing fire lanes, on public or private property, shall be prohibited at
all times.
   (C)   Removal of property obstructing fire lane.
      (1)   Any vehicle or other personal property found to be obstructing a
fire lane shall be subject to removal by towing upon the request of any law
enforcement officer or Fire Department officer.
      (2)   The owner of such property shall be responsible for the payment of
all towing and storage charges incurred therefor.
   (D)   Obstruction or unauthorized use of fire hydrant.
      (1)   The obstruction of, unauthorized use of, or interference with any
fire hydrant within the town shall be unlawful. This shall include the parking
of any vehicle or other personal property in front of, or within 15 feet of, a
fire hydrant.
      (2)   Any vehicle or other personal property so obstructing a fire
hydrant may be towed or otherwise removed for storage where necessary to permit
the emergency use of such hydrant, at the request of any law enforcement
officer or Fire Department personnel.
      (3)   The owner of such property shall be responsible for the payment of
all towing and storage charges incurred therefor.
(Prior Code, § 62-71) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or abandon any vehicle
within the town in any location where, through markings or signs, it has been
posted as a “No Parking” zone, or in such other manner as to:
      (1)   Create or constitute a traffic hazard;
      (2)   Block or otherwise interfere with the entrance or exit from an
alley or private driveway;
      (3)   Block or otherwise interfere with the use of a sidewalk;
      (4)   Obstruct or constitute a potential obstruction to the movement of
any emergency vehicle;
      (5)   Constitute double parking; or
      (6)   Be parked facing traffic on the side of the road on which it is
parked.
   (B)   This section, and any references herein to public streets or public
property, shall include public parking lots owned, leased, and/or maintained by
the town.
(Prior Code, § 62-72) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Any person who parks a vehicle in a parking space marked and
designated as a handicapped parking space, whether on public or private
property, shall be subject to punishment as provided in §
72.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In the event the person parking the vehicle in violation of this
section cannot be ascertained, the registered owner thereof shall be subject to
the civil penalty provided for herein. This section shall be subject to the
town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 62-73) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 TRUCKS, BUSES, TRAILERS, AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Occupancy. No person shall park, place, or locate a recreational
vehicle, motor home, travel trailer, boat, bus, mobile home, or trailer on any
public or private property within the town for use as temporary or permanent
dwellings without an occupancy permit having been issued therefor.
   (B)   Overnight parking. No person shall park, place, or locate any truck
tractor, large truck, large trailer, semi-trailer, boat, or boat trailer
overnight in any location within the town, whether on public or private
property, which is not zoned for industrial purposes, or otherwise designated
as “Truck Parking.”
   (C)   Parking in residential zones. No person shall park or cause to be
parked on any roadway, alleyway, sidewalk, easement, or street within the town,
located in any area zoned primarily for residential purposes, any truck
tractor, semi-trailer, commercial bus, or trailer, except for the purpose of
making deliveries, loading or unloading, or otherwise conducting commercial
activity, but in no event for a period of more than one hour.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles and utility trailers. Recreational vehicles,
motor homes, travel trailers, boats and boat trailers, and utility trailers
must be parked or stored inside a building, or on property designated for such
parking or storage, or on the driveway or private property of the owner, but in
no event extending over any sidewalk or closer than ten feet from another
person’s property.
(Prior Code, § 62-74) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 RESIDENTIAL PARKING.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, all vehicles and trailers of
any type that are required to be licensed and/or registered with the state’s
Bureau of Motor Vehicles or similar entity and that are located within a
residential zoning district must be parked on a hard surface.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, HARD SURFACE is defined to mean a
surface that is paved or composed of cement, blacktop, paving blocks, or
crushed stone. If the HARD SURFACE is a driveway, the portion of the driveway
that serves as a point of ingress and egress from the roadway shall not be more
than 24 feet wide. The term HARD SURFACE does not include a surface composed of
grass or dirt.
   (C)   The parking restriction contained in division (A) above does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   Vehicles and trailers that are parked on an owner’s property for a
social event or garage sale provided they do not remain impermissibly parked
for longer than 24 hours;
      (2)   Vehicles and trailers that are parked on an owner’s property for
one period of not more than two hours on any one day for the purpose of loading
or unloading; and
      (3)   Operable and licensed vehicles and trailers that are parked within
the area of open space behind a residence in the rear yard as defined in the
town’s Master Plan.
   (D)   Nothing contained within this section shall be construed to relieve
property owners of the need to obtain any applicable permits, licenses, or
variances that my be required elsewhere in this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 62-75) (Ord. 2014-12-16C, passed 12-16-2014) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 SNOW REMOVAL; PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or abandon any vehicle on
any public street within the town at any time within 12 hours after snowfall
has accumulated two inches or more.
   (B)   The amount of snowfall shall be within the judgment of the Public
Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 62-164) (Ord. 2018-11-20-05, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)    In addition to or in lieu of any other actions taken pursuant to §§
72.01 through
72.05, any person violating §
72.01(B) shall be subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Section
72.01(B) shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out
in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 62-71)
   (C)   The registered owner(s) of vehicles violating §
72.02 shall be subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Section
72.02 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 62-72)
   (D)   Any person violating §
72.03 shall be subject to punishment in accordance with §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Section
72.03 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 62-73)
   (E)   The registered owner(s) of vehicles violation the provisions of §
72.04 shall be subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each vehicle shall constitute a separate
violation and each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate
violation. If the vehicle is on private property and the registered owner(s)
cannot be ascertained, the owner of the private property shall be subject to
the civil penalty. Section
72.04 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 62-74)
   (F)   The fine for violation of §
72.05(A) shall be $50 per day for each vehicle that is impermissibly parked.
The property owner shall be responsible for the payment of all fines and
applicable late fees.
(Prior Code, § 62-75)
   (G)   Violations of §
72.06 shall be subject to punishment in this code of ordinances. Each vehicle
and each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation.
      (1)   Penalty: $75 per occurrence.
      (2)   In addition, in the event the vehicle is not immediately removed,
the Town Marshal shall cause said vehicle to be towed or otherwise removed, and
the costs and expenses of such removal and storage thereof shall be assumed by
the owner(s) of the vehicle in addition to and separate from any civil
penalties imposed.
(Prior Code, § 62-164)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Truck routes
SCHEDULE I. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The following town streets are hereby designated as truck routes:
 
Truck Routes
Main Street (State Road 2)
Sigler Street (State Road 8)
State Road 231 to State Road 8
 
   (B)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any truck tractor,
large truck, large trailer, or semi-trailer on any street of the town not
listed in division (A) above, except for the purposes of conducting a limited
commercial transaction, limited to the block on which the site of the
commercial transaction is located. All such excepted vehicles shall travel the
designated routes to the extent possible in reaching and leaving its
destination.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to town municipal vehicles, school
vehicles, or emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 62-162) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animal Warden; animal shelter
   
90.03   Impounding animals
   
90.04   Rabid animals; animal bites
Dogs and Other Domestic Animals
   
90.15   Number of dogs restricted
   
90.16   Prohibited animals
   
90.17   Maximum number of domestic animals
   
90.18   Care of animals
   
90.19   Motor vehicles
   
90.20   Animal waste and carcasses
   
90.21   Mandatory vaccinations
   
90.22   Inspection
   
90.23   Animals permitted
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The county’s animal shelter as established by the Board of
Commissioners of the county, and operated by the designated animal control
authority or agents thereof for the purpose of impounding and caring for
animals held under proper authority.
   ANIMAL WARDEN. The authority employed, appointed, or contracted with by the
Council to perform the duties of effectuating the restraint and impoundment of
animals and the disposition thereof.
   AT LARGE. A domestic animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE if off the
premises of its owner and not under the immediate control of a responsible
person.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming shop, auction, riding
school, stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal exhibition, kennel,
or other establishment in which animals are utilized for commercial purposes.
   CONFINEMENT. Restriction of an animal at all times by its owner or owner’s
agent, in a place and manner designed to prevent direct contact with other
animals and the public.
   DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
      (1)   Any animal which:
         (a)   Has bitten or seriously injured any human being, without
provocation, whether on or off the property of its owner, its owner’s agent, or
its keeper; or
         (b)   Has a history, documented with a public agency or its designee,
of unprovoked biting humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   No animal shall be considered a DANGEROUS ANIMAL if the animal
causes injury or damage to a person while that person is:
         (a)   Committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense against
the owner or agent of the owner;
         (b)   Committing a criminal trespass upon the premises occupied by the
owner, agent, or keeper of the animal; or
         (c)   Teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting an animal.
      (3)   No K-9 patrol dogs or police dogs owned or kept by a law
enforcement agency shall be considered a DANGEROUS ANIMAL when used in the line
of duty or for law enforcement purposes.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.
      (1)   Animals belonging to species normally kept, harbored, and
maintained by persons as pets, irrespective of the particular reason for which
the animal is kept or maintained.
      (2)   These animals include, but are not limited to the following types:
dogs, cats, domestic rodents such as rabbits and guinea pigs, domestic birds
such as parrots and finches, ferrets, small domestic reptiles such as turtles,
lizards and small snakes, fish, frogs, and other domestic animals as may be
defined by state law.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The placement of an animal into the care, custody, and control
of the Animal Warden, county animal control authorities, or animal shelter.
   KENNEL. The premises on which any person, group, firm, or corporation
engages in the business of boarding, breeding, buying, letting, hiring,
training for a fee, or selling, of dogs or cats.
   LIVESTOCK. Horses, stallions, colts, mares, gelding, poultry, sheep, rams,
lambs, bullocks, steers, heifers, cows, calves, bulls, mules, jacks, jennets,
burros, goats, swine, and fur-bearing animals being raised in captivity, which
are commonly known to be raised for food, commercial, or agricultural purposes.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in an animal, or who keeps or
harbors an animal, or who has an animal in his or her care, custody, or
control, or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied by the person.
   STRAY. Any animal not secured by a leash or lead, or not under the control
of a responsible person, or not confined within the real property limits of its
owner, and for which, after a reasonable search, no owner can be ascertained.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that, by virtue of its nature or demonstrated
propensities, constitutes a threat to the physical safety of persons or other
animals.
   WILD ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any live non-human primate, raccoon, skunk, fox, opossum, leopard,
panther, tiger, lion, bear, lynx, or any other warm-blooded animal which is not
typically tame and can normally be found in the wild state.
      (2)   WILD ANIMAL also includes large and/or venomous cold-blooded
animals of the type typically considered dangerous to humans, including, but
not limited to, alligators, crocodiles, and venomous snakes.
(Prior Code, § 6-1) (Ord. 2018-10-16-03, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 90.02 ANIMAL WARDEN; ANIMAL SHELTER.
   (A)   Appointment of Animal Warden; animal shelter. The Council may appoint
or employ an Animal Warden and create an animal shelter, or may contract with
another governmental or private organization for services as set out in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2)
   (B)   Duties of Animal Warden. An Animal Warden, whether appointed,
employed, or contracted with, shall be responsible for the maintenance and
operation of all equipment required to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
The Animal Warden shall respond to all valid calls for pickup of animals as
quickly as practical, and shall be in charge of the care and disposition of
impounded animals in accordance with American Veterinary Association
guidelines. The Animal Warden shall have the responsibility for the
investigation of animal abuse complaints.
(Prior Code, § 6-3)
§ 90.03 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Impoundment authorized. An animal may be impounded under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   A stray animal brought to the Animal Warden by any resident of the
town;
      (2)   A stray animal picked up by the Animal Warden;
      (3)   An injured animal for which no owner can immediately be located;
      (4)   Biting or vicious animals or those suspected of being rabid; or
      (5)   Dogs without current license tags.
(Prior Code, § 6-4)
   (B)   Disposition of impounded animals.
      (1)   Any owner wishing to reclaim his or her impounded animal must show
proof of current rabies vaccination and state licensure. If such proof is not
available, a warning citation requiring vaccination and state licensure shall
be presented to the owner, and such proof must be provided to the Animal Warden
within five days.
      (2)   Repeat offenders shall be subject to an escalating fee for each
successive impoundment, regardless of whether the owner reclaims the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-5)
§ 90.04 RABID ANIMALS; ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   Any biting animal shall be placed under rabies observation for a
period of ten days. In the event a person is bitten by an animal, the following
procedures shall apply.
      (1)   If there is evidence of a current rabies vaccination, and one month
has expired since the first vaccination, and the bite is not inflicted on the
face, head, or neck of the person, the animal is eligible for home confinement
at the discretion of the Animal Warden or shelter director.
      (2)   If there is no evidence of a current vaccination or if the bite is
on the face, head, or neck, the animal shall be impounded.
      (3)   Failure to provide vaccination information within two business days
of the biting incident shall result in legal action against the owner.
      (4)   The owner of a biting animal under home confinement shall be
required to furnish evidence of a veterinary examination for the animal on the
first, fifth, and tenth days. Any costs incurred shall be assumed by the owner.
Necessary reporting forms shall be furnished by the Animal Warden.
      (5)   The Animal Warden shall be responsible for the cost of injured
animals taken to a veterinary clinic for emergency examination and treatment.
Such costs shall be reimbursed to the Animal Warden by the owner at the time
the animal is either reclaimed or adopted.
   (B)   Persons adopting animals left with the Animal Warden shall be
responsible for having the animal examined by a veterinarian within two
business days for adoption and to obtain all necessary vaccinations.
(Prior Code, § 6-6)
DOGS AND OTHER DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 90.15 NUMBER OF DOGS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   The housing of more than three dogs over the age of six months within
the corporate limits of the town is prohibited, unless the location of said
housing shall qualify as a kennel.
   (B)   The housing of more than three dogs over the age of six months and the
operation of a kennel shall be subject to all provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-31) (Ord. 2000-10-17, passed 10-17-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep, maintain, or have in his or her possession or
under his or her control within the town, any animals other than DOMESTIC
ANIMALS as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to institutions of higher learning,
zoological parks, circuses, veterinary offices, or businesses harboring animals
specifically for the purpose of rehabilitation and release into their natural
habitat pursuant to a valid wildlife permit issued by the state or an agency of
the United States.
(Prior Code, § 6-32) (Ord. 2018-10-16-03, passed 10-16-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep more than a total of four domestic animals over the age
of six months per household in any residential area. No more than three of
these domestic animals may be dogs. This section does not apply to fish.
(Prior Code, § 6-33) (Ord. 2018-10-16-03, passed 10-16-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 CARE OF ANIMALS.
   Every owner shall see that each of his or her animals:
   (A)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and is not confined
so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement;
   (B)   Has sufficient and wholesome food and water, which is proper and
nutritional for that species of animal;
   (C)   Lives in a structure which will protect that animal from all elements
of the weather and will allow that animal to stand, sit, move around
comfortably, and lie down without restrictions, and which is kept in a sanitary
manner;
   (D)   If ill, diseased, or injured, receives proper veterinary care as
necessary to promote the good health of the animal and prevent the transmittal
of a disease to other animals or humans;
   (E)   Is not beaten, ill-treated, tormented, or otherwise abused, neglected,
or abandoned;
   (F)   Is not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian, except for grooming;
   (G)   Is not involved in any fighting or combat activity between animals or
between animals and humans, such as dog fighting or cock fighting;
   (H)   Does not become a public nuisance;
   (I)   Does not become a dangerous animal;
   (J)   In the case of a dog or cat over the age of three months, is properly
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually, or upon such
frequency as may be specified by state law; and/or
   (K)   Is properly restrained and not at large.
(Prior Code, § 6-34) (Ord. 2018-10-16-03, passed 10-16-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Animals in motor vehicles.
      (1)   No animal shall be left in a motor vehicle when the conditions in
that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to that animal, or when the
weather would constitute a health hazard to the animal confined in the motor
vehicle.
      (2)   Nor shall any person transport any animal in an unenclosed truck
bed or open section of any vehicle unless the animal is enclosed in a cage
which is securely fastened to the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-35)
   (B)   Animals hit by motor vehicles.
      (1)   No person operating a motor vehicle shall knowingly hit, run over,
kill, or otherwise cause injury to any domestic animal.
      (2)   If a motorist does so injure an animal, the motorist shall
immediately notify the Police Department. The notice shall include the
motorist’s name, address, phone number, type of animal hit, and the location of
the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-36)
(Ord. 2018-10-16-03, passed 10-16-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 ANIMAL WASTE AND CARCASSES.
   (A)   Any person taking a dog or cat outside of the owner’s real property
limits must immediately remove any excrement deposited by the animal on any
public or private property.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of any dead animal shall remove and properly dispose
of the animal within 24 hours after its death.
      (2)   The real property owner is responsible for the removal of any wild
or domestic animal carcasses on his or her real property.
   (C)   (1)   Any owner of an animal depositing excrement on owner’s private
property must clean up said waste within a reasonable amount of time.
      (2)   An owner shall not allow said waste to accumulate to an extent that
it causes orders to travel onto adjacent property or becomes unsightly.
      (3)   Waste accumulating in such a manner may be considered a nuisance
and be subject to the penalties of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-37) (Ord. 2018-10-16-03, passed 10-16-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 MANDATORY VACCINATIONS.
   (A)   Every dog or cat over the age of three months must receive, from a
licensed veterinarian, an anti-rabies vaccine. Every such animal must be
vaccinated annually.
   (B)   The owner shall maintain proof of all dog and cat vaccinations so that
they can be presented to the town or its agents upon request.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall subject
the owner of the unvaccinated dog and/or cat to being issued an ordinance
violation citation.
(Prior Code, § 6-38) (Ord. 2018-10-16-03, passed 10-16-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 INSPECTION.
   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this subchapter, or when there is
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any
premises any violation of the provisions of this subchapter or state law, a
Health Officer, police officer, code enforcement agent, or animal control
officer is authorized at all reasonable times to inspect the same for
compliance with the provision of this subchapter or any state law, provided
that:
   (A)   If the property is occupied, the officer first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining the reasons therefor;
and
   (B)   If the property is unoccupied, the officer shall make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having control of the property and
request entry, explaining the reasons therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6-39) (Ord. 2018-10-16-03, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 90.23 ANIMALS PERMITTED.
   (A)   (1)   Any dog or other DOMESTIC ANIMAL, as defined herein, formally
trained to perform tasks for the benefit of individuals with disabilities,
including psychiatric, cognitive, and mental disabilities, shall be considered
a SERVICE ANIMAL under this subchapter.
      (2)   The term SERVICE ANIMAL does not include wild animals (including
those born in captivity), reptiles, rodents of any variety, farm animals
(including any breed of horse, miniature horse, pony, pig, or goat), ferrets,
and amphibians.
      (3)   Animals whose sole function is to provide emotional support,
comfort, companionship, or to promote emotional well-being are not SERVICE
ANIMALS as defined in this division (A).
   (B)   (1)   No person owning or operating any public place of business shall
exclude from entry any service animal that has been formally trained to assist
individuals with disabilities
      (2)    However, such animal must be in the company of the disabled
individual for whom it was trained to assist or in the company of a licensed
obedience service trainer.
(Prior Code, § 6-41) (Ord. 2018-10-16-03, passed 10-16-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Warning notices.
         (a)   Persons who fail to have their dogs or cats vaccinated pursuant
to §§
90.18 and
90.21 may be served with a warning notice requesting immediate compliance. A
police officer or code enforcement official may serve this notice. Only one
warning notice under this division (B) may be given per year to an individual
who has failed to have a dog or cat vaccinated.
         (b)   The warning notice shall contain the name and address of the
violator, the section violated, nature of the violation, date, time, and
location of the violation, the name of the officer issuing the warning notice,
and the telephone number of the officer to contact for information.
      (2)   Citations.
         (a)   Any person served with a warning notice for failure to have a
dog or cat vaccinated and who fails to comply within ten days, and any person
who violates any other provision of §§
90.15 through
90.23 may be issued a citation
         (b)    Citations shall contain the name and address of the violator,
the ordinance section violated, the date, time, and nature of the violation,
location of the violation, and the name of the person issuing the citation.
      (3)   Fines.
         (a)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this §§
90.15 through
90.23 shall be subject to a fine of $50 per violation. Each day said violation
is not remedied constitutes a separate violation subject to a citation and
fine.
         (b)   Any provision under §§
90.15 through
90.23 subject to an escalating fee: the fee shall escalate in an amount double
to the prior violation fee.
(Prior Code, § 6-40) (Ord. 2018-10-16-03, passed 10-16-2018)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Fire hydrants
Fireworks
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Special permit
   
91.17   Use and discharge
   
91.18   Manufacturer, wholesaler, importer, or distributor
   
91.19   Identification of fireworks
   
91.20   Sales
   
91.21   Revocation of special permit
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All fire hydrants connected to the town’s water system shall be
flushed and exercised not less than once in each calendar year.
   (B)   In the case of privately-owned and maintained hydrants, the owner of
said hydrants shall coordinate the date on which the privately-owned fire
hydrants are to be maintained, exercised, and flushed with the Public Works
Department so that a representative of the Public Works Department is present
at the time that said hydrants are maintained, exercised, and flushed to ensure
that the hydrant owner and his or her personnel are trained on how to properly
maintain, flush, and exercise the hydrants.
   (C)   All owners of privately-owned hydrants connected to the town’s water
system shall maintain records available on their premises showing the dates and
results of all testing and maintenance required by this section and shall
provide copies of said records to the Fire Department and the Public Works
Department.
   (D)   Any hydrant that is found to be, in the sole discretion of the Chief
of the Fire Department, faulty or inoperative shall be promptly repaired or
replaced by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 18-51) (Ord. 2013-11-19B, passed 11-19-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
FIREWORKS
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
      (1)   Small fireworks that are defined as small devices designed to
produce an audible effect, such as whistling devices, ground devices containing
50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and aerial devices containing
130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
      (2)   Propelling or expelling charges of a mixture of charcoal, sulfur,
and potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to produce an audible
effect.
      (3)   Aerial devices may include sky rockets, missile-type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, Roman candles, mines, and shells.
   FIREWORKS EXCLUSIONS. The following items are excluded in the definition of
FIREWORKS: Model rockets, toy pistol caps, emergency signal flares, matches,
fixed ammunition for firearms, ammunition components intended shells,
cartridges and primers, indoor pyrotechnics special effects material, and any
device banned by the federal government.
   GROUND AUDIBLE DEVICES WHICH INCLUDE FIRECRACKERS, SALUTES, AND CHASERS.
Devices containing combinations of the effects described as aerial devices, and
GROUND AUDIBLE DEVICES are also includable as CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   SECTION 8(A) FIREWORKS. Dipped sticks; wire sparklers; cylindrical
fountains; cone fountains; illuminating torches; wheels; ground spinners;
flitter sparklers; snakes or glow worms; smoke devices; and trick noisemakers
such as party poppers, booby traps, snappers, trick matches, cigarette loads,
and auto burglar alarms.
(I.C. 22-11-14-8(a))
   SPECIAL FIREWORKS.
      (1)   Fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects
by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, including firecrackers containing
more than 130 milligrams of explosive composition, aerial shells containing
more than 40 grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other exhibition display
items that exceed the limits for classification as consumer fireworks.
      (2)   A person may not possess, transport, or deliver SPECIAL FIREWORKS,
except as authorized under I.C. 22-11-14-2.
(Prior Code, § 18-32) (Ord. 2007-6-19, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 91.16 SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   The owner, occupant, or agent of an organization, business, or
group that uses any type of fireworks or pyrotechnic special effects materials,
used indoor or outdoor, shall apply for a special permit issued by the Council
at least 14 calendar days prior to the use of the fireworks pyrotechnical
devices.
      (2)   This permit shall be in addition to any other permits required by
federal or state agencies. The permits must be made available upon request of
the Chief of the Fire Department or his or her designee.
   (B)   The storage, use, and handling of fireworks and pyrotechnics special
effects shall be in accordance with Indiana Fire Code (675 I.A.C. 22), 76, and
I.C. 22-11-14 et seq., and the current addition of the National Fire Protection
Association’s standards for fireworks.
   (C)   An applicant shall pay a fee of $100 when submitting the special
permit application.
   (D)   The special permit application must be approved and signed by the
Council and contain the following information to be valid:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the individual person or
company doing the production or display;
      (2)   Name and qualifications of the individual person or operator doing
the production or display;
      (3)   Contact name, address, and telephone number for whom the production
or display is being performed;
      (4)   A detailed location where the display shall take place;
      (5)   Date and time of the display;
      (6)   Estimated number of fireworks or pyrotechnical devices to be used
and length of show; and
      (7)   A copy of a valid certificate of insurance conditioned for damages
and/or injury to persons or property for said event in the amount of not less
than $1,000,000 shall be attached to and submitted with each application for
and shall become part of the special permit.
   (E)   The above fees or requirements may be waived by the Council for any
public fireworks display sponsored by any state or local governmental agency.
(Prior Code, § 18-33) (Ord. 2007-6-19, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 91.17 USE AND DISCHARGE.
   The new state law includes the following general provisions that provide
distinct limitations regarding the actual use of the fireworks.
   (A)   Age requirement. Consumer fireworks and fireworks listed under I.C.
22-11-14-8(a) shall not be purchased by persons under 18 years of age.
   (B)   Possession by minors. Children shall only possess or use any kind of
fireworks when an adult is present.
   (C)   Location of use. Consumer fireworks shall exclusively be used on:
      (1)   The user’s property;
      (2)   The property of someone who has consented to the use of fireworks
on the property; or
      (3)   A location authorized by special permit as a special discharge
location, that is defined as a place designated for the discharge of consumer
fireworks under policies of the State Fire Marshal in effect until the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission adopts rules, as amended from time to
time.
   (D)   Exemptions. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the use of
fireworks by railroads or other transportation agencies, the sale or use of
blank cartridges for a show, ceremonial purpose, use by military organizations,
the intrastate sale of fireworks not approved for sale in the state between
interstate wholesalers, use of indoor pyrotechnics special effects material,
and the possession, sale, or disposal of fireworks incidental to the public
display of authorized Class B fireworks.
   (E)   Time of use. A person may utilize consumer fireworks and I.C. 22-11-
14-6 fireworks on the following specific days and no other, without a special
permit as follows:
      (1)   Between 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June 29, June 30,
July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July 9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on July 4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (F)   Special permit. A person seeking to discharge fireworks, except as
permitted in division (E) above, must apply for and obtain a special permit as
provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 18-34) (Ord. 2007-6-19, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 91.18 MANUFACTURER, WHOLESALER, IMPORTER, OR DISTRIBUTOR.
   It shall be unlawful for a manufacturer, wholesaler, importer, or
distributor to sell at wholesale, offer to sell at wholesale, or ship, or cause
to be shipped into the town, fireworks, novelties, or trick noisemakers unless
they hold a valid certificate of compliance issued by the State Fire Marshal.
This provision applies to nonresidents and residents of the state.
(Prior Code, § 18-35) (Ord. 2007-6-19, passed 6-19-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 IDENTIFICATION OF FIREWORKS.
   All fireworks, novelties, and trick noisemakers shipped into the town or
manufactured and sold in the town, must have distinctly and durably painted,
stamped, printed, or marked on the package, box, or container, in which the
items are enclosed, the exact nature and quantity of the fireworks contained in
the container.
(Prior Code, § 18-36) (Ord. 2007-6-19, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 91.20 SALES.
   (A)   Retailers may not sell consumer fireworks until the retailer has met
all permit requirements and has obtained a certificate of compliance from the
State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   Certificate of compliance issued to a retailer of consumer fireworks
is not transferable except to a subsequent owner or operator of a business at
the same location in accordance with the policies and guidelines of the State
Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 18-37) (Ord. 2007-6-19, passed 6-19-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 REVOCATION OF SPECIAL PERMIT.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates I.C. 22-11-14 et seq., or the
provisions herein shall be subject to applicable penalties and/or revocation of
their permit to sell fireworks. This provision shall apply to all retailers,
manufacturers, wholesalers, importers, and distributors.
(Prior Code, § 18-38) (Ord. 2007-6-19, passed 6-19-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
91.01 shall result in a fine in the amount of $100 per hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 18-51)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §§
91.15 through
91.21 shall, upon conviction or finding of liable, be fined in an amount not
less than $100 and not exceeding $2,500 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 18-39)
(Ord. 2007-6-19, passed 6-19-2007; Ord. 2013-11-19B, passed 11-19-2013)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Sale or rental of housing; discrimination
   
92.05   Residential real estate-related transactions; discrimination
   
92.06   Brokerage service; discrimination
   
92.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation
   
92.09   Equal access
   
92.10   Exemptions
   
92.11   Enforcement
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974,, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 30-31) (Ord. 2017-03-21, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04 through
92.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in this section.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802, and 910
I.A.C. 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely
because that individual is a transvestite 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases
under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Prior Code, § 30-32) (Ord. 2017-03-21, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
92.09 of this chapter, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and
in §
92.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period;
         (b)   The private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor
have owned or reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-
family houses at any one time;
         (c)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C), but nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; and
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He, she, or they have, within the preceding 12 months, participated
as principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 30-33) (Ord. 2017-03-21, passed 3-21-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING; DISCRIMINATION.
   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §§
92.03(B) and
92.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling;
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 112.01 et seq., and of the
American National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility
and usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (H)(3)(c)3. above; and
      (5)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
of safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 30-34) (Ord. 2017-03-21, passed 3-21-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS; DISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 30-35) (Ord. 2017-03-21, passed 3-21-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 BROKERAGE SERVICE; DISCRIMINATION.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Prior Code, § 30-36) (Ord. 2017-03-21, passed 3-21-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
92.03 through
92.06.
(Prior Code, § 30-37) (Ord. 2017-03-21, passed 3-21-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or her is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting, or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; and/or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Prior Code, § 30-38) (Ord. 2017-03-21, passed 3-21-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 EQUAL ACCESS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. §§ 5.403 and 574.3, the definition of FAMILY is
revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Prior Code, § 30-39) (Ord. 2017-03-21, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 92.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin.
      (2)   Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in
fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
ELDERLY PERSON, as defined in the state or federal program;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Prior Code, § 30-40) (Ord. 2017-03-21, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 92.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the town shall refer all said complaints to the State Civil Rights Commission
as provided for under division (A) above to said State Civil Rights Commission
for purposes of investigation, resolution, and appropriate relief as provided
for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the State Civil Rights
Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town or the chief elected official’s
designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(Prior Code, § 30-41) (Ord. 2017-03-21, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations, or facilities described in §
92.08(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state, and federal law; and if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 30-38) (Ord. 2017-03-21, passed 3-21-2017)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Nuisances
   
93.01   Purpose; administration
   
93.02   Incorporation of state law
   
93.03   Inspections
   
93.04   Definitions
   
93.05   Conditions constituting public nuisance
   
93.06   Notice of violation
   
93.07   Citation for failure to abate nuisance
   
93.08   Abatement
   
93.09   Institution of enforcement of action
   
93.10   Procedure of collection
Conditions and Regulations
   
93.25   Weeds and grass
   
93.26   Hazardous substances
   
93.27   Unregistered; abandoned vehicles
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL NUISANCES
§ 93.01 PURPOSE; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to protect the public safety,
health, and welfare and enhance the environment of the people of the town by
making it unlawful to allow any material growth of weeds, grass, or other rank
vegetation to exist.
   (B)   It is further unlawful to maintain a public nuisance.
   (C)   This subchapter is to be administered by the Council’s duly authorized
representative. It is not the Council’s intent to include within its definition
of PUBLIC NUISANCE land that is left mostly in its natural condition or farm
fields.
(Prior Code, § 26-31) (Ord. 2018-09-18-01, passed 9-18-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   This section, adopted in accordance with I.C. 36-7-10.1, incorporates
the provisions of I.C. 36-7-10.1 et seq., as they now exist and are hereafter
amended.
   (B)   This section further incorporates the requirements of I.C. 36-1-6-1,
as it now exists and is hereafter amended.
(Prior Code, § 26-32) (Ord. 2018-09-18-01, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 93.03 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All officers and employees of the town shall report the existence of
nuisances to the town’s duly authorized representative.
   (B)   For this purpose, the representative designated by the Council shall
have the authority to visit, enter into, or upon any property or premises
within the limits of the town in accordance with the requirements of other
applicable law to ascertain and discover any nuisance and to make examination
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 26-33) (Ord. 2018-09-18-01, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 93.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
the state as a public nuisance. Whenever the word NUISANCE is used in this
subchapter, it refers to a public nuisance.
   OWNER. The record owner or record contract purchaser of the real estate, all
as shown by the recorder in the County Courthouse.
   RANK VEGETATION. Plant life which grows excessively and unmanageably upon
the land.
   WEEDS. A plant held to have little or no material public value, which tends
to overgrow or choke out more desirable plants, and is usually growing, or has
the potential to grow, plentifully and detrimentally upon the land.
(Prior Code, § 26-34) (Ord. 2018-09-18-01, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 93.05 CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
the state as a public nuisance may, when found to exist within the town limits,
be treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in this town’s
ordinances, or in accordance with any other provisions of law.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, tenant, or any other person having a substantial
interest in any improved or unimproved real property within the town, or any
agent thereof, shall permit or allow to remain on or within that property or
upon abutting public ways any materials, trash, garbage, debris, or any other
matter which is detrimental to the public health, comfort, safety, or the
aesthetic well-being of the community.
   (C)   The following conditions, but not limited only to those, shall
constitute public nuisances for the purpose of this subchapter:
      (1)   Litter;
      (2)   Fallen trees, stumps, or dead trees;
      (3)   Boxes, appliances, furniture, household items, tires, tools,
fixtures, and long-term storage construction material;
      (4)   Demolition remains;
      (5)   Open excavations, uncovered or improperly covered holes, whether
lined or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property,
including open foundations;
      (6)   Dressing of any animal;
      (7)   Structure defaced with paint or wording;
      (8)   Any wastewater, filth, offal, garbage, trash, rubbish, animal
waste, or human excrement which is deposited, allowed, or caused to be upon any
property;
      (9)   Any substance which caused or permitted to flow onto or be
deposited upon any public property or public way, except natural surface water
drainage;
      (10)   The erection of a dam or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the flow of water and causes it to collect or pool upon any
public property;
      (11)   Any dead animal;
      (12)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease and is likely to cause an imminent health hazard;
      (13)   The placing or accumulation on or within any real or personal
property or the permitting of same, of any matter which attracts or may attract
rodents, insects, or animals in such a matter as to create a health hazard or
unsanitary or dangerous condition;
      (14)   Any real or personal property used as place of residence or
habitation for sleeping that is maintained in such a way as to be dangerous or
detrimental to life or health due to the lack of, or defects in, water,
drainage, heating, plumbing, or ventilation;
      (15)   Any dilapidated or condemned building, structure, or dwelling, so
out of remains thereof, so out of repair that it constitutes a fire hazard
liable to catch on fire or communicate fire to surrounding properties;
      (16)   Any noxious or repugnant odor, smoke, dust, or noise that emits
from the premises into the surrounding atmosphere which created an
uncomfortable condition to surrounding properties;
      (17)   The storage of explosive, combustible, or other flammable material
which creates a safety or health risk;
      (18)   Any trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow, fences, or other material which
obstruct public ways or cause a visual barrier for vehicular traffic;
      (19)   Any junk automobiles, broken concrete, scrap metal, or automobile
parts; and/or
      (20)   Any growth of weeds, grass, or other rank vegetation which is
either:
         (a)   Neglected, disregarded, or not adequately managed or controlled,
cut, mown, or removed;
         (b)   Has attained a height of eight inches or more; or
         (c)   Is actually or imminently detrimental to the public health,
safety, or welfare.
(Prior Code, § 26-35) (Ord. 2018-09-18-01, passed 9-18-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Violations of the requirements of this subchapter shall be addressed through
the town’s duly authorized representative as follows.
   (A)   When a public nuisance is found to exist, the town’s representative
shall notify the property’s owner to abate the nuisance according to applicable
law.
   (B)   (1)   The written notice to abate shall be served upon an owner by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a “Notice” placard conspicuously
posted on the property; a copy of the notice will be sent by regular first
class United States mail, postage prepaid, granting a minimum of ten calendar
days to abate the nuisance.
      (2)   That notice shall state the nature of the nuisance and the penalty
for neglect or refusal to abate the nuisance.
      (3)   That notice shall also contain the address and the telephone number
of the town, and a notification that if the nuisance is not abated within ten
calendar days of that notice, the town may abate the nuisance and seek recovery
for its costs of doing so.
   (C)   Within ten calendar days of delivery of a notice to abate, the owner
may notify the town in writing of any specific objection to that notice. No
further abatement action shall be pursued until such action is directed by the
Council.
   (D)   If after the expiration of those ten calendar days the public nuisance
continues unabated, and either no objection has been made or an objection has
been made and considered by the Council and the Council has overruled the
objection, further action shall be taken to abate that nuisance in accordance
with this section and applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 26-36) (Ord. 2018-09-18-01, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 93.07 CITATION FOR FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   Whenever the town’s representative, after the expiration of the notice,
determines that the property’s owner has failed to abate the nuisance, the
town’s representative may cause a citation to be issued against that owner.
(Prior Code, § 26-37) (Ord. 2018-09-18-01, passed 9-18-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 ABATEMENT.
   Upon failure, neglect, or refusal of any party to comply with the notice to
abate, in addition to the issuance of a citation under §
93.07, the town’s representative in the name of the Council may cause the town
to abate, by any reasonable means, the public nuisance and thereafter furnish
the Council with a statement of the costs of that abatement.
(Prior Code, § 26-38) (Ord. 2018-09-18-01, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 93.09 INSTITUTION OF ENFORCEMENT OF ACTION.
   An action for appropriate relief may be brought against an alleged violator
in the County Superior Court.
(Prior Code, § 26-39) (Ord. 2018-09-18-01, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 93.10 PROCEDURE OF COLLECTION.
   (A)   The town’s representative shall make and issue to the owner a bill for
those abatement costs, including administrative costs, attorney fees, and
fines. That bill shall be delivered to the owner by any reasonable means
including first class mail sent to the address as it appears upon the tax
duplicates in the records of the County Auditor. The owner shall pay the amount
of the bill to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office within 30 days of the date of that
delivery unless, within those 30 days the owner notifies that office in writing
of any objection to that bill. If that notice is given, no further collection
action shall be taken until the Council acts on the objection.
   (B)   If the 30 days has expired and either no timely objection to the bill
has been made or the Council has overruled any timely objection and the bill is
not paid in full, then the bill for all such costs which the owner has failed
to pay shall be certified to the County Auditor to be placed on the tax
duplicate for the property with the result that the amount so certified shall
be collected as delinquent taxes are collected.
(Prior Code, § 26-40) (Ord. 2018-09-18-01, passed 9-18-2018)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 93.25 WEEDS AND GRASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      RANK VEGETATION. Uncontrolled growth of any plants including, but not
limited to, weeds and grasses.
      WEEDS. Any uncultivated plants occurring naturally which have a tendency
to dominate or drive out grasses and desirable plants.
(Prior Code, § 70-31)
   (B)   Prohibited conditions; cutting required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any real estate
within the town to permit any obnoxious or unsightly weeds or rank vegetation
to mature, or to permit the grass or lawns to grow to excessive, unsightly
heights upon property owned or occupied by such person, firm, corporation, or
upon, in, or along any of the sidewalks, streets, lanes, or alleys adjoining
the same; and such persons shall, at least once during each of the months of
April, May, June, July, August, September, and October, cut or remove all such
weeds or rank vegetation, and cut or mow such grass or lawns, growing upon such
property.
      (2)   Any trees, bushes, or vegetation which interferes with a right-of-
way of the town may be removed by the town without notice.
(Prior Code, § 70-32)
   (C)   Notice; removal or cutting by town.
      (1)   (a)   In the event the owner or occupant of any real estate within
the town shall fail to comply with the provisions of this section within ten
days of written notice from the town, the Council shall direct the Street
Department’s head to enter upon the property to perform the necessary
maintenance, or to employ a suitable person or firm to perform the necessary
maintenance thereon.
         (b)   This section may be enforced by the Police Department, the
Building Commissioner, and/or the Public Works Department of the town.
      (2)   In the event the real estate in question is unoccupied, and the
owner is not readily ascertainable, the notice provided for in this section
shall be sufficient if posted upon the property.
      (3)   In the event that the location or height of any trees, bushes, or
vegetation poses a traffic safety threat, such condition may be immediately
corrected by the town without notice.
(Prior Code, § 70-33)
   (D)   Lawn and garden waste disposal.
      (1)   All residents shall dispose of their lawn/garden waste in an
appropriate manner on their own property or arrange to have the same removed
from their property.
      (2)   No lawn/garden waste shall be deposited upon or disposed of by any
resident on the town’s property, streets, or driveways within the town.
      (3)   All residents who employ a lawn service, employees, or other
individuals to maintain their property shall be responsible for the proper
removal of lawn/garden waste. All persons, firms, and corporations shall comply
with the terms of this section.
(Prior Code, § 70-35)
(Ord. 2002-11-19C, passed 11-19-2002; Ord. 2003-5-20, passed 5-20-2003; Ord.
2014-11-18, passed 11- 18-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purposes of this section shall be as follows:
      (1)   To facilitate the efficient and effective delivery of emergency
response services;
      (2)   To protect the safety of the public;
      (3)   To protect the safety of emergency personnel, including fire,
ambulance, and police; and
      (4)   To protect the environment.
(Prior Code, § 26-61)
   (B)   Storage and handling. All hazardous substances shall be stored,
handled, and maintained so as to prevent incompatible contamination and to
promote the health, safety, and welfare of all persons, property, the
community, and the environment. Hazardous substances and materials are those
defined by County Ordinance 90-45, as amended herein.
(Prior Code, § 26-62)
   (C)   Lockbox required.
      (1)   The owners, lessees, and occupants of any property, site, or
facility on which hazardous substances are stored, used, handled, maintained,
or manufactured shall install and maintain a lockbox.
      (2)   The purpose of the lockbox is to provide a safe, secure, and
readily-available location of information deemed necessary for emergency
responders to a hazardous substance incident, to assist in the expeditious
control and neutralization of the incident.
      (3)   The lockbox shall be designed to house a loose-leaf notebook of
sufficient size to contain all information specified herein, and shall be
constructed of materials sufficient to withstand the elements, to remain
waterproof, and to accept a padlock.
      (4)   The lockbox shall be secured with a padlock acquired by the
facility, with keys therefor to be kept at the site, and also provided to the
Fire Department and the Police Department.
      (5)   The lockbox shall be readily identifiable by being coated with a
highly reflective white coating.
      (6) The location of the lockbox shall be determined by the Chief of the
Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 26-63)
   (D)   Information to be maintained in lockbox. A loose-leaf notebook(s)
containing the following information, tabbed and indexed, shall be maintained
in the lockbox:
      (1)   An overall plan or drawing of the plant, facility, or site,
identifying the location of:
         (a)   Each structure;
         (b)   All fire protection equipment and clothing;
         (c)   Natural gas/fuel shut-offs;
         (d)   Drains to sanitary sewers;
         (e)   Inside and outside telephones;
         (f)   Shelter areas;
         (g)   Access areas; and
         (h)   Stormwater drainage.
      (2)   A complete list of all hazardous substances and their locations,
and the average daily amount of each on site; and
      (3)   A plant/facility emergency action plan, including the system to be
used to notify emergency responders, and for evacuation.
(Prior Code, § 26-64) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 UNREGISTERED; ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      JUNK, ABANDONED, AND NON-OPERABLE VEHICLES. Any motor vehicle, regardless
of motive power, which is of a type which is or ever has been subject to the
motor vehicle registration requirements of the state and which:
         (a)   Does not bear a currently valid registration plate; and
         (b)   Is not in a garage or other building designed for the storage of
motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 62-101)
   (B)   Outside storage prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be an unlawful nuisance for any person to store or allow
to be stored, or remain in the open upon public property within the town, any
junk, abandoned, or non-operable vehicle for a period of more than five days,
or upon private property for a period of more than 15 days.
      (2)   Vehicles stored on or in lawfully operated junk or salvage yards,
and vehicles owned, held, or stored by persons, firms, or corporations in
connection with lawfully operated automotive sales or repair businesses, shall
be exempt from the provisions of this section, provided that any such vehicles
are not parked, maintained, or stored on the public streets, roadways,
alleyways, or other public property.
(Prior Code, § 62-102)
   (C)   Impound release charge.
      (1)   The town and the Police Department have determined that there is an
actual average administrative cost to release vehicles which have been
impounded by the Police Department. Such average costs include manpower,
supplies, legal, and telephone. Such costs total an average of $100 per
release.
      (2)   An impound release charge of $100 per vehicle shall be paid by an
automobile owner or his or her agent, to the town as an average processing cost
to release said vehicle from impound.
(Prior Code, § 62-104)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   For the first offense of §
93.07, the fine shall be $25; for the second offense, the fine shall be $50;
for all subsequent offenses, the fine shall be $100. Each subsequent day of
violation shall be considered a separate and chargeable offense, at a fine of
$100 per day.
(Prior Code, § 26-37)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Failure of the owner or occupant of any real estate within
the town to comply with §
93.25 within ten days of written notice thereof shall be subject to punishment
as provided in §
10.99. Violations under §
93.25 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
         (b)   In the event that the town incurs expenses associated with the
performance of maintenance pursuant to §
93.25(B), such expenses shall be reimbursed by the owner or occupant of the
property within 30 days after providing said owner or occupant a written
itemization of such expenses. In the event these expenses are not reimbursed
within such period, the amount thereof shall be entered as a lien against such
real estate, and may be entered upon the tax duplicate of such real estate and
collected as other property taxes; or such lien may be foreclosed against the
premises as in the case of mortgages. The reimbursement and liens provided for
herein shall be in addition to any civil penalties imposed.
(Prior Code, § 70-34)
      (2)   Violations of §
93.25(D) shall result in a fine of $100 per occurrence. Each day that a
violation of §
93.25(D) shall exist shall constitute a separate occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 70-35)
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of §
93.26 may be enforced by the Building Commissioner, the Chief of the Fire
Department, and/or the Police Department.
      (2)   Enforcement of the provisions of §
93.26 may be by injunctive relief, the withdrawal of occupancy permits, the
termination of utility services, or any other means permitted by this code of
ordinances and the statutes of the state.
      (3)   In addition to or in lieu of any other enforcement means employed,
violations of §
93.26 shall be subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99. Section
93.26 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 26-65)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the Town Marshal shall find a non-operable vehicle as
defined in §
93.27, a written notice shall be issued to the owner(s) of such vehicle, and/or
the owner of the private property on which it is stored, requiring the removal
thereof within five days if on public property, and 15 days if on private
property.
      (2)   In the event the owner(s) of the vehicle cannot be ascertained, it
shall be considered adequate and sufficient for the written notice to be placed
upon or attached to the vehicle. In the event the owner(s) of the private
property on which the vehicle is stored cannot be ascertained, it shall be
considered adequate and sufficient for the written notice to be placed upon or
attached to the residence, or delivered to any occupant thereof.
      (3)   In the event the vehicle is not removed as provided in §
93.27, the owner(s) of the vehicle, and/or the owner(s) of the property on
which it is stored, shall be issued a citation for an ordinance violation and
subjected to the civil penalties provided herein. In addition, in the event the
vehicle is on public property, the Town Marshal shall cause said vehicle to be
towed or otherwise removed, and the costs and expenses of such removal and
storage thereof shall be assumed by the owner(s) of the vehicle and/or the
owner(s) of the private property from which it was removed, in addition to and
separate from any civil penalties imposed.
      (4)   The Town Marshal and deputy marshals shall be specifically entitled
to enter upon private property for the purpose of investigating and inspecting
vehicles which are stored in plain sight thereon, and to issue the notices and
orders provided for in this section.
      (5)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §
93.27, or who interferes in any way with the lawful enforcement of any of the
provisions hereof, shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $25 for
each vehicle in violation and for each day said violation continues after the
date for removal specified in the written notice. Section
93.27 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 62-103)
(Ord. 2012-09-18, passed 9-18-2012; Ord. 2014-11-18, passed 11-18-2014; Ord.
2018-09-18-01, passed 9-18-2018)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Park Rules and Regulations
   
94.01   Applicability
   
94.02   Closing times
   
94.03   Glass containers
   
94.04   Alcoholic beverages
   
94.05   Motor vehicles
   
94.06   Trash disposal
   
94.07   Animals
   
94.08   Loitering; destruction of property
Boards of Parks and Recreation
   
94.20   Creation; jurisdiction
   
94.21   Membership; appointment, term, and compensation
   
94.22   Gifts and donations
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Animals, see
Ch. 90
Recreational vehicles, see
Ch. 71
PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 94.01 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all areas and property within the
jurisdiction of the town’s Board of Parks and Recreation, and to all persons
using, or otherwise present, thereon.
(Prior Code, § 42-31)
§ 94.02 CLOSING TIMES.
   All parks and recreational areas located within the town and subject to the
jurisdiction of the Board of Parks and Recreation shall be closed between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., and persons using or otherwise present
thereon shall be considered to be trespassers.
(Prior Code, § 42-32)
§ 94.03 GLASS CONTAINERS.
   No glass containers of any kind shall be permitted within the public parks
or recreational areas at any time.
(Prior Code, § 42-33) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   The use or possession of alcoholic beverages within the public parks and
recreational areas shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 42-34) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Motorized vehicles of any kind are strictly prohibited on public park and
recreational area grounds, except upon any improved roadways or paved parking
areas that may exist therein.
(Prior Code, § 42-35) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 TRASH DISPOSAL.
   Littering shall be prohibited in public parks and recreational areas, and
all trash, rubbish, or garbage shall be removed or properly disposed of and
placed in trash receptacles.
(Prior Code, § 42-36) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have dogs and/or cats on park or recreational
area property unless said animals are properly restrained and controlled.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to permit any animal to excrete on park or
recreational area property unless said excrement is immediately removed and
disposed of properly.
(Prior Code, § 42-37) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 LOITERING; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to loiter on park or
recreational area property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to vandalize, or otherwise damage
or destroy, property owned or under the control of the Board of Parks and
Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 42-38) Penalty, see §
94.99
BOARDS OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 94.20 CREATION; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Parks and Recreation in accordance
with the statutes of the state.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall have control and jurisdiction
over all public parks, playgrounds, public recreation centers, and all other
places, buildings, and equipment which may have been or may be dedicated for
the purpose of public recreation and given over to its control.
(Prior Code, § 42-61)
§ 94.21 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT, TERM, AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board shall consist of four resident freeholders appointed
by the Council. In addition, one or two additional members may be appointed,
those being a member of the governing body of the school corporation serving ex
officio selected by that body, or a person designated by the governing body of
the school corporation and have rights to vote, or a member of the governing
body of the library district serving ex officio selected by that body.
      (2)   No members may serve on the Council. All members must be qualified
by an interest in and knowledge of the social and educational value of
recreation.
      (3)   The members serve with a fixed compensation based upon the current
salary ordinance. The members shall be appointed for four-year terms from
January 1 of the year of their appointment or until their successors are
appointed.
   (B)   The Council hereby specifically authorizes the Parks and Recreation
Board to create an Advisory Council pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3-
17.
(Prior Code, § 42-62) (Ord. 2014-09-16C, passed 9-16-2014; Ord. 2023-12-19-1,
passed 12-19-2023)
§ 94.22 GIFTS AND DONATIONS.
   (A)   Acceptance authorized. The Parks and Recreation Board is authorized to
accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for park and recreation purposes.
   (B)   Approval. No gift or transfer of public property to the Parks and
Recreation Board shall be made without the approval of said Parks and
Recreation Board.
   (C)   Restrictions on expenditures.
      (1)   Any gift, donation, subsidy, or grant of money shall be deposited
in a special, non-reverting fund to be known as the “Hebron Parks and
Recreation Board Gift Fund,” which shall be available for the expenditure by
the Parks and Recreation Board for park and recreation purposes, or such
purposes as may have been specified by the grantor of the gift, donation, or
subsidy.
      (2)   Disbursements from the Hebron Parks and Recreation Board Gift Fund
shall be made only upon receipt of vouchers signed by the President and
Secretary of the Parks and Recreation Board.
(Prior Code, § 42-64)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.08 shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $25 for each
violation. Sections
94.01 through
94.08 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 42-39)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   CONTRACTOR LICENSING
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES
Section
   
110.01   Persons subject to license
   
110.02   Applications; contents
   
110.03   Forms
   
110.04   Acknowledgment of receipt
   
110.05   Fees; when due; disposition
   
110.06   Business license fee
   
110.07   Termination of licenses; notice
   
110.08   Buildings and premises; town regulations
   
110.09   Issuance of unlawful activities prohibited
   
110.10   Change of location
   
110.11   Nuisances
   
110.12   Revocation, suspension; grounds
   
110.13   Violations and procedure
   
110.14   Posting required
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, by themselves or through an agent, employee, or partner,
holds themselves further as being engaged in a business or occupation; or
solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to
perform any part of such business or occupation in the town shall be subject to
the licensing requirements herein.
   (B)   (1)   In order to qualify as a business, the person must be in active
business continually for a 90-day period.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to a home occupation business as
defined by the state. PERSON includes any type of legal entity.
(Prior Code, § 14-61) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATIONS; CONTENTS.
   Applications for all licenses required by an ordinance of the town shall be
made in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer in the absence of provisions to the
contrary. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the license
desired, the location to be used, the fee to be paid, and such additional
information as may be needed for the proper guidance of the town officials in
the issuance of the license applied for and for emergency matters. The license
application fee is non-refundable.
(Prior Code, § 14-62) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 110.03 FORMS.
   Forms for all licenses required by ordinances of the town, and application
therefor, shall be prepared and kept on file by Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 14-63) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 110.04 ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RECEIPT.
   Upon the receipt of an application for a business license, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall review such application and forward it to the current ordinance
officer for verification that the business is not under current violations of
ordinances. A reply must be forwarded to the applicant within 15 business days
of approval or denial and a reason for such denial.
(Prior Code, § 14-64) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 110.05 FEES; WHEN DUE; DISPOSITION.
   In the absence of any provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses shall be paid in advance at the time the application is made therefor
to the Clerk-Treasurer. Except as otherwise provided, all license fees shall
become a part of the town’s Redevelopment Commission.
(Prior Code, § 14-65) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 110.06 BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   Any person maintaining, operating, or conducting any business or
establishment, or doing business, or engaging in any activity or occupation in
the town shall pay an initial license fee of $50, with a yearly renewal fee of
$25. Except as otherwise provided, all fees shall become a part of the town’s
Redevelopment Commission.
(Prior Code, § 14-66) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 110.07 TERMINATION OF LICENSES; NOTICE.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall terminate on June 30 each year, where no
provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The Redevelopment Commission shall mail to all licensees of the town a
statement at the time of the expiration of the license held by the licensee. If
such license is an annual license, such statement shall be mailed three weeks
prior to the date of such expiration and a notice of delinquency 30 days after
renewal was due; provided, a failure to send out such notice, or the failure of
the licensee to receive it, shall not excuse the licensee from a failure to
secure a new license or renewal thereof, nor shall it be a defense in action
for operation without a license.
(Prior Code, § 14-67) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 110.08 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES; TOWN REGULATIONS.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business if the premises
and building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with the
requirements of the town.
(Prior Code, § 14-68) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 ISSUANCE OF UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of
any act which is in violation or which would involve a violation of any
ordinance of the town or law, rule, or regulation of the state or of the United
States.
(Prior Code, § 14-69) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any business or occupation for which a license has been
issued may be changed, provided the 30 days’ prior notice thereof is given to
the Clerk-Treasurer and the new location meets all of the requirements for the
issuance of the original license.
(Prior Code, § 14-70) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 110.11 NUISANCES.
   No business, whether or not a license has been issued therefor, shall be so
conducted or operated as to be a nuisance in fact.
(Prior Code, § 14-71) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION; GROUNDS.
   Any license required by town ordinances may be suspended or revoked by the
Council for any one or more of the following reasons:
   (A)   Violation by the licensee of an ordinance of the town;
   (B)   Violation by the licensee of any law, rule, or regulation of the state
or the United States, or any department or division thereof; or
   (C)   Misrepresentation or falsification of statements in the application
for license.
(Prior Code, § 14-72) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 110.13 VIOLATIONS AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice to correct violations. In the event the enforcement officer
designated by the Council had reason to believe that a violation as described
in §
110.10 by the licensee can be corrected, the enforcement officer shall serve
written notice upon the licensee setting forth the violations, and the licensee
shall have not less than five nor more than 30 days, as set by the enforcement
officer, to correct the violation and to submit evidence of the correction to
the enforcement officer.
   (B)   The Council’s authority. The Council may suspend or revoke any license
for one or more of the reasons set forth in §
110.10.
   (C)   Hearings. Before the suspension or revocation of any license, the
Council or the code enforcement officer shall give written notice to the
licensee of the violation and set forth therein a date for hearing for the
purpose of suspending or revoking such license. Such hearing for suspension or
revocation shall be held not less than 30 days after the personal service of or
the mailing of the written notice; however, in the event the Council believes
that immediate and irreparable harm or damage to person or property may occur
by reason of the violation, the hearing may be held after 24 hours following
the personal service of the written notice.
   (D)   Effect of revocation or suspension. The suspension or revocation shall
be supplementary to any other proceedings provided by this section and shall
not stay any other enforcement provisions of this section.
   (E)   Re-application restricted. Any licensee whose license has been revoked
shall have the right to reapply for a license upon application payment of all
fees.
(Prior Code, § 14-73) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 110.14 POSTING REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a business or activity in the
town for which a license has been issued to keep his or her license posted in a
prominent place on the premises used for such business or activity at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 14-74) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to register a business under §
110.01 is a town ordinance violation and is punishable by a fine of not more
than $500 which will go to the town to be used towards any and all fees
incurred while enforcing §
110.01.
(Prior Code, § 14-61) (Ord. 2005-08-16A, passed 8-16-2005)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
Solicitors
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Exclusions
   
111.03   Duration of license
   
111.04   Application for license; issuance
   
111.05   Solicitation of donations; roadblocks
   
111.99   Penalty
SOLICITORS
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLICITOR. Any person or entity engaged in the solicitation of donations on
public or private property, door-to-door selling, or selling within an open
area or street, of any product, service, or promotion, whether on a for-profit
or not-for-profit basis.
(Prior Code, § 14-31) (Ord. 2002-05-21A, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 2004-07-20,
passed 7-20-2004)
§ 111.02 EXCLUSIONS.
   The following persons or entities are specifically excluded from the
definition of SOLICITOR and are not required to obtain a solicitor’s license:
   (A)   The town;
   (B)   Any school or sanctioned school student organization within the town;
   (C)   Any police, fire, or civil service organization organized for the
benefit of the town or its residents;
   (D)   Any other person or entity who specifically requests exemption by the
Council; and
   (E)   Those persons or entities who are engaging in religious proselytizing,
anonymous political speech, and/or the distribution of handbills.
(Prior Code, § 14-32) (Ord. 2002-05-21A, passed 5-21-2002; Ord.2002-06-18B,
passed 6-18-2002; Ord. 2004-07-20, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 111.03 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   A solicitor’s license shall remain in effect for 30 days, except for
licenses for the solicitation of donations, which shall remain in effect for
one day.
(Prior Code, § 14-33) (Ord. 2002-05-21A, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 2004-07-20,
passed 7-20-2004)
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
111.02(D), those persons or entities who desire a solicitor’s license must
present themselves to the Police Department and complete an application. A fee
of $10 shall be paid to the town for issuance of the license.
   (B)   In the case of a person or entity desiring a special exception under §
111.02(D), a request must be made to the Council, which shall be heard at the
regularly scheduled public meeting.
(Prior Code, § 14-34) (Ord. 2002-05-21A, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 2004-07-20,
passed 7-20-2004)
§ 111.05 SOLICITATION OF DONATIONS; ROADBLOCKS.
   (A)   Licenses for the solicitation of donations, including roadblocks,
shall be valid from the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m., on the date for which
the license is issued.
   (B)   Permits shall not be permitted for these activities on Sundays due to
the increased traffic and congestion.
   (C)   These solicitations shall be conducted in an orderly, safe manner and
may be revoked by any member of the Police Department in the event the
solicitation is not being conducted in an orderly and safe manner.
(Prior Code, § 14-35) (Ord. 2004-07-20, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   For the first offense, any person or entity in violation of §§
111.01 through
111.05 shall be ordered by the Police Department to immediately cease all
activities and a written warning shall be issued.
      (2)   For the second offense, there shall be imposed a fine of $100, plus
any applicable costs and attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 14-36) (Ord. 2002-05-21A, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 2004-07-20,
passed 7-20-2004)
CHAPTER 112: CONTRACTOR LICENSING
Section
   
112.01   Purpose and intent; definitions
   
112.02   Board responsibilities
   
112.03   License applications and fees
   
112.04   Exceptions; exclusions
   
112.05   Enforcement
   
112.06   Identification
   
112.07   Compliance
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate contractors to ensure
compliance with ordinances and rules and regulations governing business in the
town to improve the health, safety, convenience, and welfare of the citizens.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. The town’s Board of Zoning Appeals.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector for the town.
      BUSINESS ENTITY. An individual, sole proprietorship, firm, partnership,
limited partnership, corporation, or any other form of unincorporated
enterprise.
      CONTRACTORS.
         (a)   Any person, except a licensed architect or registered
professional engineer, who in any capacity, other than as the employee of
another for wages as the sole compensation, undertakes to construct, repair,
move, wreck, or demolish any structure.
         (b)   The term includes a subcontractor or specialty contractor, but
does not include a person who only furnishes materials or supplies.
      LICENSE. A certificate issued by the Building Inspector established
pursuant to this section which confers upon the holder the privilege to perform
as a contractor or specialty contractor in the town.
      MAINTENANCE PERSON. An individual who is employed on a permanent basis to
keep the premises of a business establishment in good repair.
      SPECIALTY CONTRACTORS. A contractor who specializes in a particular
branch of building construction industry and who shall be licensed in his or
her specialty pursuant to the terms of this chapter in order to work in the
specific field in which he or she is licensed.
(Prior Code, § 14-91) (Ord. 2014-09-16B, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 112.02 BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Board shall have general charge and responsibility of appeals to
this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty and policy of the Board to:
      (1)   Adopt and promulgate rules and regulations for conduct of its
business consistent with the guidelines and provisions of this chapter and do
all things necessary to carry out and enforce the provisions of this chapter;
and
      (2)   (a)   The Secretary shall call all meetings of the Board as
directed by the Board’s Chairperson. Sufficient notice shall be given to permit
each Board member to attend all meetings.
         (b)   Three members in attendance at Board meetings shall constitute a
quorum sufficient for the transaction of the Board’s business. A majority vote
of all members in attendance shall be required to bind the Board.
(Prior Code, § 14-92) (Ord. 2014-09-16B, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 112.03 LICENSE APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   License application.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any business entity
which conducts business in the town as a contractor or specialty contractor is
required to be licensed by the town. Any business entity which satisfies all
requirements of this section shall be issued a license.
      (2)   A business entity attempting to obtain a license as a contractor or
specialty contractor shall file a written application on forms supplied by the
town and shall include exhibits, material, and information required and
specified on said forms. All forms are approved at the discretion of the town
and may be updated from time-to-time with the approval of the town.
      (3)   The application shall be filed on behalf of the business entity and
shall also contain the name of, and be signed by, the individual who manages
said business. Where a license is issued, authority to transact business there
as a contractor or specialty contractor shall be limited to one individual
named in the application and the license as the license holder. In the event
the license holder leaves the business entity, the license becomes null and
void.
      (4)   All applications shall also be signed by the individual designated
as the license holder.
      (5)   Every application shall be accompanied by two recent passport type
photographs of the license holder, size two inches by two inches, and by a
certificate of commercial general liability insurance in an amount not less
than $1,000,000/$2,000,000 and listing the town as an additional insured.
      (6)   Upon the filing of an application, the Building Inspector shall
investigate the information contained therein and, if any such information is
found untrue, may refuse to license the applicant.
      (7)   (a)   A license issued by the Building Inspector is valid until the
contractor to whom the license was issued fails to perform any work under that
license for a period of five years, in which case the license expires.
         (b)   If a contractor allows his or her license to expire, he or she
shall be required to apply for a new license, as if he or she were making an
initial application.
      (8)   The fee for licenses shall be as follows.
         (a)   An application and processing fee of $75 shall accompany an
application for any contractor or specialty contractor license.
         (b)   The license renewal fee is $50.
      (9)   All fees assessed and collected pursuant to this section shall be
paid to the town.
      (10)   All construction work in progress on the effective date of the
original passage of the ordinance codified herein shall be allowed to be
completed without the issuance of a license.
   (B)   Annual license renewal. All licenses expire at 12:00 a.m., December 31
of each year unless the licensee or license holder renews the license prior to
expiration and pursuant to the terms of this section.
   (C)   Violation and enforcement procedures.
      (1)   All licensees and holders shall abide by all applicable codes,
ordinances, and laws of the town and the state, or any rules or regulations
promulgated pursuant thereto.
      (2)   The Board may, upon its own motion, and shall, upon the verified
written complaint setting forth specifically the wrongful action or acts
complained of, investigate any action, acts, or business transaction of a
license holder or licensee and shall have the power to suspend a licensee, or
revoke a license, if after due proceedings as herein provided, it shall find
the license holder or licensee to be guilty of any of the following prohibited
acts or conduct:
         (a)   Willful and deliberate disregard of any applicable building and
zoning construction codes, ordinances, and laws of the town and the state, or
any regulations promulgated pursuant thereto;
         (b)   Knowingly aiding or abetting any person or entity to evade the
provisions of this section or regulations promulgated pursuant thereto;
         (c)   Knowingly combining or conspiring with a person or entity with
the intent to evade the provisions of this section or rules and regulations
thereto;
         (d)   Acting in the capacity of the licensed contractor or specialty
contractor by falsely using a license issued in the name of another licensee or
license holder;
         (e)   Paying compensation in money or other valuable consideration to
any person or entity other than a licensed contractor for rendering services or
doing any act required by this section to be performed by a licensed
contractor;
         (f)   A violation of any provision of this section by an agent or
employee of any licensed contractor approved by the contractor. For the purpose
of the preceding sentence, a course of conduct shown to have been consistently
followed by an agent or employee shall constitute prima facie evidence of
approval by the contractor;
         (g)   Any business entity or its designated agent or representative
aggrieved by any action by the Board is suspending, revoking, or failing to
issue or renew a license may seek judicial review by the circuit court of the
county;
         (h)   Whenever any contractor’s license issued under the provisions of
this section is revoked by the Board, the Board shall deliver the bond of the
offending licensee to the Town Attorney who shall institute proceedings to
forfeit the bond; and/or
         (i)   Whenever someone who’s license has been revoked applies for a
license, it shall be treated and handled as an initial application except as to
the requirement of division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 14-93) (Ord. 2014-09-16B, passed 9-16-2014; Ord. 2016-4-19B,
passed 4-19-2016)
§ 112.04 EXCEPTIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   An authorized employee of the United States, the state, the town, or
any political subdivision thereof, so long as the employee does not hold
himself or herself out for hire and is acting within the scope of his or her
employment;
   (B)   Public utilities, where construction, maintenance, and development
work performed by their own employees and incidental to their business;
   (C)   (1)   The owner and occupant, in the case of a new single-family
dwelling unit, when said owner or occupant is himself or herself alone
constructing, installing, altering, remodeling, repairing, or building the
residential unit he or she occupies or will occupy. The term OWNER AND OCCUPANT
is intended to mean that the individual or individuals who enter into this
endeavor will reside in the single-family dwelling unit they construct,
install, alter, remodel, repair, or build. This exclusion shall only be
available after the owner and occupant files an application under §
112.03(A), the same as any business entity; and
      (2)   This exclusion shall not be available more than one time every
seven years when applied to construction of a new residence. No license may be
issued to an owner or occupant under this exclusion, but all other requirements
undertakes §
112.03(A), including a unified license bond, proper insurance, and oral
interview are required. If any owner or occupant determines he, she, or they
cannot alone, himself, herself, or themselves, complete his, her, or their
construction, installation, alteration, remodel, or repair, any additional
business entity hired to complete any portion of the construction,
installation, alteration, remodel, or repair must hold a valid contractor’s
license as described under this chapter.
   (D)   Any construction, alteration, improvement, or repair of improvements
located on any site and project where state and federal law supersedes this
section; and/or
   (E)   Any individual who is employed or acts as a MAINTENANCE PERSON, as
that term is defined in this chapter, at his or her place of employment.
(Prior Code, § 14-94) (Ord. 2014-09-16B, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 112.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the power of a political subdivision to
regulate the quality and the character of work performed by contractors through
the enforcement of building codes and inspections within its boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 14-95) (Ord. 2014-09-16B, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 112.06 IDENTIFICATION.
   Every original license shall be openly displayed at the licensee’s principal
business office and a copy of every contractor’s or specialty contractor’s
license(s) shall be visibly posted and easily accessible for inspection on each
and every job site where he, she, or they work.
(Prior Code, § 14-96) (Ord. 2014-09-16B, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 112.07 COMPLIANCE.
   If an applicant, licensee, or license holder willfully and voluntarily fails
to comply with any reasonable request or directive of the Board, Building
Inspector, or his or her appointed representative, such failure may, at the
reasonable discretion of the Board, be sufficient grounds for denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license.
(Prior Code, § 14-97) (Ord. 2014-09-16B, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   When any business entity, or a duly authorized agent or representative
of such, acts as a contractor without first obtaining a license, or any
individual or entity continues to act as a contractor after his or her license
has been suspended or revoked, such entity shall be guilty or violating §
112.03 and be subject to an immediate fine or penalty in the amount of $500.
This fine or penalty is in addition to any penalty imposed as a judgment from
any litigation initiated to bring the violator into compliance. Also, the
business entity, or a duly authorized agent or representative of such shall
immediately initiate an application to become a contractor or subcontractor
under the provisions of §
112.03 and cease all work until such time as his, her, or their license is
issued.
   (B)   If such business entity, or a duly authorized agent of representative
of such, refuses to comply with the procedure stated in division (A) above or
allows more than 30 days to pass without paying the immediate fine of $500 and
making application to become a duly licensed contractor under these provisions,
the Town Attorney or his or her duly appointed representative may, in the name
of the town, bring an action in the County Circuit or Superior Courts, for
mandatory and injunctive relief in the enforcement of, and to secure compliance
with any order or orders issued by the Board, or a duly appointed
representative of the Building Inspector and any such action may be joined with
an action to recover the penalties provided for in this section.
   (C)   Any person or entity violating any provision of §
112.03 or refusing a lawful order issued by the Board or Building Inspector, or
duly appointed representative of the Building Inspector, shall be fined an
additional penalty, over and above the $500, identified as the immediate fine
or penalty provided in this section in any sum not less than $100 and not more
than $300 in addition to any court costs or other fines incurred. Each day of
such unlawful activity shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 14-93) (Ord. 2014-09-16B, passed 9-16-2014; Ord. 2016-4-19B,
passed 4-19-2016)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against Property and Persons
   
130.01   Buildings and lots; exterior maintenance
   
130.02   Weapons
Curfew for Minors
   
130.15   Curfew established; hours, defenses
   
130.16   Adult responsibility
Noise
   
130.30   Definitions and interpretations
   
130.31   Prohibited noise
   
130.32   Exemptions
   
130.33   Temporary permits
   
130.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY AND PERSONS
§ 130.01 BUILDINGS AND LOTS; EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of every structure situated within the town shall maintain the
structure and the premises on which it is situated, hereinafter the premises,
in a safe and sanitary condition in accordance with the following standards.
   (A)   The premises shall be kept free of high grass and weeds, rubbish,
garbage, and any material that creates a health, safety, or fire hazard. Grass
and weeds shall be kept below six inches. All dead or broken trees, tree limbs,
or shrubbery shall be cut and removed from the premises. All trees, shrubbery,
and hedges shall be kept trimmed so as not to obstruct the view of motorists
and pedestrians along abutting streets and sidewalks. Abutting sidewalks shall
be kept free of grass and weeds, rubbish, and any other material that creates a
health or safety hazard.
   (B)   No owner shall accumulate or permit the accumulation of junk, trash,
and debris, boxes, lumber, scrap metal, tires, or any other materials in such a
manner that may provide rodent or vermin harborage on the premises. Materials
stored by the owner or permitted to be stored by the owner shall be stacked
safely and elevated above the ground.
   (C)   No person shall deposit or place any refuse or other hazardous
materials in or adjacent to any road, street, alley, or other public places
unless it is in proper containers for collection.
   (D)   All open, uncovered, or insecurely covered cisterns, cellars, wells,
pits, excavations, or vaults situated on any premises shall be properly secured
or filled to grade with appropriate fill material.
   (E)   (1)   Every swimming or wading pool not currently in use shall be
properly secured and maintained in sound condition and good repair. Every
swimming pool shall be enclosed by a chain-link ornamental or solid fence or
wall and gates to restrict access.
      (2)   Water shall be treated chemically so as to prevent the growth of
algae or other organic matter, or the pool shall be drained.
   (F)   Any swimming pool or wading pool not maintained in sound condition and
good repair shall be removed, and the excavation shall be filled to grade with
appropriate fill material.
   (G)   No structure, vehicle, receptacle, yard, lot, premises, or part
thereof shall be constructed, made, used, maintained, or operated in any manner
causing or producing any health or safety hazard or permitted to become, or to
become conducive to, rodent, vermin, or mosquito harborage. No unlicensed motor
vehicle shall be constructed, made, used, maintained, stored, or operated
outside of an enclosed structure for a period of more than 30 days.
   (H)   Every foundation, roof, floor, exterior wall, and ceiling shall be
safe to use and capable of supporting the loads that normal use may cause to be
placed thereon and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair. Every
outside stair or step shall be maintained in sound condition and good repair.
   (I)   Every porch, stoop, deck, veranda, balcony, and walk shall be
maintained in sound condition and fit for its purpose.
   (J)   Every foundation, roof, exterior wall, door, skylight, window, and
door shall be weather- tight, and shall be kept in sound condition and good
repair.
   (K)   Every window, exterior door, hatchway, or similar device shall be
maintained in sound condition and good repair.
      (1)   Every exterior door that is capable of being opened and other
potential means of ingress into a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be equipped
with hardware or other device for locking and shall be secured so as to prevent
unauthorized entry.
      (2)   Every unprotected window which has missing or broken glass shall be
replaced and maintained in good repair.
   (L)   (1)   All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-resistant woods,
shall be protected from the elements and decay by paint or other preservation
material.
      (2)   All wood surfaces shall be cleaned and freed of flaking, loose or
defective surfacing materials prior to painting, or applying other preservation
material.
   (M)   Every masonry wall, foundation, and chimney shall be kept in sound,
functional, weather- tight condition and in good repair.
   (N)   Every owner shall be responsible for the extermination of insects,
rodents, and other vermin in or about the premises.
   (O)   (1)   Every structure and the premises on which it is located shall be
maintained in a rodent- and vermin-free condition.
      (2)   All openings in the exterior walls, foundations, doors, windows,
sewers, pipes, drains, basements, ground and first floors, and roofs shall be
closed and made rodent- and vermin-proof in an approved manner.
   (P)   Gutters, leaders, and downspouts shall be maintained in good working
condition so as to provide proper drainage of stormwater.
   (Q)   Every premises shall be graded for proper drainage, drained free of
standing water, and maintained in a clean, sanitary, and safe condition.
   (R)   All fences shall be maintained in sound condition and good repair.
   (S)   (1)   Accessory structures on the premises of a dwelling shall be
structurally sound and be maintained in good repair and free of insects,
rodents, and vermin.
      (2)   The exterior of such structures shall be made weather resistant
through the use of decay-resistant materials, paint, or other preservatives.
   (T)   Every door, window, or other potential means of ingress of an
accessory structure shall be secured so as to prevent unauthorized entry.
   (U)   No person shall apply a lead-based paint to any surface of a building
or part thereof or to any other structure located on the premises.
   (V)   Every owner shall maintain in good repair all asbestos-containing
materials on the premises. All asbestos-containing materials shall remain free
from defects such as holes, cracks, tears, and/or looseness that may allow the
release of asbestos fibers into the environment.
(Prior Code, § 38-1) (Ord. 2011-12-20, passed 12-20-2011; Ord. 2012-04-17A,
passed 4-17-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Discharge any shotgun, rifle, revolver, pistol, or firearms of any
kind, or air gun, target gun, or BB gun, or propel an arrow with a bow, upon or
across any street, alley, or other public property within the town;
   (B)   Discharge any firearms of any kind, or air gun, target gun, or BB gun,
or propel an arrow with a bow, upon any private property within the town in
such manner that the object projected or propelled thereby shall travel beyond
the property lines or limits of such property except with the written prior
approval of the owner of the property onto which the object is projected or
propelled; or
   (C)   Discharge any firearms of any kind, or air gun, target gun, BB gun, or
propel an arrow with a bow, upon any private property within the town if the
person is not the owner or lessee of such private property, or expressly
authorized thereby.
(Prior Code, § 38-31) Penalty, see §
130.99
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.15 CURFEW ESTABLISHED; HOURS, DEFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place within the town after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m., local
prevailing time, on any day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to be in a
public place within the town:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
   (C)   It is a defense to a violation under this section that the child:
      (1)   Was emancipated:
         (a)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
         (b)   By virtue of having married; or
         (c)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction; at
the time that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct.
      (2)   Engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
         (a)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian;
         (b)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent,
guardian, or custodian; or
         (c)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
            1.   Lawful employment;
            2.   School sanctioned activity;
            3.   A religious event;
            4.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
            5.   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Art.
1, § 3 of the Constitution of the state, or both, such as freedom of speech and
the right of assembly; or
            6.   An activity conducted by a nonprofit entity that provides
recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision of one or
more adults.
      (3)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside the town to another location outside the town.
(Prior Code, § 38-61) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 ADULT RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or custodian of a child to
knowingly permit the violation of §
130.15.
(Prior Code, § 38-62) Penalty, see §
130.99
NOISE
§ 130.30 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Hebron, Indiana.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability partnership, limited liability company, association, corporation, or
other entity.
      PREMISES. A tract of land including its buildings and structures.
      SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any apparatus used for the amplification of
sounds from any radio, tape player, cassette player, compact disc player,
loudspeaker, sound amplifier, alarm, or other sound-generating device,
including any apparatus for the amplification of the human voice.
      TOWN. The Town of Hebron, Indiana.
      UNREASONABLE OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. Sound that is of a volume, frequency, or
pattern that prevents, disrupts, injures, or endangers the health, safety,
welfare, prosperity, comfort, or repose of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensitivities within the corporate boundaries of the town, given the time of
day or environment in which the sound is made.
      VEHICLE. A device in, upon, or by which a person or property is, or may
be, transported or moved.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, the singular shall include the plural
and the plural shall include the singular, unless the context requires
otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 38-82) (Ord. 2023-03-21-2, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 130.31 PROHIBITED NOISE.
   (A)   Unreasonable or excessive noise. Except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter, it shall be a violation of this section for any person to cause or
make any unreasonable or excessive noise or to allow any unreasonable or
excessive noise to be caused or made in or on any real property or personal
property within the town limits occupied or controlled by that person.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. In addition to the general noise prohibition in
division (A) above, the following acts within the town limits are violations of
this section.
      (1)   Motor vehicle noises.
         (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on a public street,
road, alley, highway, park, or other public property in which the engine,
muffler, exhaust, and/or other noise control equipment have been altered,
removed, or maintained in such disrepair as to generate an unreasonable or
excessive noise.
         (b)   No person shall operate or use any motor vehicle in such a
manner to create unreasonable or excessive noise from squealing of tires or
grating, grinding, rattling, or other noises from disrepair.
         (c)   No person operating a motor vehicle containing an engine-brake
system shall apply the engine brakes.
         (d)   Except as used for warning purposes, no person shall use,
operate, or sound any horn or other signaling device on any motor vehicle on a
public street, road, alley, highway, park, or other public property for any
unreasonable period of time.
         (e)   No person shall play, use, or operate or allow to be played,
used, or operated in or on any motor vehicle any sound amplification system at
a volume that is louder than necessary for the convenient hearing of persons
who are inside the motor vehicle within which such device is played, used, or
operated.
      (2)   Noises from premises.
         (a)   No person shall play, use, or operate or allow to be played,
used, or operated on a premises any sound amplification system in such a manner
that the sound produced causes unreasonable or excessive noise heard beyond the
boundaries of the premises by a person with normal hearing.
         (b)   No person shall keep any animal, including but not limited to
dogs and birds, on a premises that causes unreasonable or excessive noise
clearly audible to a person from any place other than the premises from which
the animal is located.
      (3)   Machine noises.
         (a)   No person shall engage in the erection, excavation, demolition,
alteration, or repair of any building or real estate causing unreasonable or
excessive noise between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
         (b)   No person shall engage in the operation, alteration, or repair
of any pile driver, hydraulic shovel or grader, pneumatic hammer, hoist,
blower, fan, or other equipment causing unreasonable or excessive noise between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 38-83) (Ord. 2023-03-21-2, passed 3-21-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.32 EXEMPTIONS.
   Noises from the following uses and activities shall be exempt from the
prohibitions in §
130.31:
   (A)   Non-amplified crowd noises resulting from legal activities between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.;
   (B)   Any authorized emergency, fire, law enforcement, or governmental
vehicle when responding to an emergency call, acting in time of emergency, or
in connection with official business;
   (C)   Emergency signaling devices, such as severe weather sirens, safety
signals, or other devices used as a warning of danger or an emergency;
   (D)   Emergency work including work necessary to restore property to a safe
condition following a public calamity or work required to protect persons or
property from an imminent exposure to danger or work by private or public
utilities when restoring utility service;
   (E)   Properly operating building alarms or vehicle alarms;
   (F)   Properly operated and licensed aircraft;
   (G)   Properly operated and licensed refuse collection vehicles operating
between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
   (H)   Any activity sponsored, permitted, or authorized by the Council, Board
of Parks and Recreation, Community School Board, or any other governmental body
having jurisdiction and control over the premises including, but not limited
to, parades, festivals, fairs, sporting events, concerts, firework displays, or
school bands;
   (I)   Legal consumer fireworks properly used during the times allowed by the
state;
   (J)   Any construction or domestic power equipment operated between 7:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m., provided that such equipment is operated with the
manufacturer’s mufflers and noise reducing equipment in use and in proper
working condition;
   (K)   Church or worship center bells sounded in conjunction with a function
or service; or
   (L)   Any other noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration
permitted by the Council in accordance with §
130.33.
(Prior Code, § 38-84) (Ord. 2023-03-21-2, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 130.33 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   Applications for a permit for temporary relief from the requirements
in this subchapter may be made in writing to the Council. Any permit granted by
the Council under this section shall contain all conditions upon which said
permit has been granted and shall specify a reasonable time that the permit
shall be effective.
   (B)   The Council may prescribe any reasonable conditions or requirements it
deems necessary to minimize adverse effects upon the community or the
surrounding neighborhood.
   (C)   The Council may grant a permit as applied for only if it is found
that:
      (1)   Additional time is reasonably necessary for the applicant to alter
or modify the activity or operation to comply with this section;
      (2)   The activity, operation, or noise source will be of a temporary
duration, and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with this section;
      (3)   No other reasonable alternative is available to the applicant; and/
or
      (4)   The noise source as permitted will not violate recognized safety
standards.
(Prior Code, § 38-85) (Ord. 2023-03-21-2, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
130.02 shall be subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99. Section
130.02 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 38-31)
   (C)   Violations of §§
130.15 and
130.16 shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $25 for the first
such violation in a calendar year; and $50 for all subsequent violations within
a calendar year. Sections
130.15 and
130.16 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 38-63)
   (D)   (1)   Sections
130.30 through
130.33 may be enforced by the authorized agents of the Council or by a law
enforcement agency.
      (2)   Any person charged with violating the provisions of §§
130.30 through
130.33 may, in the discretion of the enforcement officer, be issued an official
warning. If an official warning is issued, it shall be considered as affording
the violator one opportunity to comply with the provisions of §§
130.30 through
130.33. If any person fails to comply with the provisions of §§
130.30 through
130.33, the section violation shall be enforced in accordance with I.C. 34-28-
5-1 in a manner similar to that of infractions with complaint and summons
described in I.C. 9-30-3-6 issued by the Police Department or other enforcement
agency.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
130.30 through
130.33 shall be subject to an initial civil penalty of $50. Each day such
violation continues or is committed shall constitute a separate offense. A
second violation in any 12-month period is subject to a civil penalty of $100.
Subsequent violations in any 12-month period are subject to a civil penalty of
$500.
      (4)   Upon written notices of a violation by the same person for the same
offense three times within a consecutive 12-month period, when such noise is
created by the same noise emitter or the same type of noise emitter, the noise
creating device may be ordered by the enforcement officer to cease being used
or operated until it can be brought into compliance with §§
130.30 through
130.33.
      (5)   For the purposes of division (D), the VIOLATOR shall be the person
or persons who created, caused to be created, permitted to be created, or
otherwise generated any source of noise in violation of §§
130.30 through
130.33; the person or persons in possession of a sound amplification system
played, used, or operated in violation of §§
130.30 through
130.33; or the person in control of a motor vehicle operating in violation of
§§
130.30 through
130.33.
(Prior Code, § 38-86)
(Ord. 2023-03-21-2, passed 3-21-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
154.   STORMWATER PROJECTS
      
155.   EROSION CONTROL
      
156.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Knox Boxes
   
150.02   House numbering
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.15   Definitions
   
150.16   Adoption of state law
   
150.17   Declaration of nuisance
   
150.18   Administration and enforcement
   
150.19   Standards for work
   
150.20   Violations
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 KNOX BOXES.
   (A)   Knox Box required for new commercial buildings. All new commercial
buildings shall have installed a Knox Box, of a UL type and size approved by
the Chief of the Fire Department, in a location specified by the Chief of the
Fire Department prior to the issuance of the permit of occupancy.
   (B)   Knox Box required for existing commercial buildings with improvements.
All existing commercial buildings constructing improvements that require Plan
Commission approval shall have installed a Knox Box, of a UL type and size
approved by the Chief of the Fire Department, in a location specified by the
Chief of the Fire Department prior to the issuance of the construction permit.
   (C)   Knox Box required for existing commercial buildings. All existing
commercial buildings equipped with automatic fire detection and/or suppression
systems shall have installed a Knox Box, of a UL type and size approved by the
Chief of the Fire Department, in a location specified by the Chief of the Fire
Department within six months of the effective date of the ordinance codified
herein.
   (D)   Knox Box required for multi-family residential structures. All multi-
family residential structures that have restricted access through locked doors
and have a common corridor for access to the living units shall have installed
a Knox Box, of a UL type and size approved by the Chief of the Fire Department,
in a location specified by the Chief of the Fire Department within six months
of the effective date of the ordinance codified herein.
   (E)   Knox Box contents. All Knox Boxes shall contain labeled keys, easily
identified in the field to provide access into the property and/or building,
and to any locked areas within the said building as the Chief of the Fire
Department may direct.
   (F)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
       KNOX BOX. A secure rapid entry system that is designed to be used by
Fire Department personnel in the event of an emergency to gain entry into a
structure by using the enclosed owner provided key(s). This box is usually
mounted on the exterior of the building in a location that is specified by the
Chief of the Fire Department. All boxes shall be UL (Underwriters Laboratories)
certified and approved by the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 10-1) (Ord. 2013-11-19A, passed 11-19-2013)
§ 150.02 HOUSE NUMBERING.
   The owner, lessee, and/or occupant of each residential and multi-family
residential dwelling and each principal commercial building within the town
shall post, affix, or display on such dwelling or building, in a manner as to
be clearly visible from the street which it faces, the numerals or written
numbers which constitute the street address thereof as assigned by the town.
The numerals or written numbers shall be a minimum of three inches in height,
and be constructed and colored so as to be clearly visible.
(Prior Code, § 54-91) Penalty, see §
150.99
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. The definition herein, set forth in I.C. 36-
7-9-2, is hereby incorporated by reference as if copied in full.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-
7-9-4 is hereby incorporated by reference in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-31) (Ord. 2001-09-19, passed 9-18-2001)
§ 150.16 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby incorporated by reference in this
section. All proceedings within the town for the inspection, repair, and
removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by the provisions of this
subchapter. In the event the provisions of this subchapter conflict with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, then the provisions of the state
statutes shall control.
(Prior Code, § 10-32) (Ord. 2001-09-19, passed 9-18-2001)
§ 150.17 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined after
inspection by the Building Inspector to be unsafe as defined in §
150.15 are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
(Prior Code, § 10-33) (Ord. 2001-09-19, passed 9-18-2001)
§ 150.18 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall be authorized to administer and to
proceed under the provisions of this subchapter in ordering the repair and
removal of any buildings found to be unsafe as specified herein or as specified
hereafter.
   (B)   Whenever a hearing is required subject to the state code, the Plan
Commission shall be the hearing authority with all the authorities provided in
the code under I.C. 36-7-9 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10-34) (Ord. 2001-09-19, passed 9-18-2001)
§ 150.19 STANDARDS FOR WORK.
   (A)   All work for the reconstruction, repair, or demolition of buildings
and other structures shall be performed in good workmanlike manner according to
the accepted standards and practices in the trade.
   (B)   The provisions of the building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3,
adopted as rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, shall
be considered standard and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this
subchapter or orders issued pursuant to this section by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 10-35) (Ord. 2001-09-19, passed 9-18-2001)
§ 150.20 VIOLATIONS.
   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee, or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or any order issued by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 10-37) (Ord. 2001-09-19, passed 9-18-2001) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any property or building owner failing to comply with, or in violation
of the terms of §
150.01 after notice from the Chief of the Fire Department, shall be subject to
a fine of $100.
(Prior Code, § 10-1)
   (C)   Any person, firm, company, corporation, or organization violating the
provisions of §
150.02 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $10, and each applicable building
which is not brought into compliance with §
150.02 shall constitute a separate offense, and each day the violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense. Section
150.02 may be enforced by the Building Commissioner and/or the Police
Department. Section
150.02 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 54-92)
(Ord. 2013-11-19A, passed 11-19-2013)
CHAPTER 151: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
   
151.01   Applicability
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Special exception requirements
   
151.04   Improvement location permit
   
151.05   Design standards
   
151.06   Fees
   
151.07   Enforcement
   
151.08   Non-conforming facilities
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to the construction, placement, and modification of
all communication facilities, as hereinafter defined, within the town. No such
communication facility shall be constructed, erected, placed, modified, or
altered within the town unless a special exception and a building permit has
first been obtained as required in this chapter, and such communications
facility otherwise complies with the terms and provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 58-31) (Ord. 01-05-15, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. A device used in communications which transmits or receives radio
or television signals, or any other spectrum-based transmissions/receptions;
but expressly excluding an antenna for the receipt of television signals which
does not exceed 35 feet in height, inclusive of the height of the building or
structure to which it is attached. ANTENNA TYPES include, but are not limited
to, omni-directional “whip” antenna, directional “panel” antenna, and ancillary
antenna.
   COLLOCATION. A single site where commercial wireless communications service
equipment from more than one provider are located.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. FCC licensed commercial wireless
communications services that are marketed to the general public, including
cellular telephone, personal communications services (PSC), specialized
mobilized radio (SMR) paging, and similar services.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A land use facility, including without limitation
communications towers and antennas.
   COMMUNICATIONS TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas. The term includes
radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, cellular telephone
and commercial wireless communications service towers, alternative tower
structures, and the like. Tower types include, but are not limited to, guyed
towers, wooden poles, lattice towers, and monopolies.
   DESIGNED FAIL AREA. The area surrounding a communications tower in which the
tower could fall, should it fail as structurally designed. The DESIGNED FAIL
AREA is quantified in terms of linear distance from the base of the
communications tower to the perimeter of the designed fail area. The DESIGNED
FAIL AREA shall be certified by a state licensed structural engineer.
   GUYED TOWER. A communications tower anchored by cables or wires typically
ranging in height from 100 to 400 feet, which can accommodate a variety of
users and antennas.
   LATTICE TOWER. A free-standing communications tower typically ranging in
height from 60 to 400 feet which can accommodate a variety of users. These
towers generally have three or four support steel legs and hold a variety of
antennas.
   MONOPOLE TOWER. A free-standing communications tower typically ranging in
height from 25 to 200 feet, which can accommodate multiple users. These towers
consist of a single pole, approximately three feet in diameter at the base and
narrowing to roughly one and one-half feet at the top, and hold a variety of
antennas.
   SUBDIVISION. A division of a tract of land into two or more lots for the
purpose of residential development. The plat of SUBDIVISION must be recorded in
the office of the County Recorder.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the ground level to the highest
point of a communications tower, or attached antenna or similar device,
including attached communications facilities.
   TOWER SETBACK. The horizontal distance from the base of a communications
tower to an abutting property line and/or proposed right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 58-32) (Ord. 01-05-15, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 151.03 SPECIAL EXCEPTION REQUIREMENTS.
   No communications facility may be located in any zoning district in the town
unless a special exception has been granted in accordance with the provisions
of §§
156.035 through
156.042 and in accordance with the provisions of this section. In addition to
any criteria set forth in §§
156.035 through
156.042, any application for a special exception for a communications facility
shall be subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Location of communications facilities. A communications facility may
be located in any zoning district upon receipt of a special exception as set
forth herein, provided, however, that no communications facility may be located
in a Residential Mobile Home (RMH) District, and no communications facility may
be located within the boundaries of any recorded residential subdivision.
   (B)   Application for special exception. An application for a special
exception for a communications facility may be made by the property owner, the
owner of the communications facility, or a duly authorized agent of the
property owner or the owner of the communications facility. All applications
shall be initially filed with the Building Inspector. Each application shall
include the following information and/or materials:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Name, address, and telephone number of the property owner or owner
of the communications facility, as applicable, if not the applicant;
      (3)   Name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the intended
lessee(s) or user(s) of the communications facility, if different from the
owner of the communications facility;
      (4)   Name, address, and telephone number of the contractor who will
erect, alter, construct, or relocate the communications facility, if not the
applicant;
      (5)   A report from a state licensed professional engineer, which:
         (a)   Describes the height of the communications facility or tower
height and the structural design of the communications facility and all
footings or anchors. Cross-sections and elevations of communications towers
shall be shown on a scaled drawing;
         (b)   Describes the height above grade for all potential mounting
positions for co-located antennas and the minimum separation distances between
antennas;
         (c)   Describes the communications facility’s capacity, including the
number and type of antennas that it can accommodate and their effective range;
         (d)   Includes a copy of the stress sheets and calculations showing
the structure’s deadload and wind pressure capacities;
         (e)   Includes a detailed site plan of the parcel or lot, showing the
position of the communications tower and/or communications facility in relation
to existing building(s) or structures, easements, rights-of-way, and applicable
setback lines. Detailed site plans should include adjoining parcels and lots,
if located within a distance equal to 120% of the tower height; and
         (f)   Includes a description of any right-of-way cuts and/or utility
service to be installed.
      (6)   Written consent or other proof of authorization of the owner of the
building, structure, or land to which or on which the communications facility
is to be erected;
      (7)   Written documentation or other proof that the communications
facility will be in service within one month of completion of construction;
      (8)   Copies of any necessary easements;
      (9)   A written commitment by the applicant to notify the town not less
than 60 days prior to any changes in ownership of the communications facility
or ownership of the property in questions;
      (10)   Written proof of adequate liability insurance covering the
communications facility owner and operator, together with a written commitment
to file proof of such adequate liability insurance with the town on an annual
basis;
      (11)   For all communications towers for commercial wireless
communications service, a letter of intent committing the communications tower
owner and his or her successors to allow the shared use of the tower, if an
additional user agrees in writing to meet reasonable terms and conditions for
shared use; and
      (12)   A plan delineating any existing and proposed and/or anticipated
communications facilities within the town for the purpose of promoting long-
range planning to minimize the number of communications facilities and their
potential adverse impacts on the unincorporated county.
   (C)   Review by Technical Advisory Committee. Upon receipt of an application
for a special exception for a communications facility, the Building Inspector
shall forward the application to the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) for its
review. The TAC shall review the application for compliance with the provisions
of this section and shall make recommendations to the Board of Zoning Appeals
within 30 days after filing of the application with the Building Inspector. TAC
review hereunder shall be prerequisite to review by the Board of Zoning Appeals
pursuant to §
156.041, and for purposes of such section, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
deemed to have received the application upon receipt of TAC’s recommendations
or expiration of the 30-day period hereunder for TAC review, whichever occurs
first.
   (D)   Criteria for approval. In addition to any criteria set forth in §
156.041, the Board of Zoning Appeals may not grant approval of a special
exception for a communications facility unless the following criteria have been
satisfied:
      (1)   No new communications tower for a commercial wireless
communications service may be approved unless the Board of Zoning Appeals finds
that the telecommunication equipment planned for the proposed communications
tower cannot be accommodated on an existing or approved communications tower or
building within a two-mile search radius of the proposed communications tower
due to one or more of the following reasons:
         (a)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved communications tower or building, as documented by a
qualified and licensed professional engineer within the state, and the existing
or approved communications tower cannot be reinforced, modified, or replaced to
accommodate planned or equivalent equipment at a reasonable cost;
         (b)   The planned equipment would cause interference, materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the
communications tower or building, as documented by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer in the state, and the interference cannot be prevented at
a reasonable cost;
         (c)   Existing or approved communications towers and buildings within
the search radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height
necessary to function reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer within the state; or
         (d)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved
communications tower or building.
      (2)   The applicant has submitted all required application materials as
set forth in division (B) above, including without limitation, the plan of
existing and proposed communications facilities and the written commitment to
notify the town of changes in ownership of the communications facility and/or
land;
      (3)   The proposed communications facility meets the design criteria
specified in §
151.05;
      (4)   The applicant has furnished evidence of appropriate licensure and
approval by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for the construction
and operation of the communications facility, and communications tower approval
by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), as applicable; and
      (5)   As a condition of the grant of the special exception, the applicant
shall be required to send written notice, by certified mail, to all commercial
wireless communications service providers then licensed by the FCC to provide
service within the town of the availability of the applicant’s communications
facility for collocation for future equipment or services. The applicant shall
furnish proof of such notification prior to issuance of an improvement location
permit, in accordance with §
151.04(E).
(Prior Code, § 58-33) (Ord. 01-05-15, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 151.04 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   No communications facility may be constructed, erected, altered, or modified
in any zoning district in the town unless an improvement location permit has
been issued authorizing the same in accordance with the provisions of §§
156.070 through
156.075, and in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. In addition
to any requirements set forth in §§
156.070 through
156.075, no improvement location permit may be issued for the construction,
erection, alteration, or modification of any communications facility unless the
requirements of this section have been satisfied.
   (A)   Application. An application for an improvement location permit for a
communications facility shall include the information required for the special
exception application, as specified in §
151.03(B).
   (B)   Permit fees. All applicable improvement location permit fees shall
have been paid prior to issuance.
   (C)   Evidence of special exception. The applicant shall file evidence
demonstrating that a special exception has been duly granted pursuant to the
provisions of §
151.03, or demonstrating the communication facility’s compliance with the
provisions of §
151.03(A).
   (D)   FCC and FAA approval. The applicant shall furnish evidence of
appropriate licensure and approval by the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC) for the construction and tower approval by the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA), as applicable.
   (E)   Notification of other providers. The applicant for an improvement
location permit for the construction or erection of a new communications
facility shall file proof of delivery of the written notice required in §
151.03(D)(5).
   (F)   Compliance with design standards. The proposed communications facility
shall meet the design criteria specified in §
151.05.
   (G)   Site plan review. Applications for an improvement location permit for
alteration or modification of an existing communications facility shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission for site plan approval prior to issuance of an
improvement location permit. Upon receipt of an application for an improvement
location permit for alteration and modification of an existing communications
facility, the Building Inspector shall submit the application to the TAC. The
TAC shall review the application for compliance with provisions of this
section, and shall make its recommendation to the Plan Commission within 30
days after filing of the application with the Building Inspector. The Plan
Commission shall then review the application and site plan for compliance with
the provisions of this section and shall either approve or deny the site plan
within 30 days after receipt of the TAC’s recommendations. No improvement
location permit for alteration or modification of an existing communications
facility may be issued without Plan Commission approval of the application and
site plan hereunder.
   (H)   Antennas mounted on roofs and walls. Notwithstanding the provisions of
§
151.03 or division (G) above, the installation of antennas for commercial
wireless communications service on existing roofs and walls may be approved by
the Building Inspector, provided that:
      (1)   The requirements of divisions (A) through (F) above are satisfied;
and
      (2)   The applicant submits a report prepared by a qualified state
licensed professional engineer, indicating the suitability of the antenna(s),
and specifying the proposed method of affixing the antenna to the structure.
Complete details of all fixtures and couplings, and the precise point of
attachment, shall be indicated.
   (I)   Issuance. Except as otherwise stated in division (G) above, an
improvement location permit shall be issued within 30 days of the filing of the
completed application and satisfaction of the criteria specified in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 58-34) (Ord. 01-05-15, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 151.05 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Any communications facility constructed, erected, altered, or modified in
any zoning district in the town shall comply with the following design
standards.
   (A)   Accommodation of multiple users. Any proposed communications tower for
commercial wireless communications service shall be designed structurally,
electrically, and in all respects to accommodate both the applicant’s antennas
and comparable antennas for at least one additional user, if the communications
tower is over 60 feet in height but less than 100 feet in height, or for at
least two additional users if the communications tower is over 100 feet in
height.
   (B)   Tower and antenna design requirements. Proposed or modified
communications towers and antennas shall meet the following design
requirements:
      (1)   Communications towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into
the natural surrounding environment through the use of color and camouflaging
architectural treatment, except in instances where the color is dictated by
federal and state authorities, such as the FAA; and
      (2)   Communications towers for commercial wireless communications
service shall be of a monopole design, unless the Board of Zoning Appeals
determines that an alternative design would better blend in with the
surrounding environment.
   (C)   Minimum tower setbacks. The minimum tower setback requirements for
communication facilities shall be as follows.
      (1)   All communications facilities shall, at minimum, meet the setback
requirements of the underlying zoning districts, provided, however, that
communications tower erected or constructed in Industrial zoning districts may
encroach up to ten feet into the rear setback area, if the adjoining parcel is
also zoned Industrial.
      (2)   Communications towers shall be set back from any planned right-of-
way, according to this code of ordinances, a minimum distance equal to one-half
the tower height, including all antennas and attachments.
      (3)   Guyed towers and lattice towers shall be set back on all sides a
minimum distance equal to the designed fail area, plus 10% of the tower height.
      (4)   Monopole towers shall be set back on all sides a minimum distance
equal to the designed fail area plus 10% of the tower height.
      (5)   Communications towers shall not be located between a principal
structure and a public street.
      (6)   Communications facilities shall be set back from the boundaries of
any recorded residential subdivision a minimum distance equal to the tower
height plus 10% of the tower height.
      (7)   A communications tower’s setback may be reduced or its location in
relation to a public street varied at the sole discretion of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, to allow for the integration of the communications tower into
an existing or proposed structure, such as a church steeple, light standard,
power line support device, or similar structure.
   (D)   Accessory utility buildings. All utility buildings and structures
accessory to a communications tower or other communications facility shall be
architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding environment, and
shall meet the minimum setback requirements of the underlying zoning district.
   (E)   Screening. Ground-mounted equipment shall be screened from view by
suitable vegetation and/or by nearby buildings except where a design non-
vegetative screening better reflects and complements the architectural
character of the surrounding neighborhood.
   (F)   Security fence. Communications towers or other communications
facilities and all ancillary buildings shall be protected by a seven-foot
security fence erected within the visually screened area.
   (G)   Maximum tower height.
      (1)   Communication towers shall not exceed 200 feet in height in the
following zoning districts: RR, R1, R2, R3, C1, C2, C3, C4 and I1. Towers may
exceed 200 feet in the following zoning districts, as long as adjoining
properties are zoned the same: AG, I2, and I3.
      (2)   Roof-mounted antennas may exceed the maximum building height in the
applicable zoning district by no more than 20 feet. Antennas located on utility
poles or other structures not covered above may not exceed 110% of the existing
pole height.
   (H)   Lighting. Communications towers and other communications facilities
shall not be illuminated by artificial means and shall not display strobe
lights, except for such lighting as is specifically required by the FAA or
other federal or state authority for a particular communications tower.
   (I)   Signs and advertising. The use of any portion of a communications
tower for the posting of any signs or advertisements of any kind, other than
warning or equipment information signs, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 58-35) (Ord. 01-05-15, passed 5-15-2001) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 FEES.
   The applicable fee(s) for applications for a special exception, an
improvement location permit, and/or TAC review under this section shall be
specified in
Chapter 156 for commercial uses and site review.
(Prior Code, § 58-36) (Ord. 01-05-15, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 151.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to any applicable enforcement rights or remedies available under
the this code of ordinances, or applicable state or federal law, the following
all apply.
   (A)   Inspections. All communications facilities for which an improvement
location permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the Building
Inspector or his or her designee. If an easement is required for location of a
communications facility on the property, the easement shall be staked by a
state licensed and registered land surveyor so as to provide proof that the
communications facility has been constructed within the easement. Footing
inspections may be required by the Building Inspector for all communications
facilities having footings. All communications facilities containing electrical
wiring shall be subject to the provisions of the National Electrical Code.
   (B)   Right of entry. In order to determine if any communications facility
is unlawfully constructed, erected, altered, or modified in compliance with the
provisions of this section and applicable building codes and ordinances of the
town, the Building Inspector or his or her designee may enter onto the property
to investigate the matter, and may order that appropriate action is taken to
bring such communications facility into compliance.
   (C)   Removal. The Building Inspector shall have the authority to order the
correction or removal of any communications facility that is constructed,
erected, altered, or modified in violation of this section and/or that
constitutes an unlawful non-conforming use under this section.
(Prior Code, § 58-37) (Ord. 01-05-15, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 151.08 NON-CONFORMING FACILITIES.
   Communications facilities in existence on the date of the adoption of this
section which do not conform or comply with the provisions of this chapter are
subject to the following.
   (A)   Legal non-conforming communications facility. Any communications
facility located within the unincorporated areas of the town on the date of the
adoption of this section, which does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter, shall be deemed a legal non-conforming use, provided that the
following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The communications facility:
         (a)   Was constructed pursuant to a validly issued improvement
location permit/building permit if one was required under applicable law at the
time of construction; and
         (b)   Was constructed under, or, as of the date of the adoption of
this section, existed pursuant to, a validly issued variance or special
exception.
      (2)   As of the date of the adoption of this section, the communications
facility had legal, non-conforming use status.
   (B)   Unlawful communications facilities. A communications facility as
specified in divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) below is an unlawful communications
facility.
      (1)   Any non-conforming communications facility which does not meet the
criteria for a legal non-conforming use as specified in division (A) above is
an unlawful communications facility.
      (2)   A communications facility meeting the criteria for a legal non-
conforming use under division (A) above shall immediately lose its legal non-
conforming use status if:
         (a)   The communications facility, because of improper installation or
maintenance, becomes or constitutes a threat to public health or safety, if the
condition is not remedied within 60 days after written notice from the Building
Inspector, or his or her designee, as applicable;
         (b)   The communications facility is demolished or damaged (e.g.,
because of fire, weather conditions, and the like) to the extent of 50% or more
of its value;
         (c)   The permit, variance, or special exception under which the
communications facility was permitted expires or lapses, or any condition of
such permit, variance, or special exception expires, lapses, or ceases to
exist; or
         (d)   The communications facility is structurally altered so as to
prolong its expected life, unless such alteration is made in compliance with
the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Obligation of owners to maintain facility. Nothing in this section
shall relieve the owner or user of a communications facility that is a legal
non-conforming use, or the owner of the property on which the legal non-
conforming communications facility is located, from any obligation to maintain
the communications facility in a safe condition and in good repair.
(Prior Code, § 58-38) (Ord. 01-05-15, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined in
an amount no less than $50 nor more than $250.
(Prior Code, § 58-39) (Ord. 01-05-15, passed 5-15-2001)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Discharge of water
   
152.02   Sidewalk assistance program
   
152.03   Synthetic cannabinoids; sale
Driveways
   
152.15   Introduction
   
152.16   Definitions
   
152.17   General requirements
   
152.18   Application for permit
   
152.19   Temporary permits
   
152.20   Classes of entrances
   
152.21   Specifications
   
152.22   Residential, private property, and the like; entrances
   
152.23   Multi-residential, commercial, and the like; entrances
   
152.24   Gasoline service stations; entrances
   
152.25   Car washes and drive-ins; entrances
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DISCHARGE OF WATER.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
owning, renting, or in any way using any property in the town to discharge or
cause to be discharged any water from sump pumps, downspouts, hoses, and the
like onto any public street, alley, or other public way or place in the town.
   (B)   Notice of violation. In the event of any such water discharge onto any
public street, alley, or other public way or place in the town, the person
responsible therefor shall be notified to immediately cease and desist from
discharging said water onto the streets, alleys, public ways, or places in the
town and an ordinance violation ticket shall be issued to said person
responsible.
(Prior Code, § 54-1) (Ord. 1997-2-18, passed 2-18-1997) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 SIDEWALK ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The property owner will need to secure an improvement location permit
for the proposed sidewalk from the town, but all fees for said permit will be
waived.
   (B)   The town will remove the existing sidewalk for the property owner and
dispose of the materials.
   (C)   The town will then lend the appropriate concrete forms to the property
owner(s) for five days. Upon the return of the forms in good condition within
said five days and the signing and approval of an appropriate claim form,
including paid receipts for the cost of the sidewalk, the town will reimburse
the property owner for 10% of the cost of replacement up to a maximum of $100.
(Prior Code, § 54-2) (Ord. 2004-08-24, passed 8-24-2004)
§ 152.03 SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS; SALE.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”), such as K2/
Spice, shall not be sold, marketed, or offered for sale within the town.
Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”) may not be burned,
incinerated, or ignited in any public place or on any property owned, leased,
or controlled by the town.
   (B)   Persons or entities violating provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction, as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-4.
(Prior Code, § 54-3)
DRIVEWAYS
§ 152.15 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The purpose of this division is to establish standards, criteria, and
guidelines subject to variation, based on engineering judgment, so as to
provide a basis for the review and approval of all requests for access to
public streets and thoroughfares.
   (B)   It is the scope of this division to cover in detail as many conditions
as possible regarding various types of commercial, industrial, school, church,
and residential access to public highways regardless of the type of access
control exercised. The intent is to consider all types of access within the
jurisdiction of the town.
   (C)   The efficiency and safety of a roadway facility with limited access
control, or without access control, depends greatly upon the character of
roadside interferences. Most of these interferences originate in vehicular
movements to or from residential, commercial, and industrial developments along
the facility.
   (D)   Although the town recognizes the rights of abutting property owners to
access, it is necessary for the town to establish controls regarding the
number, location, and geometrics of access points. This is necessary to
maintain sound operational characteristics of the facility, and to provide
adequate safety features for the expeditious movement of people and goods.
   (E)   Highway interference resulting from excessive roadside development and
uncontrolled driveway connections precludes the orderly and safe movement of
traffic in and out of properties, and therefore results in poor levels of
service, increased hazards, and early obsolescence of the highway.
   (F)   The necessary regulations and geometrics of access points are very
closely associated with traffic volumes, operations, rights-of-way, land use,
and zoning control.
   (G)   (1)   It is understood that commercial and industrial growth within an
expanding urban area is inevitable. Therefore, it is necessary to provide
access to these concerns in accordance with a well-developed plan, as
compatible as possible with the adjacent highway facilities.
      (2)   Traffic congestion adversely affects conditions for transacting
business, produces accidents, interferes with the effective operations of fire
and police services, and in general reduces the enjoyment of many phases of
urban life and activity.
(Prior Code, § 54-51)
§ 152.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS CONTROL (FULL). The access is controlled to such a degree that no
access will be permitted directly to the roadway from abutting property. The
physical means of access shall be limited to interchange ramps, approaches, or
other facilities located on the public right-of-way at points designated by the
town for specific entrance to or exit from the facility by the general public.
   ACCESS CONTROL (LIMITED). Those facilities where the right of the owners or
occupants of abutting land or other persons to access light, air, or view in
connection with a highway, street, or roadway is fully or partially controlled
by the town.
   ACCESS CONTROL (NORMAL). The rights of abutting property owners of access to
the public roadway are recognized. On these facilities, entrances to the
roadway will be permitted for abutting property, providing such access points
comply with the standards and regulations established in this subchapter.
   ACCESS CONTROL (PARTIAL).
      (1)   The access is controlled to such a degree that public access will
be restricted to interchange ramps, at-grade intersections, approaches, or
other facilities located on public right-of-way. Private driveways may be
permitted at locations designated by the town solely for residential or
agricultural purposes, when so agreed or stipulated with the property owner,
when access rights are required. Any permit for such an entrance will show
limiting use.
      (2)   No direct access for commercial or industrial uses will be
permitted. All other access for abutting property will be as indicated for full
access control facilities.
      (3)   Median opening for U-turns for public use may be provided in
accordance with established criteria.
   APPROACH PAVEMENT. A portion of the roadway adjoining the traveled way,
which includes tapers for recovery lanes, deceleration, speed change, turning
movements, or other purposes supplemental to the through traffic movement. The
auxiliary lane may be in existence or proposed for construction by the
applicant.
   CHANNELIZATION. The separation of conflicting traffic movements into
definite paths of travel by use of payment markings, raised islands, or other
suitable means to facilitate the safe and orderly movement of traffic.
   COMMERCIAL. The purchase, sale, or any other transaction involving the
handling or disposition (other than that included in the term INDUSTRIAL) of
any article, substance, or commodity for profit or a livelihood including and
in addition to the operation of automobile or trailer courts, motels, public
garages, office buildings, professional offices, outdoor advertising signs and
structures, public stables, recreational and amusement enterprises conducted
for profit, and shops for the sale of personal goods or services either
directly or by agreement to furnish, but not including dumps or junk yards.
   DESIGN SPEED. A speed determined by design and correlated to the physical
features of a highway which influences vehicle operation. It is the maximum
safe speed that can be maintained over a specific section of highway when the
conditions are at optimum.
   DESIGN VOLUME. A volume representing the expected traffic use of the
facility, stated as an hourly volume.
   DIVIDED HIGHWAY. A highway with separate roadways for traffic heading in
opposite directions.
   DRIVEWAY. Every way or place not in the right-of-way of any public highway
and which is used for vehicular traffic.
   ENTRANCE. The connecting line of the driveway and the approach.
   HIGHWAY, STREET, or ROADWAY. A general term denoting a public way for the
purpose of vehicular travel, including the entire area within the right-of-way.
   INDUSTRIAL. The manufacture, fabrication, processing, reduction, or
destruction of any article, substance, or commodity, or any other treatment
thereof in such a manner as to change the form, character, or appearance
thereof, including storage elevators, truck storage, yard warehouses, wholesale
storage, and other similar types of enterprises.
   MEDIAN. The portion of a divided highway separating the traveled ways for
traffic heading in opposite directions.
   MEDIAN LANE. A speed change lane within the median to accommodate left-
turning vehicles.
   TRAVELED WAY. The portion of the roadway used for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of the shoulders and auxiliary lanes.
   ZONING. The division of the town into districts, and the regulation within
those districts of types of structures or land uses allowed by the town’s
Master Plan.
(Prior Code, § 54-52)
§ 152.17 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person, firm, corporation, or development shall
construct any entrance, driveway, or approach connecting with any public
roadway, nor shall any curb along such roadway be cut or removed, without a
written permit from the town, and then only in accordance with the regulations
and requirements contained in this section.
   (B)   Establishment of requirements. The town shall determine and establish
such requirements and restrictions for such private entrances, driveways, and
approaches as may be necessary to provide for drainage and preservation of the
roadway, and for the safety and convenience of traffic on the roadway.
   (C)   Setbacks. Regulations and requirements to facilitate storage may
include the minimum distance that gasoline pumps, buildings, and other
structures to which such private entrances, driveways, or approaches make a
connection may be placed next to the right-of-way line of the roadway or next
to the outside edge of sidewalks along these roadways.
   (D)   Supervision of work; payment of costs. All work on such private
entrances, driveways, and approaches shall be done under the supervision and to
the satisfaction of the town, and the entire expense of constructing such
private entrances, driveways, and approaches shall be borne by the permittee.
   (E)   Authority to require bond or cash deposit. The town is authorized to
require that a sufficient bond or cash deposit be given prior to the issuance
of a permit to ensure the carrying out of the terms under which the permit was
granted, and that such a bond or cash deposit shall be returned when the
requirements of the permit have been met.
   (F)   Maintenance. The owners or occupants of the abutting property shall
maintain, and keep in a state of repair, all such private entrances, driveways,
and approaches, and same shall be constructed and maintained in such a manner
as not to obstruct or interfere with the roadway or the traffic thereon. Any
ditch or drainageway shall not be impeded in performing the function for which
it was constructed.
   (G)   Roadway improvement or construction.
      (1)   Whenever a roadway is constructed or reconstructed, the
construction of all public roadway approaches, and existing private approaches,
together with the required drainage structures, shall be included as part of
the improvement of the roadway.
      (2)   The town may require that the location of existing drives be
changed in the interests of public safety, and such changes shall be made under
the direction of the town.
      (3)   Upon completion of the roadway, the owners or occupants of
adjoining lands shall keep in repair all private approaches or driveways from
the highway.
   (H)   New uses. When there is a change in the type of business and/or land
use of any existing property, regardless of how slight or minor, a new
application for a permit must be submitted to the town for approval. The town
may require changes to existing driveways as a result of such changes in use.
   (I)   Permit prerequisite to issuance of improvement location permit or
building permit. The person, firm, corporation, or developer must obtain a
driveway permit before an improvement location permit or building permit can be
issued.
   (J)   Violations. Any person, firm, corporation, or developer violating any
of the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the
amount as set forth herein.
   (K)   Relocation or replacement of improvements. The expense of relocating
or replacing any and all improvements within the right-of-way shall be the sole
responsibility of the permittee.
   (L)   Vehicles standing in roadway prohibited. In no case shall vehicles be
allowed to stand on any portion of the roadway. It shall be the owner’s
responsibility to close the entrance to the facility before such a condition
occurs.
   (M)   Alteration. No entrance shall be altered, relocated, or remodeled
without the permission of the town.
   (N)   Time limit for completing construction. Construction of entrances and
approaches shall be completed within one year of the issuance of a permit. If
such construction is not completed within said time, an application for a new
permit must be made.
   (O)   Angle. The angle of any drive or approach shall be 90 degrees unless
otherwise approved by the town.
   (P)   Loading docks. When access is requested to a loading dock, there must
be sufficient distance between the dock and the sidewalk or right-of-way to
prevent encroachment while parking or maneuvering.
   (Q)   Performance bond. A performance bond shall be posted to insure
compliance with the terms of the permit at the discretion of the Public Works
Department or the town’s Building Commissioner.
   (R)   Liability insurance. Proof of liability insurance must be furnished to
the town.
   (S)   Right of town to remove or barricade. The town reserves the right to
remove or barricade any non-conforming access installations.
(Prior Code, § 54-53) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Drawings required. All applications for permits under this division
shall be accompanied by clear drawings. One drawing must accompany each
application form.
   (B)   Information to be shown on drawings. Information to be shown on the
drawings shall include a plot plan drawn to scale of the entire tract of land
as recorded in the office of the County Recorder. The drawings must also
include properly dimensioned indications of the proposed improvements, their
location, and intended use. The plot plan or additional detailed plans drawn to
scale must also depict the following:
      (1)   Property lines;
      (2)   Rights-of-way lines and width;
      (3)   Nearest intersecting roads, streets, or railroads on either side of
the proposed driveway;
      (4)   Existing width and type of road surface;
      (5)   Necessary and existing pipe, tile, or other drains, stating size
and kind;
      (6)   Existing utilities;
      (7)   Proposed and existing driveways and approaches;
      (8)   Distance from right-of-way lines to existing and proposed
structures, including gasoline pumps, signs, barriers, landscaping, and the
like;
      (9)   Proposed type of surface and width of driveways;
      (10)   Proposed type of surface and width of approaches;
      (11)   Proposed type of surface, length, and width of recovery and
deceleration lanes, if required;
      (12)   Proposed radii;
      (13)   Proposed treatment of right-of-way areas adjacent to and between
approaches;
      (14)   Proposed rate of slope or grade of approaches and driveways; and
      (15)   Proposed internal parking details.
   (C)   Class III and Class IV. Class III and Class IV entrance permit
applications shall include a plot plan with all pertinent topography drawn to
scale and properly dimensioned for at least 150 feet in each direction of the
property, and on both sides of all roadways affected, i.e., all existing
driveway entrances, approaches, and crossovers in the case of a median.
   (D)   Class I, Class II, and Class V. Class I, Class II, and Class V
entrance permit applications shall include to reasonable scale and reasonable
dimensions all adjacent properties in each direction of the property requiring
access and on both sides of all roadways, existing driveway entrances,
approaches, and, in the case of a median, the crossovers affected.
(Prior Code, § 54-54)
§ 152.19 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   The issuance of a temporary permit for the construction of access
driveways will be considered under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Existing facilities which have been designated “limited access
control highways;” or
      (2)   Existing highways with normal access control which are scheduled
for improvement.
   (B)   The temporary permit shall be submitted on a form designated by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 54-55)
§ 152.20 CLASSES OF ENTRANCES.
   All entrances from a street or highway to public or private property shall
be generally classified as follows, and a permit required accordingly.
   (A)   Residential entrance.
      (1)   Class I. A driveway by which a street with a raised curb is
connected to a one or two family residence and is used primarily by the owner
or occupant of the premises. Access is gained to a residence, garage, barn, or
other improved property.
      (2)   Class II. A driveway by which a street without a raised curb, but
only shoulders, is connected to a one or two family residence by the owner or
occupant of the premises. Access is gained to a residence, garage, barn, or
other improved property.
   (B)   Commercial entrance.
      (1)   Class III. A driveway or driveways by which a street with a raised
curb is connected to public or private property which is multi-residential,
commercial, industrial, school, or church in nature.
      (2)   Class IV. A driveway or driveways by which a street without a
raised curb, but only shoulders, is connected to public or private property
which is multi-residential, commercial, industrial, school, or church in
nature.
   (C)   Private entrance. Class V. A driveway connecting a street with
unimproved property that is not used commercially, such as fields or vacant
lots.
(Prior Code, § 54-56)
§ 152.21 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The following general specifications shall apply to driveway entrances.
 
Class Maximum Driveway Divided Entrance Recommended Entrances Approach Pavement
      Width                             per Street            Required
I     16               No               1                     No
II    16               No               1                     No
III   30               Yes              2                     Yes*
IV    30               Yes              2                     Yes*
V     20               No               1                     No
Note:
* Approach pavement may be required as specified herein, or as otherwise
required by the town.
 
(Prior Code, § 54-57)
§ 152.22 RESIDENTIAL, PRIVATE PROPERTY, AND THE LIKE; ENTRANCES.
   The following shall apply to Class I, II, and V entrances for residential
property, private garages, and other improved and unimproved properties.
   (A)   The application shall be accompanied by a plot plan properly
dimensioned, showing all existing driveway entrances, approaches, and other
pertinent features.
   (B)   The location of driveways shall be such that no part of the radius
shall extend beyond the extension of the adjacent property line, unless a
written agreement is obtained from the adjacent property owner.
   (C)   Driveway and approach surfaces shall be of concrete, asphalt, and/or
pavers.
   (D)   All access geometries, such as entrance, location, and driveway width,
shall be in accordance with this section and current town standards.
(Prior Code, § 54-58) (Ord. 2021-04-20-3, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 152.23 MULTI-RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND THE LIKE; ENTRANCES.
   The following shall apply to Class III and IV entrances for multi-
residential, commercial, industrial, school, and church properties.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   No application for access to a public street or highway will be
considered until all facilities within the development have been agreed upon. A
completed site plan showing proposed use, improvements, and layout of parking
spaces shall be submitted to the town.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a plot plan (minimum scale:
one inch equals 50 feet), properly dimensioned, showing all existing driveway
entrances, approaches, and other pertinent planimetric and topographic features
for distance equal to the sight distance as established by current town
standards.
      (3)   All access geometries (minimum scale: one inch equals 50 feet),
such as entrance location, driveway spacing and width, deceleration, and
recovery and passing lanes, shall be in accordance with current town standards.
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the permittee to construct any
and all improvements as set forth by the permit at the time of the entrance
construction.
   (B)   Special requirements.
      (1)   Two entrances. Two entrances may be permitted with a minimum of 150
feet of frontage, based upon anticipated traffic generation, provided the
distance from any driveway approach to an adjacent property line or alleyway is
a minimum of ten feet. Minimum distance between drives shall be 20 feet.
      (2)   Divided entrance. A divided entrance may be required for major
traffic generators. The town reserves the right to permit or require a divided
entrance, based on the parking capacity of the establishment and the effect on
the traffic service of the adjacent highway. Driveways shall be operated in a
one-way pattern. The length of the median and barrier curb along the right edge
of the entrance should be of sufficient length as to preclude the internal
conflicts within the parking lot causing interference with traffic on the
roadway.
      (3)   Entrances for use by tractor-trailers. Entrances for use primarily
by tractor-trailer combinations may be permitted by the town. Wheel path
templates shall be used to determine geometric design.
      (4)   Traffic control signals. Traffic control signals, if warranted,
shall be in accordance with current standards. Installation shall be at
entrances or exits, directly to or from the development, and power shall be
furnished in compliance with the Industrial and Commercial Signal Policy, and
in accordance with the terms of the permit. Subsequent to the installation, all
traffic control signals will be operated, maintained, and be the property of
the industry or commercial establishment requesting the signal. The town shall
determine the need for signal control, the design, and the type of signal to be
installed. The town shall regulate the timing and synchronization of the
signals. A signed agreement between the town and the permittee will be
required.
      (5)   Median crossovers. On divided highways, median crossovers will not
be permitted unless the spacing is in conformance with current town standards.
   (C)   Design details.
      (1)   For establishments or developments with high turnover rates, and
limited parking area (i.e., drive-ins, restaurants, drug stores, grocery
stores, and the like), the parking spaces shall be laid out in such a manner as
to preclude entering vehicles from interfering with traffic on the roadway.
      (2)   The near edge of the driveway shall be a minimum of 50 feet, or 25%
of the frontage, whichever is greater, from the existing or future proposed
right-of-way line (extended) of the intersecting street.
      (3)   The capacity and storage requirements of the subject intersection
shall be checked by the town and based on a projection of the existing traffic
volume for a period of ten years, and if the indicated minimum dimensions are
below storage requirements, they shall be increased accordingly.
      (4)   (a)   The permittee shall be responsible for any curbing, pavement
widening, deceleration lanes, recovery lanes, islands, or drainage structures
required.
         (b)   All construction shall be of a structural design and type
acceptable to the agency responsible for the adjacent roadway.
      (5)   No part of the driveway entrance may extend beyond a line extended
perpendicularly from the roadway centerline to the point of intersection of the
property line and the right-of-way without the written permission of the
adjacent property owner.
      (6)   When the parking or driving area of a property is adjacent to a
sidewalk or alley, then a suitable non-mountable barrier must be constructed to
prevent encroachment.
(Prior Code, § 54-59)
§ 152.24 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS; ENTRANCES.
   The following shall apply to Class III and IV entrances for gasoline service
stations.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   No application for access to a public street or highway will be
considered until all facilities within the development have been agreed upon. A
completed site plan showing improvements and layout shall be submitted to the
town.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a plot plan (minimum scale:
one inch equals 50 feet), properly dimensioned, showing all existing driveway
entrances, approaches, and other pertinent planimetric and topographic features
for a distance equal to the sight distance as established by current town
standards.
      (3)   All access geometries, such as entrance location, driveway spacing
and width, deceleration, and recovery and passing lanes, shall be in accordance
with current town standards.
      (4)   No service station entrance will be permitted on any corner lot
which has a frontage of 100 feet or less.
   (B)   Special requirements.
      (1)   Two entrances. Two entrances may be permitted with a minimum of 150
feet of frontage based on the anticipated traffic generation provided the
distance from any driveway approach to an adjacent property line or alley is a
minimum of ten feet. Minimum distance between drives shall be 20 feet.
      (2)   Multiple land use complexes. Multiple land use complexes will be
considered as a single site. Service stations constructed or to be constructed
as an integral part of such a complex will not receive separate consideration
for an entrance.
      (3)   Median crossovers on divided highways. Median crossovers on divided
highways will not be permitted unless the spacing is in conformance with
current town standards.
   (C)   Design details.
      (1)   No part of the driveway entrance may extend beyond a line
perpendicular from the roadway centerline to the point of intersection of the
property line and the right-of-way without the written permission of the
adjacent property owner.
      (2)   A tangent line projected from the end of the approach curb radius
must be parallel to the centerline of the roadway.
      (3)   The permittee shall be responsible for any curbing, pavement
widening, deceleration lanes, recovery lanes, islands, or drainage structures
required. All construction shall be of a structural design and type acceptable
to the agency responsible for the adjacent roadway.
      (4)   All pump islands must be located a minimum of ten feet from the
right-of-way line, or as required by the state fire marshal.
      (5)   The near edge of the driveway shall be a minimum of 50 feet or 25%
of the frontage, whichever is greater, from the existing or future proposed
right-of-way line (extended) of the intersecting street.
      (6)   When parking or driving area of a property is adjacent to a
sidewalk or an alley, then a suitable non-mountable barrier must be constructed
to prevent encroachment.
(Prior Code, § 54-60)
§ 152.25 CAR WASHES AND DRIVE-INS; ENTRANCES.
   The following shall apply to Class III and IV entrances for car washes and
drive-in businesses.
   (1)   No application for access to a public street or highway will be
considered until all facilities within the development have been agreed upon. A
completed site plan showing improvements and layout shall be submitted to the
town.
   (2)   The application must be accompanied by a plot plan (minimum scale
being one inch equals 50 feet), properly dimensioned, showing all existing
driveway entrances, approaches, and other pertinent planimetric and topographic
features for a distance equal to the sight distance established by current town
standards.
   (3)   All access geometrics, such as entrance location, driveway spacing and
width, deceleration, and recovery and passing lanes, shall be in accordance
with current town standards.
(Prior Code, § 54-61)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision §
152.01 shall be fined not less than $25 for the first such violation, not less
than $50 for a second violation, and not less than $100 for a third violation,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 54-1)
   (C)   Any person, firm, company, corporation, or organization violating the
provisions of §§
152.15 through
152.25 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $10, and each applicable building
which is not brought into compliance with §
150.02 shall constitute a separate offense, and each day the violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense. Sections
152.15 through
152.25 may be enforced by the Building Commissioner and/or the Police
Department. Sections
152.15 through
152.25 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 54-92)
(Ord. 1997-2-18, passed 2-18-1997)
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Purpose
   
153.04   Objectives
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
153.08   Floodplain development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
153.12   Interpretation
   
153.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.25   Administrator; duties and responsibilities
   
153.26   Permit procedures
Variance Procedures
   
153.40   Designation; Appeals Board
   
153.41   Duties
   
153.42   Procedures
   
153.43   Conditions
   
153.44   Notification
   
153.45   Historic structure
   
153.46   Special conditions
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.60   General standards
   
153.61   Specific standards
   
153.62   Structures
   
153.63   Subdivision proposals
   
153.64   Critical facility
   
153.65   Identified floodways
   
153.66   Identified fringe
   
153.67   Special Flood Hazard Area
   
153.68   Flood-prone areas
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Council of the town does hereby adopt the following floodplain management
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone, and sewer lines; streets; and bridges located
in floodplains; and
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood-blight
areas.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
of 400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1
through A30, Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR, and Zone A99 on a FIRM.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONES AE AND A1 THROUGH A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1%
annual chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations
are shown within these zones. ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of
ZONES A1 THROUGH A30.
      (3)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding, usually areas of ponding, where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding, usually sheet flow on sloping terrain, where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99.
         (a)   Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood event,
but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-construction
federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood hazard where
enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection system, such
as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance rating
purposes.
         (b)   ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade, below
ground level, on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great.
CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to, schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response installations, installations
which produce, use, or store hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or dialing
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.
      (1)   The ordinance codified herein and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas.
      (2)   This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood
loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to as
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ORDINANCE, and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. See FLOOD.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. See FREEBOARD.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP.
      (1)   As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Board of
Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar
to the property involved.
      (2)   Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional.
Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal
preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule,
qualify as an EXCEPTIONAL HARDSHIP.
      (3)   All of these problems can be resolved through other means without
granting a variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the
property owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than
originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC COVERAGE.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during the six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the currently
effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA
through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA).
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; and
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters by
providing a minimum of two openings, in addition to doorways and windows, in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel, or contiguous parcels, of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land, as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller, as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the START OF CONSTRUCTION
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR).
      (1)   An official republication of a community’s FEMA map to effect
changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain boundary
delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features.
      (2)   These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and/or
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
153.07. REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE
FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Floodplain Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
      (1)   Those lands within the jurisdiction of the town subject to
inundation by the regulatory flood.
      (2)   The SFHAs of the town are generally identified as such on the
county and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated September 30,
2015, as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date. These areas are
shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1 through A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
      (2)   ACTUAL START. Either the first placement of permanent construction
of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
      (3)   “Permanent construction” does not include:
         (a)   Land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling;
         (b)   The installation of streets and/or walkways;
         (c)   Excavation for a basement, footings, piers, foundations, or the
erection of temporary forms; nor
         (d)   The installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
      (4)   For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration
of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
SHADED X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). UNSHADED X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B AND C.)
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of the county, and
Incorporated Areas dated September 30, 2015, and the corresponding Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated September 30, 2015, as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date.
   (B)   (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for
each of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an A Zone
on the county and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated September
30, 2015, as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date, shall be
according to the best data available as provided by the state’s Department of
Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
      (2)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party
needs to replace existing data with better data that meets current engineering
standards.
      (3)   To be considered, this data must be submitted to the state’s
Department of Natural Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood- prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new, not yet effective, mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.08 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the
SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation, natural grade, of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   (B)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this
chapter does not create any liability on the part of the town, the state’s
Department of Natural Resources, or the state for any flood damage that results
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.25 ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The Council hereby appoints
the Clerk-Treasurer to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter
and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The administrator is
further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter, which are
consistent with its spirit and purpose. Duties and responsibilities of the
Floodplain Administrator shall include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
153.65 and
153.67(A), and maintain a record of such authorization either by copy of actual
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment;
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection, and furnish upon request, local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and as-built elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
153.26;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
153.26;
      (13)   Perform a minimum of three inspections to ensure that all
applicable ordinance and floodplain development requirements have been
satisfied.
         (a)   The first upon the establishment of the flood protection grade
reference mark at the development site;
         (b)   The second upon the establishment of the structure’s footprint/
establishment of the lowest floor; and
         (c)   The final inspection upon completion and submission of the
required finished construction elevation certificate. Authorized town officials
shall have the right to enter and inspect properties located in the SFHA;
      (14)   Stop-work orders:
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease; and
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (15)   Revoke permits:
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based; and
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development;
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
      (3)   A legal description of the property site;
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades;
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor, including
basement, of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVO 88 or NGVD;
      (6)   Elevation, in NAVO 88 or NGVD, to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed; and
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   (a)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated
structure or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the
applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVO
88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor
elevation survey data submitted. The applicant shall correct deficiencies
detected by such review before any further work is allowed to proceed.
         (c)   Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections
required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project. Any
work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification shall be at
the applicant’s risk.
      (2)   (a)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a
floodproofed structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered professional
engineer and certified by same.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review the floodproofing
certification submitted. The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected
by such review before any further work is allowed to proceed.
         (c)   Failure to submit the floodproofing certification or failure to
make the corrections required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project.
   (C)   Finished construction.
      (1)   Upon completion of construction, an elevation certification (FEMA
Elevation Certificate Form 81-31 or any future updates) which depicts the as-
built lowest floor elevation is required to be submitted to the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (2)   If the project includes a floodproofing measure, floodproofing
certification (FEMA Floodproofing Certificate Form 81-65) or any future updates
is required to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 153.40 DESIGNATION; APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.41 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such
decision to the County Circuit or Superior Court.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.42 PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
Floodplain Management Program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.43 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
153.65 or
153.67(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
153.65 or
153.67(A) will require a permit from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
153.65 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the state’s Department of Natural Resources upon request.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.44 NOTIFICATION.
   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest floor of
a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
   (A)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
   (B)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.45 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.46 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter and the
purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.60 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Parking lots, driveways, and sidewalks within the SFHA shall be
constructed with permeable materials.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1:1) due to the fill or structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory floodwater, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by floodwater, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by floodwater.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory floodwater.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.61 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In addition to the requirements of §
153.60, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
   (A)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area greater
than 400 square feet;
   (B)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the cost
of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure, excluding the value of the land;
   (C)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the costs
of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or exceeds
50% of the market value of the structure, excluding the value of the land,
before damage occurred;
   (D)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for more
than 180 days;
   (E)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
   (F)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
   (G)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a previous
addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.62 STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure, or manufactured home, shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (C)
below.
   (B)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure, or
manufactured home, shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (C) below. Structures located in all A Zones may be floodproofed in
lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator as set forth in §
153.25(B)(12); and
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (C)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG. Elevated structures with fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the flood
protection grade shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (2)   Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls, having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms;
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade;
         (g)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device;
         (h)   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood openings/
venting affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as flood
vents, and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way will
violate the requirements of this division (C). Periodic inspections will be
conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The affidavit
shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder; and
         (i)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with the
structure’s deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below the
lowest floor, where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet,
shall not be improved, finished, or otherwise converted; the community will
have the right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement shall
be recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   (D)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent landfill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor, including basements, shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
   (E)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (C) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (C) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions;
or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (F)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (C) above.
   (G)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.63 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles, especially emergency responders.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.64 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   (A)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent
possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical
facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site
is available.
   (B)   Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the lowest
floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and sealing
measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by
or released into floodwaters.
   (C)   Access routes elevated to or above the FPG shall be provided to all
critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.65 IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
153.07, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the state’s Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway.
      (2)   Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for construction in
a floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources is required prior
to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit,
construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes
land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing, paving, and the
like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the structure.
      (3)   However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction on
the floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
      (4)   If fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade,
prior approval for the fill is required from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization, when applicable, has been issued by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
153.60 through
153.68 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations, if any, shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood
elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway
condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill, including
levees, the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.66 IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   (A)   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
153.60 through
153.68 have been met.
   (B)   The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of any new or
substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.67 SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the state’s Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment;
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway, including letters of
authorization, or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources; and
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway, including letters of authorization, or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
153.60 through
153.68 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site; and
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
153.60 through
153.68 have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the
regulatory flood more than fourteen-hundredths of one foot and shall not
increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.68 FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood-prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
153.60 through
153.68.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of
Chapter 156 of this code of ordinances. All violations shall be punishable by a
fine not exceeding $100 per day.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and, therefore, may cause
coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 1998-08-18A, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 2015-6-16A,
passed 6-16-2015)
CHAPTER 154: STORMWATER PROJECTS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definition
   
154.03   Scope
   
154.04   Content
Minimum Design Standards
   
154.15   Street drainage
   
154.16   Lot drainage
   
154.17   Pipe laying and backfill
   
154.18   Storm sewer abandonment
   
154.19   Fees
   
154.20   Standard plans
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to set standards and guidelines for future
proposed stormwater projects; to develop acceptable QA/QC for all stormwater
projects to ensure and maintain work quality and functionality.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. B) (Ord. 2004-01-A, passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2004-01-B,
passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2023-08-08-3, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition applies unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM.
      (1)   Any human-made utility or natural resource utilized exclusively for
the retention, detention, and/or transmission of stormwater (for the purpose of
drainage).
      (2)   This would include, but not limited to, underground or aboveground
utilities such as pipes, catch basins, curbs, gutters, wash-ways, coffer dams,
lift stations, or manholes.
      (3)   Natural resources to be utilized for the retention, detention, or
transmission of stormwater would include, but not limited to, streams, ditches,
swales, ponds, lakes, and rivers.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. B) (Ord. 2004-01-A, passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2004-01-B,
passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2023-08-08-3, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.03 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall pertain and be in full effect for all new projects and/or
repairs to existing infrastructure where that project and/or repair adds to,
alters, or exposes the existing stormwater system to any change, modification,
or disruption of functionality.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. B) (Ord. 2004-01-A, passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2004-01-B,
passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2023-08-08-3, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.04 CONTENT.
   Whereas the town may be subject to any modification to the existing
stormwater system (as defined) by retrofitting, repair, and or new construction
project by any contractor, the town shall mandate a complete engineering review
by a state certified PE approved by the town’s Stormwater Management Board
prior to authorization to proceed. Further, stormwater drainage plans for a
specific area or improvement shall conform to the Master Drainage Plan, as
revised. In the case of a subdivision, the Conceptual Storm Drainage Plan shall
be reviewed and approved by a state certified PE as directed by the town’s
Stormwater Management Board before the Planning Commission grants primary plat
approval. All projects will abide by the following specifications.
   (A)   Culverts.
      (1)   The locations and culverts shall be determined at the time
construction plans are prepared for the entire subdivision or project. In no
case shall culverts be less than 12 inches in diameter.
      (2)   Pipe end sections or concrete headwalls shall be used at the ends
of all driveway culverts. See Standard Plans G-01 and G-02 in §
154.20.
   (B)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   Projects directing surface water directly into a regulated drain
shall receive approval from the county’s Drainage Board.
      (2)   Storm drainage and surface water installations, including roof
downspouts, foundation footing drains, and/or sump pumps, shall not be
connected to or allowed to empty in the sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   All storm sewers located beneath roadways shall be Class III
reinforced concrete pipe.
      (4)   All storm sewers shall be bedded and backfilled in accordance with
the manufacturer’s recommendations.
      (5)   (a)   All pipes beneath and within five feet of a roadway shall be
bedded and backfilled in B borrow for structure backfill in accordance with
state’s Department of Transportation (INDOT) specifications, latest edition.
         (b)   Additionally, pipes located below a line extending at a slope of
2:1 toward the right-of-way from the five-foot limit shall also be backfilled
in B borrow for structure backfill.
      (6)   All storm sewers shall be constructed of one of the following
materials:
         (a)   Reinforced Concrete Sewer Pipe/Standard: ASTM C-76/Joint: ASTM
C443;
         (b)   Reinforced Concrete Elliptical Pipe/Standard: ASTM C-507;
         (c)   PVC SDR35/Standard: ASTM D-3034/Joint: ASTM D-3212; or
         (d)   High Density Poly — Ethylene/Standard: ASTM D-1248/Joint: ASTM
D-3212.
   (C)   Drainage design criteria.
      (1)   Quality of runoff.
         (a)   The estimated stormwater runoff or design discharge for drainage
areas less than ten acres in size or smaller may be determined by the Rational
Method.
         (b)   The estimated stormwater runoff or design discharge for drainage
of areas larger than ten acres in size shall be determined in accordance with
the Soil Conservation Service Technical Release number 55 (SCS TR-55).
      (2)   Rational Method. The equation is Q = CIA; where:
 
Q = Rate of runoff or discharge, in CFS.
C = Weighted runoff coefficient, expressing the ratio of rate of runoff to rate
of rainfall.
I = Average intensity of rainfall (for a selected storm frequency and duration
equal to the time of concentration) in inches per hour.
A = Drainage area tributary to a point under design in acres.
 
      (3)   Runoff coefficient.
         (a)   The runoff coefficients for the defined surfaces and uses shall
be as follows:
Character of Surface Urban Runoff Coefficients
Character of Surface        Urban Runoff Coefficients
Cultivated (clay)
   Flat                  0.50
   Rolling               0.60
   Steep                 0.72
Cultivated (sandy)
   Flat                  0.30
   Rolling               0.40
   Steep                 0.52
Lawns (clay)
   Flat (0–2%)         0.16
   Rolling (2–7%)      0.21
   Steep (greater than 7%0.30
Lawns (sandy)
   Flat (0–2%)         0.07
   Rolling (2–7%)      0.12
   Steep (greater than 7%0.17
Pasture (clay)
   Flat                  0.30
   Rolling               0.36
   Steep                 0.42
Pasture (sandy)
   Flat                  0.10
   Rolling               0.16
   Steep                 0.22
Pavement
   Asphalt and concrete  0.90
   Brick                 0.80
Roofs                       0.80
Woodland (clay)
   Flat                  0.30
   Rolling               0.35
   Steep                 0.50
Woodland (sandy)
   Flat (0–5% slope)   0.10
   Rolling (5–10% slope0.25
   Steep (greater than 100.30
 
         (b)   The coefficients of this tabulation are applicable to storms of
five- to ten-year frequencies. Coefficients for less frequent higher intensity
storms shall be modified as follows:
Return Multiply “C” by         (c)   In areas for which development plans have not been prepared,
Period the following runoff coefficients for various zoning classifications shall be:Runoff
(Yrs)  Coefficients “C” by Lane Use and Typical Inlet Times (1)
Return Period  Multiply “C” by         (c)   In areas for which development plans have not been prepared,
(Yrs)          the following runoff coefficients for various zoning classifications shall be:Runoff
               Coefficients “C” by Lane Use and Typical Inlet Times (1)
Runoff Coefficients
Land Use       FlatRollingSteepInlet Times (Minutes)
Churches       0.540.600.665–10
Commercial     0.750.830.915
(CBD)
Commercial     0.540.600.66-
(neighborhood)
Detached       0.400.450.5010–15
residential
Garden         0.540.600.665–10
apartments
Half acre lots 0.310.350.3910–15
Industrial     0.630.700.775–10
Parkland       0.180.200.22To be computed
Quarter acre   0.360.460.4410–15
lots
Schools        0.310.350.3910–15
Semi detached  0.450.500.5510–15
residential
 
            1.   Flat terrain 0–2% slopes.
            2.   Rolling terrain 2–7% slopes.
            3.   Steep terrain greater than 7% slopes.
            4.   Interpolation, extrapolation, and adjustment for local
conditions shall be based on engineering experience and judgment.
            5.   The coefficients of this tabulation are applicable to storms
of five- to ten-year frequencies. Coefficients for less frequent higher
intensity storms shall be modified as follows:
 
       Multiply “C” by      (4)   Intensity of rainfall (Rational Method only). The design
       rainfall intensity is dependent upon the frequency of recurrence of the expected storm
Return and the time of concentration. These values are shown on the Intensity Duration Frequency
Period (IDF) curve shown on Standard Plan G-18 in §
       154.20. Soil Conservation Service Method TR-55:         (a)   SCS Runoff Equation: Q = (P
       – Ia)2/[(P – Ia) + S]; where:
Q = Runoff (in.)
P = Rainfall (in.)
S = Potential maximum retention after runoff begins (in.)
Ia = Initial abstraction (in.)
 
         (b)   SCS Curve Number S = 1000/cn – 10; where:
Cover Description        Curve Numbers for Hydrological Soil Groups
Cover Type and Condition A B C D
Cover Description                   Curve Numbers for Hydrological Soil Groups
Cover Type and Condition            A  B  C  D
Cultivated land
   With conservation treatment   72 81 88 91
   Without conservation treatment62 71 78 81
Meadow
   Good condition                30 58 71 78
Open space
   Fair condition                49 69 79 84
   Good condition (grass>75%)    39 61 74 80
   Poor condition (grass<50%)    68 79 86 89
Pasture or range lane
   Good condition                39 61 74 80
   Poor condition                68 79 86 89
Paved parking lots, roofs, and the  98 98 98 98
like, i.e., ...
   Streets, curbed               98 98 98 98
   Streets, ditched              83 89 92 93
Residential by average lot
   1/8 acre                      77 85 90 92
   1/4 acre                      61 75 83 87
   1/3 acre                      57 72 81 86
   1/2 acre                      54 70 80 85
   1 acre                        51 68 79 84
   2 acre                        46 65 77 82
Undeveloped areas by zoning
   Commercial                    89 92 94 95
   Industrial                    81 88 91 93
Wood or forest land
   Good cover                    25 55 70 77
   Thin stand, poor cover, no mul45 66 77 83
Notes:
CN = Curve Number
The values in the table are to be used for Curve Number in SCS runoff
calculations.
 
(Prior Code, App. A, App. B) (Ord. 2004-01-A, passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2004-01-B,
passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2023-08-08-3, passed 8-8-2023)
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.15 STREET DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Maximum spacing of collection points. Stormwater runoff shall not be
carried in streets for a distance of more than 400 feet. The Stormwater
Management Board may require additional collection points, if deemed necessary.
Inlets, curb turnouts, or other types of runoff collection methods shall be so
located as to intercept the flow within the distance specified. (See Standard
Plan G-03 in §
154.20.)
   (B)   Minimum design frequency of recurrence.
      (1)   Maximum overflow provided. For streets where an overflow is
provided so water depth at the gutter line does not exceed six inches prior to
overflowing, the collection system shall be designed to carry at least that
stormwater runoff that can be expected from a storm having a frequency of two
years.
      (2)   Minimum overflow provided. For streets where there is no overflow
or bypass provided as outlined in division (B)(1) above, the collection system
shall be designed to carry at least that stormwater runoff which can be
expected from a storm having a frequency of ten years. In no case shall water
be allowed to become more than 18 inches deep at the gutter line in any street
prior to overflow.
   (C)   Miscellaneous drain design standards.
      (1)   Drainage structures. A catch basin or other approved type of debris
retainer shall be located so as to intercept debris collected by the drainage
system. Such debris retainer shall have a minimum sump depth below the sewer
invert of three feet. (See Standard Plans G-04 through G-06 in §
154.20.)
      (2)   Minimum velocities. The minimum velocities used in designing storm
sewers shall be three feet per second when flowing full.
      (3)   Manning’s “n.” The following values for Manning’s “n” shall be used
for calculating flow capacity:
 
Material              Manning’s “n”
Concrete pipe         0.013
Ditch, not maintained 0.05–0.1
Ditch, maintained     0.030
HDPE                  0.010
PVC                   0.011
 
      (4)   Casting, lids, and inlets. The acceptable castings, lids, and
inlets are shown in Standard Plan G-07 in §
154.20.
      (5)   Under drains. The use of under drains to reduce the accumulations
of sub-surface water shall be required at all depressed areas. Such under
drains shall meet the requirements of Standard Plans G-08 and G-09 in §
154.20 based on a storm with a ten-year recurrence interval or the downstream
capacity, whichever is more restrictive.
      (6)   Retention/detention basins.
         (a)   Retention/detention Basins shall be designed and constructed as
required by the Stormwater Management Board to control the rate of runoff from
a given area. Retention/detention basins shall be designed to control the
runoff for a minimum storm recurrence frequency of 100 years. The design shall
have a Soil Conservation Service Technical Release number 55 Type II
distribution.
         (b)   The outlet from the retention/detention basin shall be designed
to carry no more than the stormwater runoff rate from the given area in its
natural unimproved condition based on a storm with a ten-year recurrence
interval. The outlet discharge from post-development conditions shall be
designed not to exceed the downstream flows from pre-development conditions; a
basin discharge shall not exceed the two-year pre-development rate or the
downstream capacity, whichever is more restrictive. (See Standard Plan G-10 for
stand pipe detail in §
154.20.)
         (c)   All Retention/detention basins must discharge to a defined
watercourse. Where retention/detention basins discharge into low capacity or
sensitive drainage courses, as determined by a state-certified PE, a basin
discharge shall not exceed the two-year pre-development rate.
         (d)   All owner’s/developer’s engineer shall certify and warrant to
the Stormwater Management Board, the Planning Commission, and public works that
the water elevation of the retention/detention basin at peak storage, carried
horizontally, shall not create objectionable flooding upstream or downstream
from the retention/detention basin. The engineer shall submit any
substantiating materials requested by the Stormwater Management Board for
engineering review at the owner’s/developer’s expense. The owner/developer
shall provide a means for emergency overflow in case of failure of the outlet
structure. This emergency overflow shall meet the approval of the Stormwater
Management Board.
      (7)   Drainage structure schedule. Storm drainage plans shall include a
structure schedule indicating structure number, referenced to the plan and
profile, function, style (flat top or standard cone), pipe sizes for inlet and
outlet pipes, invert elevations of pipes, castings brand and type, grate or lid
type, location, and any necessary remarks. Such drainage schedule shall meet
the requirements of Standard Plan G-11 in §
154.20 or approved equal.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. B) (Ord. 2004-01-A, passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2004-01-B,
passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2023-08-08-3, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.16 LOT DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Primary lot.
      (1)   PRIMARY LOT. The portion of the lot between the rear face of the
residence or building and the frontage road.
      (2)   The minimum grades permissible in the primary lot are as follows:
         (a)   Surface grades: 2% recommended, 1% minimum;
         (b)   Lot line swale grades: 2% recommended, 1% minimum; and
         (c)   Cross-lot swale grades: 1% recommended, 0.5% minimum.
   (B)   Secondary lot.
      (1)   SECONDARY LOT. The portion of the lot between the rear face of the
residence or building and the rear property line.
      (2)   The minimum grades permissible in the secondary lot are as follows:
         (a)   Surface grades: 1.5% recommended, 1% minimum;
         (b)   Lot line swale grades: 1% recommended, 0.5% minimum;
         (c)   Cross-lot swale grades: 1% recommended, 0.5% minimum; and
         (d)   Surface grades over septic fields: 2% recommended, 1% minimum.
   (C)   Common swales.
      (1)   COMMON SWALES. One that serves as a drainage course carrying the
runoff from two or more lots or properties. Side lot line swales may be
excepted from this requirement.
      (2)   The minimum top width for a common swale shall be ten feet and the
minimum depth shall be nine inches. (See Standard Plan G-12 in §
154.20)
      (3)   All common swales shall be seeded or sod and protected with an
easement dedicated to the proper authority for swale’s maintenance and or
repair.
   (D)   Minimum design frequency of recurrence and runoff coefficients. The
minimum design frequencies for lot drainage shall correspond to those used for
the drainage design on the streets serving those lots. The finish grade of the
ground surrounding the residence or the building on the lot shall be no less
than 18 inches above the top of curb on the street side of the building and 18
inches above the flow line of a major drainage swale on the swale side of the
house or building. For the purpose of this section, the flow line of any major
drainage swale shall be considered to be a minimum of 12 inches above the
bottom of the swale.
   (E)   Typical lot grading configurations. Typical lot grading shall be as
shown on Standard Plans G-13 through G-16 in §
154.20.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. B) (Ord. 2004-01-A, passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2004-01-B,
passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2023-08-08-3, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.17 PIPE LAYING AND BACKFILL.
   Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with appropriate
ASTM methods for selected pipe type. All storm sewer pipes shall be bedded in
approved material as shown on Standard Plan H-01 in §
154.20. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected.
   (A)   The minimum diameter for all main line storm pipes shall be no less
than 12 inches.
   (B)   (1)   The minimum diameter for all service laterals shall be no less
than four inches.
      (2)   Residential laterals can be converted to two-inch schedule 40 PVC
within four feet of the foundation wall by way of a reducing mission coupling.
   (C)   All stormwater laterals will have tracer wire installed for later
location. The tracer wire will be clearly visible at the cleanout to be
installed within four feet of the foundation wall.
   (D)   No building service lateral shall be laid parallel to or within three
feet of any bearing wall which thereby might be weakened.
   (E)   All joints shall be connected as specified under the appropriate ASTM
code.
   (F)   All joints shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Solvent weld
joints will not be excepted.
   (G)   All manufactured material used in the project shall meet all testing
requirements of the applicable ASTM code. Certification of compliance for said
materials does not preclude further testing. The standard tests required
pertain to main line installation only.
      (1)   A deflection test for flexible pipe shall be performed using a
rigid ball or mandrel with a diameter of no less than 95% of the base inside
diameter of the pipe to be tested. The test should not be performed with the
aid of a mechanical pulling device.
      (2)   An air test shall be provided and conform to one of the following
methods:
         (a)   ASTM F1417-92, Standard Test Method for Installation Acceptance
of Plastic Gravity Sewer Lines Using Low-Pressure for plastic pipe; or
         (b)   ASTM 0924-89, Standard Practice for Testing Concrete Pipe Sewer
Lines by Low-Pressure Air Test Method for concrete pipe.
      (3)   All main lines shall have television inspection prior to final
acceptance. Infiltration and exfiltration tests shall be the responsibility of
the contractor. In the event of failure, the contractor shall be fully
responsible for correction of the problem and retesting.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. B) (Ord. 2004-01-A, passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2004-01-B,
passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2023-08-08-3, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.18 STORM SEWER ABANDONMENT.
   Abandonment of all lines will be done in the presence of the Building
Inspector. The abandonment shall be done in such a way as to keep soil,
construction debris, and other foreign matter out of the storm sewer system. As
much of the abandoned sewer connection shall be removed as possible. The
Building Inspector shall approve, in the field, the amount of abandoned sewer
connection to be removed. The remaining abandoned sewer shall be plugged with a
permanent water-tight plug.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. B) (Ord. 2004-01-A, passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2004-01-B,
passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2023-08-08-3, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.19 FEES.
   The following fees shall be paid by all contractors operating within the
town limits.
   (A)   All contractors must pay a $100 annual registration fee. Contractors
must also provide a certificate of insurance and a $5,000 bond. Contractors
also warrants all documentation is current and in full effect.
   (B)   A sewer inspection permit of $25 is required for all repairs,
modifications, and/or new installations.
   (C)   All plans for proposed projects must pass a engineering review by a
state certified PE approved by the Stormwater Management Board. The cost of
this review will be communicated to the property owner, contractor, and/or
developer submitting the plans for review.
   (D)   Connection fees:
 
Commercial Taps  $250
Industrial Taps  $300
Residential Taps $200
Notes:
For all industrial connections to the stormwater system, property owners shall
submit a water quality report to validate proper water quality for all
discharges into either the system or another regulated watercourse.
 
(Prior Code, App. A, App. B) (Ord. 2004-01-A, passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2004-01-B,
passed 1-13-2004; Ord. 2023-08-08-3, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.20 STANDARD PLANS.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. B) (Ord. 2004-01- A, passed 1-13-20 04; Ord. 2004-01
-B, passed 1-13-20 04; Ord. 2023-08 -08-3, passed 8-8-2023)
CHAPTER 155: EROSION CONTROL
Section
   
155.01   Objective and intent
   
155.02   Authority
   
155.03   Findings; purpose
   
155.04   Applicability
   
155.05   Definitions
   
155.06   Design standards
   
155.07   Land-disturbing activities
   
155.08   Maintenance
   
155.09   Permits; Erosion Control Plan
   
155.10   Inspection
   
155.11   Enforcement
   
155.12   Project termination
   
155.13   Administrative appeals; judicial review
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 OBJECTIVE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The object of this chapter is the control of soil erosion and
sedimentation caused by land-disturbing activities in the town. Measures taken
to control erosion and sedimentation should assure that sediment is not
transported from a site by storm events. The following principles apply to all
land-disturbing activities within the town and are helpful in the preparation
of submissions required under this chapter.
      (1)   To minimize the potential for soil erosion, development should fit
the topography and soils of the site. Areas with steep slopes where deep cuts
and fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible, and natural
contours should be followed as closely as possible.
      (2)   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent to watercourses and lakes also should be
left undisturbed wherever possible.
      (3)   All activities on a site should be conducted on a logical sequence
so that the smallest practical area of land will be excavated for the shortest
practical period of time during development.
      (4)   Sediment basins, silt traps, or filters should be installed prior
to construction to remove sediment from run-off leaving the site.
      (5)   The selection of soil erosion and sedimentation control measures
should be based on an
assessment of the probable frequency of climatic events likely to contribute to
soil erosion and on evaluation of risks, costs, and benefits involved.
      (6)   In the design of erosion control measures, aesthetics and the
requirements of continuing maintenance should be considered.
      (7)   Provisions should be made to accommodate the increased run-off
caused by changed soil
and surface conditions during and after development. Drainageways should be
designed so that their final gradients and resultant velocities will not cause
channel scouring.
      (8)   Permanent vegetation and structures should be installed as soon as
practical during development.
   (B)   (1)   The intent of this chapter is to require practices that will
control soil erosion and thereby reduce the amount of sediment and other
pollutants leaving sites as a result of land-disturbing activities.
      (2)   The chapter applies to nonagricultural land-disturbing activities,
including commercial, institutional, residential, and highway development.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
§ 155.02 AUTHORITY.
   This ordinance codified herein is adopted under the authority granted by
I.C. 36-1-4-11, 36-7-4, and all acts supplemental and amendatory thereto. This
authority provides for the administration, enforcement, and amendment of this
chapter for controlling soil erosion in the town.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
§ 155.03 FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Findings. The town finds that soil erosion resulting from
nonagricultural land-disturbing activities causes a significant amount of
sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site to locations including
ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to conserve natural resources,
to protect air and water quality, and to protect and promote the health,
safety, and welfare of the people to the extent practicable by minimizing the
amount of sediment and other pollutants resulting from soil erosion due to
land-disturbing activities from being transported off-site to adjacent public
or private lands including ditches, streams, lakes, wetlands, and reservoirs.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
§ 155.04 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to nonagricultural land-disturbing activities on land
within the corporate boundaries and jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
§ 155.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND USE. Use of land for the production of animal or plant
life, including forestry, pasturing or yarding livestock, and planting,
growing, cultivating, and harvesting crops for human or livestock consumption.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice, or gravity.
   EROSION CONTROL MEASURE. A practice or a combination of practices to control
erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   EROSION CONTROL PLAN. A written description of pertinent information
concerning erosion control measures designed to meet the requirements of the
ordinance codified herein, as submitted by the applicant for the review and
approval of the town.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human-made change of the land surface
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting, and
grading. In the context of this chapter, it includes only nonagricultural land-
disturbing activities on sites which also require a local improvement location
permit or an approved subdivision plat.
   NONAGRICULTURAL LAND USE. Commercial use of land for the manufacturing and
wholesale or retail sale of goods and services, residential or institutional
use of land intended primarily to shelter people, highway use of land including
lanes, alleys, and streets, and other land uses not included under agricultural
land use.
   PERSON. Any entity, including any individuals, corporation, or public body
holding title to or having an interest in land, operating, leasing, renting, or
having made other arrangements with the title holder by which the title holder
authorizes use of his or her land.
   RUN-OFF. The portion of the precipitation from such sources as rainfall,
snowmelt, or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land-disturbing activity has been proposed in the permit application.
   TOWN. The designated unit of government given the authority to issue
permits.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
§ 155.06 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All erosion control measures including, but not limited to, those required
to comply with this chapter shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications for erosion control measures similar to or the same as those
outlined in the Field Office Technical Guide of the USDA Soil Conservation
Service.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
§ 155.07 LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITIES.
   Control of erosion and sediment is the responsibility of an applicant.
Applicability and requirements are defined as follows.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to the following sites with land-
disturbing activities:
      (1)   Those requiring a subdivision plat approval or local improvement
location permit for the construction of commercial, residential, or
institutional buildings on lots of approved subdivision plats;
      (2)   Those involving grading, removal, or protection ground cover or
vegetation, excavation, land filling, or other land-disturbing activity
affecting a surface area of 10,000 square feet or more;
      (3)   Those involving excavation, filling, or a combination of excavation
and filling affecting 400 cubic yards or more of soil, sand, gravel, stone, or
other material;
      (4)   Those involving street, highway, road, or bridge construction,
enlargement, relocation, or reconstruction; and
      (5)   Those involving the laying, repairing, replacing, or enlarging of
an underground pipe or utility for a distance of 300 feet or more.
   (B)   Erosion and other sediment control requirements. The following
requirements shall be met on all sites.
      (1)   Site dewatering. Sediment-laden water flowing from the site shall
be detained by temporary sediment basins. Also, water shall not be discharged
in a manner that causes erosion in the receiving channel.
      (2)   Waste and material disposal. Wastes or unused building materials,
including but not limited to garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater,
toxic materials, and hazardous substances, shall not be earned by runoff from a
site. Proper disposal of all wastes and used building materials, in line with
the nature of the waste material, is required.
      (3)   Tracking. Sediment being tracked from a site onto public or private
roadways shall be minimized. This can be accomplished initially by a well-
planned layout of roads, access drives, and parking areas of sufficient width
and length. However, protective covering also may be necessary,
      (4)   Sediment removal. Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared
of accumulated sediment. If appreciable sedimentation occurs after a storm
event, the sediment shall be deposited on the parcels of land, if in the site,
from where it likely originated.
      (5)   Drain inlet protection. All storm drain inlets shall be protected
against sedimentation with straw bales, filter fabric, or equivalent barriers
meeting accepted design criteria, standards, and specification.
      (6)   Site erosion control. The following items apply only to the time
period when land-disturbing activities are taking place.
         (a)   Runoff passing through a site from adjacent area shall be
controlled by diverting it around disturbed areas. Alternatively, the existing
channel may be improved to prevent erosion or sedimentation from occurring.
         (b)   Runoff from a disturbed area shall be controlled by one or more
of the following measures.
            1.   Barring unforeseeable weather conditions, all disturbed ground
left inactive for seven or more days shall be stabilized prior to the tenth day
of inactivity, by seeding, sodding, mulching, covering, or by other equivalent
erosion control measures.
            2.   With disturbed areas within a site of ten acres or more, where
drainage is in the same direction or where runoff will result in loss of soil,
an abatement or recovery program is required. Where feasible, one or more
sediment basins shall be constructed. Each sediment basin shall have a depth of
at least three feet and have sufficient surface area to trap the sediment. The
size of sedimentation basins should be at least 1% of its drainage area.
Sediment shall be removed from time to time to maintain a minimum three-foot
depth. When the disturbed area is stabilized, the sediment basin can be
removed. However, if erosion is likely to continue, the sediment basin shall be
maintained by the existing or subsequent landowners. The discharge rate from a
sediment basin shall not cause scouring in the receiving channel.
            3.   With disturbed areas within a site of less than ten acres,
filter fences, straw bales, or equivalent erosion control measures, placed
along all side slopes, and downslope sides of the site, shall be required. Also
required for concentrated flow area to reduce the amount of sediment removed
from the site. However, if these measures are not sufficient to control off-
site sedimentation, a sediment basin may still be required.
         (c)   Erosion from all storage piles shall be controlled by placing
straw bales, filter fence, or other appropriate barriers around the piles.
Adjacent storm drain inlets shall be protected using similar filter barriers.
Moreover, any soil storage pile containing more than ten cubic yards of
material may be located closer than 25 feet to a roadway or a drainage channel
but shall be covered with tarps or a suitable alternative if in existence for
less than seven days. However, if a pile is in existence for more than seven
days, barriers also shall be placed around the pile.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
§ 155.08 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   During the period of land disturbance at a site, all sediment basins
and other erosion control measures necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter shall be applied by the applicant or subsequent landowner.
   (B)   If sedimentation is likely to be a problem after land-disturbing
activities have ceased, some or all of the sediment basins and other erosion
control measures shall be maintained by the applicant or subsequent landowner
for as long as the problem exists.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
§ 155.09 PERMITS; EROSION CONTROL PLAN.
   No person shall begin a land-disturbing activity subject to this section
without receiving approval of an Erosion Control Plan. An application should be
made at the time of the preliminary plat submittal or local improvement
location permit application to minimize the time delay before a project can
begin. By submitting an application, the applicant is implying that the town
has been given permission to enter the site to obtain information required for
review of the Erosion Control Plan.
   (A)   Content of the Erosion Control Plan for land-disturbing activities
covering more than one acre in a given site.
      (1)   Existing site map. A map of existing site conditions on a minimum
scale of one inch equals 100 feet and adequate to show the site and adjacent
areas, including:
         (a)   Site boundaries and adjacent lands which accurately identify the
site location;
         (b)   Lakes, streams, wetlands, channels, ditches, and other
watercourses on and adjacent to the site;
         (c)   One-hundred year floodplains, floodway fringes, and floodways;
         (d)   Location of the predominant soil types as identified by the soil
surveyor as determined by a certified professional soil scientist;
         (e)   Vegetative cover such as grass, weeds, and trees;
         (f)   Location and dimensions of stormwater drainage systems and
natural drainage patterns on and immediately adjacent to the site;
         (g)   Locations and dimensions of utilities, structures, roads,
highways, and paving; and
         (h)   Site topography at a contour interval not to exceed five feet.
      (2)   Plan of final site conditions. A plan of final site conditions on
the same scale as the existing site map showing the site changes.
      (3)   Site construction plan. A Site construction plan including:
         (a)   Locations and dimensions of all proposed land-disturbing
activities;
         (b)   Locations and dimensions of all temporary soil stockpiles;
         (c)   Locations and dimensions of all erosion control measures
necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter;
         (d)   Schedule of the anticipated starting and completion dates of
each land- disturbing activity including the installation of erosion control
measures needed to meet the requirements of this chapter; and
         (e)   Provisions for maintenance of the erosion control measures
during construction.
   (B)   Content of Erosion Control Plan for land-disturbing activities
covering less than one acre in a given site. An Erosion Control Plan statement
describing the site and erosion control measures and including a development
schedule and a simple map showing the locations of the control measures is all
that is required.
   (C)   The town shall promptly review the application and Erosion Control
Plan in conjunction with the subdivision plat and local improvement permit
application to determine whether the requirements of this section have been
met. If the conditions are not met, the town shall inform the applicant in
writing and either may require additional information or may disapprove the
plan. If requested additional information is submitted, the town shall again
determine whether the plan meets the requirements of this section. If the plan
is disapproved, the town shall inform the applicant in writing giving reasons
for disapproval.
   (D)   As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the town may
require the applicant to provide a surety bond or an irrevocable letter of
credit when the Erosion Control Plan has been approved to guarantee a good
faith execution of the Erosion Control Plan and any permit conditions.
      (1)   Notify the town at least 24 hours before commencing with any land-
disturbing activity;
      (2)   Notify the town of the completion of erosion control measures
within seven days after the installation;
      (3)   Obtain permission from the town prior to modifying the Erosion
Control Plan;
      (4)   Install all erosion control measures as identified in the approved
Erosion Control Plan;
      (5)   Maintain all road drainage systems, stormwater drainage systems,
erosion control measures, and other facilities identified in the Erosion
Control Plan until the project has been terminated;
      (6)   Where legal, remove sediment resulting from land-disturbing
activities from adjacent surfaces and drainageways and/or repair erosion damage
to adjacent surfaces and drainageways; and
      (7)   Allow the town to enter the site for verifying compliance with the
Erosion Control Plan or for the performing any work necessary to bring the site
into compliance with the Erosion Control Plan.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
§ 155.10 INSPECTION.
   (A)   To ensure compliance with the Erosion Control Plan, the town shall
inspect sites having ongoing land-disturbing activities at least once a month
during the period between March 1 and November 30 and at least twice during the
period between December 1 and February 28.
   (B)   If land-disturbing activities are being carried out without a permit,
the town shall issue a stop-work order pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-
4-11 and I.C. 36-1-6-2.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
§ 155.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town shall post a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Any land-disturbing activity regulated under this chapter is being
undertaken without a permit;
      (2)   The Erosion Control Plan is not being implemented in good faith; or
      (3)   The conditions of the permit are not being met.
   (B)   Upon appeal to the town, a stop-work order or the revocation may be
retracted.
   (C)   Ten days after posting a stop-work order, the town may issue a notice
of intent to the violator stating that 14 days after issuing the notice of
intent, the town will use the surety bond to perform the work necessary to
provide compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   If, within five days after notification, a permit holder does not
comply with the Erosion Control Plan or permit conditions, the town shall
revoke the permit.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.12 PROJECT TERMINATION.
   An orderly and timely termination of a project with land-disturbing
activities should be planned between all persons involved with a site.
   (A)   Nearing the end of a project, but prior to final land grading,
seeding, and mulching, the person holding the permit should petition, in
writing, the town to allow the installation of utility lines on the site. Those
persons involved in the installation of utility lines shall perform their work
promptly to minimize the time period during which some of the land may be left
in a relatively unprotected state. After the utility lines have been installed,
the person holding the permit shall promptly complete all erosion control
activities.
   (B)   When a project has been completed, the person holding the permit shall
petition, in writing, the town for approval of erosion control measures which
are to remain on the site to evaluate the adequacy of these control measures.
      (1)   If the erosion control measures are approved, any surety bonds and/
or letters of credit shall be released forthrightly. However, maintenance
responsibilities shall remain with the person owning the land.
      (2)   If the erosion control measures are not approved because they are
not in line with either the Erosion Control Plan or the general principles of
the ordinance codified herein, the town shall notify, in writing, the person
holding the permit of unacceptable features. After a minimum period of two
weeks during which corrective measures are taken, a petition, again in writing,
may be sent asking the town to evaluate the adequacy of the erosion control
measures. If, in good faith, the town again decides that the erosion control
measures are inadequate, the town may delay the release of any surety bonds
and/or letters of credit for up to two months. After an agreed-upon time period
of two months or longer has lapsed without correct measures being taken, the
town may use the surety bonds to finance changes or additions to the erosion
control measures needed to complete the project.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
§ 155.13 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Local executive body or Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Judicial review. Final decisions of the local executive body or Board
of Appeals are subject to review by the court of the county, provided an appeal
is filed within 30 days from the date of the final decision of Board of
Appeals.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a forfeiture or fine as provided in §
10.99 and the costs of prosecution for each violation. Each day a violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter also may be enforced by
injunction.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. A)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Definitions
   
156.002   General powers; planning and land development
   
156.003   Filing fees
   
156.004   Figures
   
156.005   Specification diagrams and drawings
Plan Commission
   
156.015   Establishment
   
156.016   Definitions
   
156.017   Membership
   
156.018   Terms of members
   
156.019   Conflict of interest
   
156.020   Technical Advisory Committee
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
156.035   Establishment
   
156.036   Membership
   
156.037   Conflict of interest
   
156.038   Administration
   
156.039   Use variance
   
156.040   Variance from development standards
   
156.041   Special exceptions and contingent uses
   
156.042   Review
Economic Development Commission
   
156.055   Establishment
   
156.056   Membership and terms
   
156.057   Residency requirements
   
156.058   Authority and duties
Building; Building Code
   
156.070   International Building Code
   
156.071   Improvement location permits
   
156.072   Inspections
   
156.073   Certificates of occupancy
   
156.074   Demolition of building or structure
   
156.075   Administration and enforcement
Districts and Boundaries
   
156.090   Determination of district boundaries
   
156.091   General regulations pertaining to districts
   
156.092   Districts designated
   
156.093   Description of districts
   
156.094   Schedule of district regulations
Residential Uses and Requirements
   
156.105   Uses defined
   
156.106   Area and width
   
156.107   Accessory uses
   
156.108   Front yard
   
156.109   Projection into yards
   
156.110   Tapered yard
   
156.111   Height
   
156.112   Other provisions and requirements
   
156.113   Mobile home parks
Business Uses and Requirements
   
156.125   Use defined
   
156.126   Other provisions and requirements
Industrial Uses and Requirements
   
156.140   Permitted use
   
156.141   Other provisions and requirements
Contingent Uses; Standards
   
156.155   Definition
   
156.156   Parking requirements
   
156.157   Building heights
Outdoor Lighting
   
156.170   Applicability
   
156.171   Conformance
   
156.172   Illumination standards
   
156.173   Luminaire standards
   
156.174   Prohibited outdoor lighting
   
156.175   Exempt outdoor lighting
   
156.176   Procedural requirements
   
156.177   Waivers
   
156.178   Enforcement
   
156.179   Definitions
Special Exceptions and Requirements
   
156.190   Definition
   
156.191   Procedure
Non-Conforming Uses
   
156.205   Definition
   
156.206   Restricted, extension, reverting, and restoration of use
   
156.207   Temporary occupancy of mobile homes
   
156.208   Mobile homes
Signs
   
156.220   Purposes
   
156.221   Applicability and effect
   
156.222   Definitions and interpretation
   
156.223   Computations
   
156.224   Signs permitted on private property
   
156.225   Permits required
   
156.226   Design, construction, and maintenance
   
156.227   Signs in the public right-of-way
   
156.228   Exempt signs
   
156.229   Prohibited signs
   
156.230   General permit procedures
   
156.231   Permits to construct or modify signs
   
156.232   Temporary and portable sign permits
   
156.233   Violations
   
156.234   Enforcement and remedies
   
156.235   Permit fees for signs
Parabolic and Dish Antennas
   
156.250   Permit required
   
156.251   Definitions
   
156.252   Regulations
   
156.253   Enforcement; nuisances; remedies
Subdivisions
   
156.265   General regulations and administration
   
156.266   Definitions
   
156.267   Design standards
   
156.268   Required land improvements
   
156.269   Procedures for plat approval
   
156.270   Agreements, bonds, warranties
   
156.271   Forms for certification
   
156.272   Inspections
   
156.273   Permits
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Certain terms and words used herein shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   Words in the present tense include the future, and vice versa.
      (2)   Words in the singular number include the plural, and vice versa.
      (3)   The word BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE, and vice versa.
      (4)   The word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (B)   For the purpose of this zoning code, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-1)
      ACCESSORY BUILDING AND USES.
         (a)   A building or use subordinate to another structure or use
located on the same lot, and which does not change or alter the character of
the premises and which is not used for human occupancy.
         (b)   Local public utility facilities, including electric current,
sewer, gas, and water distribution, wires and conduits with their support,
poles, guy wires, transformers, wire cables, and other incidental equipment,
and including public telephone booths.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-2)
      AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure used for the conduct of farming
operations, but not including a dwelling or private garage.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-3)
      ALLEY. A permanent public service way providing a secondary means of
access to abutting lands.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-4)
      BLOCK. Property having frontage on one side of a street and located
between the two nearest intersections or intercepting streets, or nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway, or
other barrier. When intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-
way, waterway, or other barriers do not exist, the unit of 1,250 feet shall be
used and may begin at a quarter section line and terminate each 1,250 feet
unless intersected by a street.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-5)
      BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no structural connections with
another building.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-6)
      BUILDING, FRONT LINE. The line of the face of the building nearest the
front line.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-7)
      BUILDING, HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the lot ground
level to the highest point of the roof for a flat roof, to the deck line of a
mansard roof, and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip,
and gambrel roofs.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-8)
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of a lot on which said building is attached. The principal
accessory building shall be counted as part of the PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-9)
      BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal area of the principal and accessory
building, excluding open steps or terraces, non-enclosed porches not exceeding
one story in height, or architectural appurtenances projecting to more than two
feet.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-10)
      BUILDING LINE. The line that establishes the minimum permitted distance
on a lot between the front line of a building and the front line of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-11)
      BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of
goods, wares, merchandise, or services; the maintenance of operation of offices
or recreational, amusement, or entertainment enterprises for profit.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-12)
      CAMPGROUND. An area of land used for short-term dwelling purposes by
providing spaces for tents, travel trailers, vehicular units designed for or
adapted for vacation or recreational housing, and accessory facilities and
structures intended for use as a part of the CAMPGROUND.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-13)
      CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including columbaria, crematories, mausoleums, and mortuaries when
operated in conjunction with, and within the boundaries of, a CEMETERY.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-14)
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate stating that the occupancy and
use of property or a building or structure referred to thereon complies with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-15)
      CLINIC or MEDICAL HEALTH CENTER. A business establishment where patients
are admitted for examination, tests, and/or treatment, and containing or
utilized by two or more licensed physicians and/or dentists.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-16)
      COMPREHENSIVE LONG RANGE DEVELOPMENT GUIDE. A plan, or any portion
thereof, prepared by the Plan Commission, and depicting the general location
and extent of present and proposed physical facilities, including housing,
industrial and commercial uses, parks and recreational areas, schools,
transportation facilities, and other community facilities and future land use.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-17)
      DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A scale drawing showing boundaries of the site to be
developed, the location and dimensions of proposed uses, building lines,
easements, and open spaces, drainage plans, and other information and material
required by this chapter; and which presents a unified and organized
arrangement of the proposed use and improvement of the site, and illustrating
its functional relationship to the existing and potential use of adjacent
lands.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-18)
      CONDOMINIUM. A parcel of land and certain parts of buildings thereon
owned in common with others, which would normally be used by all the occupants,
such as yards, foundations, basements, floors, walls, hallways, stairways,
elevators, and other related common elements, together with individual
ownership in fee of a particular unit or portion of such building.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-19)
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof used primarily as a place of
abode for one or more persons; but not including hotels, lodging or boarding
houses, or tourist homes.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-20)
      DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or a portion of a dwelling used by one person
or one family for cooking, living, and sleeping purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-21)
      EASEMENTS. A grant by a property owner for the use of a parcel of land by
the general public, a corporation or certain person or persons for a specified
purpose or purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-22)
      FAMILY. One or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit, as
distinguished from a group occupying a hotel, club, nursing home, fraternity,
or sorority.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-23)
      FARM. An area, containing five acres or more, used for agricultural
operations, such as truck gardening, tree or plant nursery, the production of
fruits, grains, livestock, or poultry, and the processing of farm products by
the resident, owner, or tenant, but not including a slaughterhouse.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-24)
      FENCE. A continuing structure enclosing a yard or a parcel of land, other
than agricultural, and/or portions thereof, the purpose of which is to provide
a deterrent to ingress and egress from the property enclosed, and shall
include, such structure constructed from pickets, cyclone wire, lattice strips,
vinyl, and/or board fencing of a decorative nature.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-25)
      FLOODPLAIN. The area adjoining a river, stream, or lake which has been or
may be hereafter covered by floodwater as determined and designated by the
state’s Flood Control and Water Resources Commission under the State Flood
Control Act, being I.C. 14-28-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-26)
      FLOOD CONTROL. The prevention of floods, and the destruction caused
thereby, through the control, regulation, diversion, or confinement of
floodwater or flood flow and engineering practices; and all things incidental
thereto or connected therewith.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-27)
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building with capacity for not more than
three motor vehicles per family, not more than one of which may be a commercial
vehicle of not more than three ton capacity. A garage designed to house two
motor vehicles for each family in an apartment building shall be classified as
a PRIVATE GARAGE.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-28)
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, except those defined as PRIVATE
GARAGES, used for the storage or care of motor vehicles; or where such vehicles
are equipped for operation, repaired, or kept for remuneration, hire, or sale.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-29)
      GRADE (FINISHED). The average level of the finished surface of ground
adjacent to the exterior wall of a building.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-30)
      GROUND FLOOR AREA. The square foot area of a residential building within
its largest outside dimensions computed on a horizontal plane of the ground
floor level, exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages, and
exterior and interior stairways.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-31)
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and
participated in solely by members of the resident family, which use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling or dwelling purposes and
does not change the character thereof. In no event shall a barber shop, tea
room, or animal hospital be construed as a HOME OCCUPATION.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-32)
      HOME PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. A place within the residence of a professional
person occupying not more than 20% of the livable floor area thereof and in
connection therewith; and no merchandise or commodity is offered for sale and
no advertising is utilized on the premises other than one identification sign
not exceeding two square feet in area. In no event shall a barber shop, beauty
shop, animal hospital, or similar use be construed as a HOME PROFESSIONAL
OFFICE.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-33)
      HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which lodging is
provided and offered to the public for compensation, and which is open to
transient guests in contradistinction to a boarding or lodging house.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-34)
      IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit authorizing proposed construction,
enlargement, or moving of a building or structure or other property
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-35)
      JUNK YARD. Any place at which personal property is or may be salvaged for
reuse, resale, reduction, or similar disposition, and is owned, possessed,
collected, accumulated, dismantled, or assorted, including, but not limited to,
used or salvaged base metal or metals, their compounds or combination; used or
salvaged ropes, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, lumber, mill work, brick, and
similar property except animal matter; used motor vehicles, machinery, or
equipment which are used, owned, or possessed for the purpose of wrecking, and
from which parts are salvaged.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-36)
      KENNEL. Any lot or premises, other than a veterinary hospital or pet
shop, in which four or more dogs or other similar fur-bearing animals at least
six months of age, are harbored, sheltered, kept, or allowed to remain, or are
kept for sale, breeding, boarding, training, or treatment purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-37)
      LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS. The off-street area required for the
receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise, which is
required to be a 12-foot by 50-foot loading space with a 16-foot height
clearance, and paved with a hard surface.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-38)
      LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
ownership or for building development.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-39)
      LOT AREA. The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of streets,
highways, alleys, roadways, or other rights-of-way in conformance with highway
thoroughfare plans in effect.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-40)
      LOT, CORNER. A lot at the junction of and abutting two or more
intersecting streets.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-41)
      LOT, COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot covered by the building area.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-44)
      LOT, FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. Sixty percent of the required lot width must front on an
approved public street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on
corner lots, that portion with the least amount of road frontage shall be
considered the front yard.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-45)
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or a through lot.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-42)
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot, other than a corner lot, with frontages on more than
one street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as DOUBLE
FRONTAGE LOTS.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-43)
      LOT GROUND LEVEL. For buildings having walls facing one street only, the
elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the wall facing the street; for
buildings having walls facing more than one street, the average of the
elevation of the sidewalk at the center of all walls facing the streets, the
average level of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building. Any
wall approximately parallel to, and not more than five feet from a street to be
considered as facing the street.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-46)
      LOT LINES, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the
lot from the street or place; and in the case of a corner lot, a line
separating the narrowest street frontage of the lot from the street, except in
cases where the deed restrictions in effect designate another line as the front
lot line.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-47)
      LOT LINE, REAR. Lot line which is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line, and in case of irregular or triangular-shaped lots, a line ten
feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the
front lot line.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-48)
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-49)
      LOT WIDTH. The dimension of a lot measured between the side lot lines of
the building line.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-50)
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING. Factory-fabricated, transportable structures
designed for use as temporary or permanent dwellings, partially or completely
self-contained, including, but not limited to, modular homes, single or multi-
section mobile homes, travel trailers, compact homes, motor homes, camping
trailers, truck campers, and pickup covers, which for the purpose of this
chapter are divided into three principal classes.
         (a)   CLASS A. Multi-section mobile homes, modulars, compact homes,
and expandable units for location on a lot, attached to a permanent foundation
at the site, and designed as completely self-contained dwellings when connected
to the required utilities.
         (b)   CLASS B. Large, single-section mobile homes that may or may not
be permanently sited, and which are greater than eight feet, but less than 32
feet in body length; including single-section units with additions, pull-outs
and tip-outs. This class of manufactured housing is built on a chassis and
designed to be used as a completely self-contained dwelling for one or more
persons.
         (c)   CLASS C. Travel trailers, motor homes, camping trailers, truck
campers, and pickup covers that are primarily vehicles; partially to completely
self-contained units with body width of less than eight feet; designed as
temporary dwelling units for recreation, camping, and travel, and which may be
self-powered or towed by another vehicle; and which are not attached to a
permanent foundation at the site, but may or may not be connected to utilities.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-51)
      MOBILE HOMES. Any vehicle, including the equipment sold as a part of the
vehicle which is so constructed as to permit its use as a conveyance upon
public streets by either self-propelled or non-self-propelled means, and which
is designed, constructed, reconstructed, or added to by means of an enclosed
addition or room in such a manner as will permit the occupancy thereof as a
dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons; and which is both used and
occupied as a dwelling or sleeping place having no foundation other than
wheels, jacks, skirting, or other temporary support.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-52)
      MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land upon which two or more mobile homes are
harbored for the purpose of being occupied either free of charge or for revenue
purposes; and shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used
or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-53)
      MODULAR DWELLING. A large wheel-less housing element, usually with
perimeter framing and no chassis, permanently sited on its own foundation.
Modular units may be fastened together in any horizontal or vertical
combination to make multi-family units, or they can become single-family
detached units including, but not limited to double-wides.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-54)
      PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open area other than a street or alley designed
for use or used for the temporary parking of more than four motor vehicles when
available for public use, whether free or for compensation; or as an
accommodation for clients or customers.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-55)
      PARKING SPACE. A space other than on a street or alley designed for use
or used for the temporary parking of a motor vehicle, and being not less than
nine feet wide and 20 feet long, exclusive of passageways.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-56)
      PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, or
any group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-57)
      PLAT. Map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-58)
      PRIVATE SCHOOL. Private pre-grade, grade, high, or preparatory school or
academy.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-59)
      PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Office of members of a recognized profession, such
as architect, artist, attorney, dentist, engineer, musician, physician,
surgeon, or other professional persons.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-60)
      PUBLIC SCHOOL. A pre-grade, primary, grade, or high school, college,
university, technical, or trade school which is publicly owned and operated.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-61)
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle primarily designed as temporary living
quarters for recreation, camping, or travel, either with its own motor power or
mounted on or towed by another powered vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-62)
      ROOMING HOUSE (BOARDING, LODGING HOUSE, DORM). A dwelling or part
thereof, other than a hotel, motel, or restaurant, where meals and/or lodging
are provided for compensation, for three or more unrelated persons where no
cooking or dining facilities are provided in the individual rooms.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-63)
      SHED, STORAGE. An accessory building designed and erected for the purpose
of storing lawn and garden tools and implements, recreational equipment, and
those miscellaneous household items, and which shall be sized and constructed
in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-64)
      SIDEWALK, PRIVATE. A paved walkway located within the boundaries of a
private lot.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-65)
      SIDEWALK, PUBLIC. A paved thoroughfare platted, designed, or used for
public pedestrian traffic located at the front of each building lot on the
street side of the front lot line, and running parallel to the abutting street,
place, or road.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-66)
      SIGN. Any board, device, structure, or part thereof used for advertising
display or publicity purposes. Signs placed or erected by governmental agencies
for the purposes of showing street names, traffic directions, regulations, or
other governmental purposes shall not be included.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-67)
      STREET. A right-of-way other than an alley, dedicated or otherwise
established for the public use, usually affording the principal means of access
to abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-68)
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any changes in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, girders, or any
substantial change to the exterior walls or roof.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-70)
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground, or attachment to something having a location on the ground.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-69)
      TOURIST HOME. A building in which one, but not more than five, guest
rooms are provided or offered for overnight accommodations to travelers or
transient guests for compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-71)
      TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. Secretarial, business school, or college when
not publicly owned, or not owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious, charitable, or nonprofit organization; or a school conducted as a
commercial enterprise for teaching trades or arts, such as dancing, music,
barbering, cosmetology, drafting, or industrial and technical arts.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-72)
      TRAILER. A wheeled vehicle originally designed and constructed so as to
be towed by a motorized vehicle; including, but not limited to, semi-trailers,
carry-alls, and towed recreational vehicles used as temporary dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-73)
      TRAILER, STORAGE. A closed trailer used for the purpose of storing
materials and equipment, and which is supported by its own wheels or by
blocking.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-74)
      USE. The employment or occupation of a building, structure, or land for a
person’s service, benefit, and enjoyment.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-75)
      USE, NON-CONFORMING. An existing use of land or building which fails to
comply with the requirements of this chapter applicable to the district in
which such use is located.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-76)
      USE, OPEN. The use of a lot without a building, or including a building
incidental to the open use with a ground floor area equal to 5% or less of the
area of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-77)
      VARIANCES. A modification of the specific requirements of this chapter
granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with the terms of this
chapter for the purpose of assuring that no property, because of special
circumstances applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly
enjoyed by other properties in the same vicinity and district.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-78)
      YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal building, open,
unoccupied, and unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-79)
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot unoccupied
other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts, and similar
structures or landscaping, the depth of which is the least distance between the
street right-of-way line and the building line.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-80)
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, unoccupied
other than by accessory buildings which do not occupy more than 30% of the
required space, the depth of which is the least distance between the rear lot
line and the rear of such main building.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-81)
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard, or front lot line where no front yard is
required, to the rear yard, the width of which is measured horizontally at 90
degrees with the side lot line from the nearest part of the main building.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1-82)
(Ord. 2000-11-21, passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-04-20-1, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 156.002 GENERAL POWERS; PLANNING AND LAND DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The provisions of this chapter are to plan for and regulate
the use, improvement, and maintenance of real property, and the location,
construction, and maintenance of structures, buildings, and other improvements,
and to regulate the platting and subdividing of property within the town. The
purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the health, safety,
convenience, and welfare of the public and to plan for the orderly future
development of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2-1)
   (B)   Private covenants, easements, and agreements. It is not intended by
this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any private covenants,
easements, or other agreements between parties which impose greater
restrictions upon the location, use, condition, construction, improvement, or
maintenance of property, structures, or improvements than the minimum
requirements and restrictions imposed herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2-2)
§ 156.003 FILING FEES.
   (A)   Applications and petitions filed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be accompanied by the filing fee as may be specified by the
Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-11-1)
   (B)   All such fees shall be paid to and collected by the Executive
Secretary. The receipts for which shall accompany the applications and
petitions when presented before the appropriate board or commission. No part of
any fee paid pursuant to this section shall be returnable to the applicant or
petitioner.
   (C)   The following schedule of fees shall apply:
      (1)   Certificate of zoning compliance:
 
Commercial  $25
Residential $10
 
      (2)   Other planning related fees:
 
Plan Commission
   Planned development review              $1,000
   Rezoning fee                            $250
   Special meetings requested by a petition$200
Board of Zoning Appeals Hearings
   Special meetings requested by a petition$200
   Zoning Ordinance books                  $10
 
      (3)   Subdivision and planned development fees:
 
Engineering, Planning, and Professional Review Fees (Application Fee) per Lot
<10 lots   $450
11–25 lot$350
26–39 lot$300
>40 lots   $250
 
Inspection Fee
2% of total approved cost of construction or installation of improvements
 
Maps
Land use     $3
Soils        $3
Streets      $3
TIF District $3
Wards        $3
Zoning       $3
 
Pre-application Fees
<10 lots $500
>10 lots $1,000
 
Maintenance Letter of Credit
120% of total cost of improvements
 
Cleaning and televising of sanitary and storm lines, per linear foot $0.89
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-11-2) (Ord. 2006-6-20, passed 6-20-2006; Ord. 2006-9-19,
passed 9-16-2006)
§ 156.004 FIGURES.
   (A)   Figure 1; Residential uses and requirements.
Requirements Single-Family Dwelling Multi-Family Dwelling
Requirements               Single-Family Dwelling   Multi-Family Dwelling
District in which use is   R1, R2, C1, C2, AG, and  R2, C1, C2
permitted                  RMH
Maximum front yard in feet 45                       45
Maximum lot coverage in
percent of lot, including  35                       60
building and paved
surfaces
Minimum front yard in feet 35                       30
Minimum ground floor area  1,000                    1,152 sq. ft. plus 576 sq.
in sq. ft.                                          ft. per family over two
Minimum height of building 25                       25*
or structure in feet
Minimum lot size in sq.                             6,500 plus 4,000 for each
ft. per dwelling unit in   12,000                   additional family unit
district indicated                                  after first
Minimum lot width in feet  100                      80
Minimum rear yard in feet  20                       5
                           20 ft. on any one side   10 ft. on any one side
Minimum side yard in feet  yard, 40 ft. minimum for yard, 20 ft. minimum for
                           both side yards          both side yards
                                                    Minimum of 2 per unit; 0.5
Parking spaces             N/A                      additional spaces for each
                                                    bedroom in a unit above 1
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-1)
   (B)   Figure 2; Business uses and requirements, types of business use.
Requirements Local Business General Business Shopping Center
Requirements                    Local Business General Business Shopping Center
Maximum building height in feet 30             30               45
Maximum front yard in feet      15             15               15
Maximum lot coverage in percent 60             90               -
of lot
Minimum side yard in feet along
the side street line of a
corner lot where block is       5              5                5
adjoined by a residential
district
Minimum side yard in feet in
blocks not adjoining or         None           None             None
including a residential
district
Minimum side yard in feet where
a commercial district adjoins a 10             10               10
residential district within the
block
Permitted districts             C1, C2, and I1 C2 and I1        C3
Notes:
Parking requirements shall govern the lot coverage.
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-2)
   (C)   Figure 3; Business uses, parking spaces required.
Types of Use Parking Space Required
Types of Use                            Parking Space Required
Automobile and truck repair             1 for each 200 sq. ft. of floor area. 1
                                        space inside/1 space outside
Automobile or trailer sales area        1 for each 1,000 sq. ft. of the
                                        premises used for retail purposes
Bowling alley                           3 for each lane plus 1 for every 6
                                        spectator seats
Categories listed in §                 1 for each 500 sq. ft. of floor area
156.125(A)(2)
Categories listed in §
156.125(A)(3) through (A)(7), (A)(8)    1 for each 125 sq. ft. of floor area
(c), and (A)(8)(e)
Category listed under §                As determined by the Board
156.126(K)
Dancing academy                         1 for each 200 sq. ft. of floor area
Department store                        1 for each 200 sq. ft. of floor area
Hotel                                   1 for each 3 employees plus 1 for every
                                        2 sleeping rooms
Indoor theater                          1 for each 6 seats
                                        1 for each 3 employees plus 1 for every
                                        10 seats in the waiting room. Other
Motor bus/railroad passenger station    retail uses in connection therewith
                                        shall provide 1 space for each 2
                                        employees
                                        Space to accommodate 50% of the active
Private club or lodge                   membership at 1 space per each 3
                                        members
                                        1 for each 3 employees or occupants.
Storage warehouse/wholesale             The maximum number of employees or
establishment                           occupants to be used in determining
                                        spaces
Veterinary hospital or kennel for small 1 space for each 3 animals to be
animals                                 confined in temporary or permanent pens
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-3)
   (D)   Figure 4; Businesses uses, loading and unloading berths required.
 
Type of Use                 Gross Floor Area            Loading and Unloading
                                                        Berths
Office building             100,000 or less             1
Office building             100,001 to 336,000 sq. ft.  2
Office building             Each additional 200,000 sq. 1 additional
                            ft.
Retail stores, department
stores, wholesale           3,000 to 15,000 sq. ft.     1
establishments, and storage
uses
Retail stores, department
stores, wholesale           15,001 to 40,000 sq. ft.    2
establishments, and storage
uses
Retail stores, department
stores, wholesale           Each additional 25,000 sq.  1 additional
establishments, and storage ft.
uses
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-4)
   (E)   Figure 5; Industrial uses and requirements.
 
Requirements                                 Industrial
Districts which use is permitted             I1
Maximum building height in feet              45
Maximum front yard in feet                   10
Maximum lot coverage in percent of lot       None expect for required yards
Minimum side yard required in feet where the 30
industrial adjoins a residential area
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-5)
   (F)   Figure 6; Industrial uses, loading and unloading berth requirements.
 
Gross Floor Area of Industrial Use Number of Berths Required
15,000 sq. ft.                     1
15,001 to 40,000 sq. ft.           2
40,001 to 100,000 sq. ft.          3
Each additional 40,000 sq. ft.     1 additional
Parking                            Refer to Figure 3 in division (C) above
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-6)
   (G)   Figure 7; Contingent uses and requirements.
Type of Use District in Which Use is Permitted Number of Parking Spaces to be
                                               Provided
Type of Use               District in Which Use is Number of Parking Spaces to
                          Permitted                be Provided
Boarding or lodging house C1 and C2                1 for each 3 occupants
Bulletin board for a      All except I1            N/A
church or public building
Church or temple          All except I1            1 for each 3 seats
Fraternity, sorority,     C1 and C2                1 for each 3 occupants
student operative
Housing for tenants and   AG and R2                1-1/2 for each bedroom
ag./seasonal workers
Mortuary                  C1, C2, and I1           1 for each 5 seats in main
                                                   auditorium
Municipal or government                            1 for each 125 sq. ft. of
building                  All                      ground floor area of
                                                   building
Nursing home or homes for C1 and C2                1 for each 7 persons
the aged
Professional office in
residence of practicing   All                      2 additional plus residence
professional
Plant nursery             AG, C1, C2, and I1       None required
                                                   One for each 125 sq. ft. of
Public library or museum  All                      ground floor area of
                                                   building
Public park or public     All                      None required
recreational facility
School (public or                                  One for each 3 members of
parochial)                All except I1            the staff; plus 1 for each
                                                   8 seats in an auditorium
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-7)
   (H)   Figure 8; Contingent uses, maximum height of buildings and structures.
 
Districts in Which Use is Permitted Maximum Height
C1                                  30 ft.
C2                                  40 ft.
C3                                  40 ft.
I1                                  45 ft.
R1                                  25 ft.
R2                                  25 ft.
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-8)
   (I)   Figure 9; Special exceptions and requirements.
Special Exceptions District(s) in Which Use May be Permitted Requirements
Special Exceptions       District(s) in Which Use Requirements
                         May be Permitted
Agricultural             All except R1 and R2     -
                                                  b6 (heliport), b12
                                                  (airport), g, h2, i1
Airport/heliport         I1                       (airport), i2 (heliport),
                                                  j1, k1, n2, p,r1, s, t, u,
                                                  v, w, y
Antique shop             All                      b1, c1, f1, h1, k8, v, y
Artificial lake (3 acres All                      c1, i1, j1, k2, p, r1, u1,
or more)                                          v, w, y
Cemetery/crematory       I1                       b11, c2, i1, p, r1, u1, v,
                                                  w, y
Clinic/medical health    All except R1            b1, c3, h4, j1, k3, l1, r1,
                                                  v, w, y
College building         All except I1            b1, c6, a3, g, h4, k4, l2,
                                                  m1, n1, p, t, v, y
Single-family to two-    R2                       b14, c1, f5, h1, k27, p, y
family conversion
Country club/golf course All                      c1, d3, j1, k5, l1, p, r1,
                                                  v, w, y
Fire station/police      All                      b1, c1, h1, j1, k6, l1, s,
station                                           y
Greenhouse (commercial)  C1 and C2                b4, c6, f2, h1, k7, m4, n1,
                                                  r1, v, w, y
Home occupation          All                      b1, c1, f1, h1, k8, v, y
Hospital                 C1 and C2                b1, c6, g, h5, j1, k9, l2,
                                                  m5, n1, p, s, t, v, y
                                                  a1, b10, c7, d3, g, h3, j2,
Industrial park          I1                       k10, l2, m6, n2, o, p, q,
                                                  r1, s, t, v, w, y
Junk yard                I1                       c1, e, h1, i4, k11, l5, m2,
                                                  n3, r1, v, w, y
Kindergarten/nursery     All except I1            b3, c8, f3, h1, i3, j1,
                                                  k12, p, r1, v, y
                                                  b8, c6, d2, g, h1, i8, j1,
Mobile home park         C1, C2, and I1           k13, l1, o, p, q, r1, s,
                                                  u1, v, w, y
Outdoor theater          All except R1 and R2     c6, i6, k11, p, r1, s, t,
                                                  v, w, y
Outdoor commercial                                c4, d1, h1, i1, j3, k14,
recreational enterprise  All except R1 and R2     l2, n1, p, r2, s, t, v, w,
                                                  y
Penal/correctional       I1                       b13, c10, e, g, k15, l5,
institute                                         n3, p, r1, y
Transmission lines/
conduits for water, gas, All                      p
oil, sewer, or electric
current
Practice golf driving    All except R1 and R2     c6, i7, j3, k16, l2, r1, v,
range                                             y
Private recreational     All                      c4, g, h1, j3, k16, l2, r1,
development                                       v, y
Produce terminal                                  b10, c7, d3, e, h1, i8, j1,
(wholesale)              I1                       k11, l4, m3, n2, p, r1, s,
                                                  t, v, w, y
Public camp              C1, C2, and I1           b7, c6, d1, n1, j3, k17,
                                                  l2, r1, u1, v, w, y
Public/employees parking All                      b2, p, r1, s, t, v, x, y, z
Public utility station   All                      c1, g, j4, k18, r1, v, y
Radio/television tower   C1, C3, and I1           k19, r1, v
Raising or breeding of
non-farming fowls and    I1                       b4, c10, h1, j1, k7, l2,
animals commercially,                             m1, n2, r1, v, w, y
except kennels
Riding stable            I1                       b5, c10, h1, j1, k21, m1,
                                                  r1, v, w, y
                                                  a2, b9, c2, g, j1, k23, l3,
Shopping area            C3                       m3, n1, o, p, s, t, u1, v,
                                                  y
Stadium/coliseum         I1                       b7, c2, j1, k24, l2, m2,
                                                  n1, p, s, t, u1, v, y
Truck freight terminal   I1                       c1, e, j1, k25, l4, n2, p,
                                                  r1, s, t, v, w, y
Tourist home or motel    C1, C2, and I1           b1, c1, f1, h1, k26, r1, v,
                                                  y
Notes:
For requirements, refer to Figure 9A in division (J) below.
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-9)
   (J)   Figure 9A; Requirement designations and requirements. Use of # symbol
in this figure indicates that the requirements of the district apply to the
special exception where located.
 
a. Classification of permitted use
1. Light industrial
2. Local business
b. Minimum lot area
1.  #
2.  1,500 sq. ft.
3.  110 sq. ft. per child
4.  24,000 sq. ft.
5.  20,000 sq. ft. plus 5,000 sq. ft. per horse over four horses
6.  1 acre
7.  5 acres
8.  5 acres plus 4,000 sq. ft. per mobile home stand
9.  6 acres
10. 20 acres
11. 40 acres
12. 80 acres
13. 320 acres
14. Two times requirements for single-family dwellings
c. Minimum yards (feet)
   Front Side (each)                                       Rear
1.  #     #                                                 #
2.  #     50                                                50
3.  #     10                                                30
4.  #     40                                                40
5.  #     -                                                 -
6.  100   40                                                40
7.  100   Abutting residential = 75 Abutting other use = 35 -
8.  #     20                                                #
9.  150   150                                               150
10. 100   100                                               100
11. 300   300                                               300
 
d. Building setback from center line of interior road (feet)
1. 40
2. 50
3. 85
 
e. Use not permitted closer than 300 feet to a residential district
 
f. Minimum gross floor area of principal building in square feet
1. #
2. Over 1,000
3. Determined by number of children to be accommodated
4. Two times single-family dwellings
 
g. Plan of landscape development to be submitted with application
 
h. Maximum height of structure (feet)
1. #
2. As required by appropriate state or federal agency
3. Same as light industry
4. 45
5. 70
i. Fence
i. Fence
1. Six-foot chain link where accessible to the public
2. Six-foot chain link when located at ground level
3. Four-foot chain link around play area
4. Eight-foot solid wall or solid painted fence
5. Four-foot chain link in residential
6. Eight-foot painted board fence
7. Adequate to protect abutting use
8. Six-foot chain link
9. Six-foot painted solid board along streets for refuse dumps
 
j. Screen planting where abutting residential use (tight screen effective at
all times)
1. Six feet high by six feet wide
2. Twenty-five feet high abutting residential use or district
3. Eight feet high by six feet wide
4. Adequate screen to hide power substation from street view
5. Six feet high along streets for refuse dump
k. Parking spaces
k. Parking spaces
1.  1 per 2 employees plus 1 per 4 seats in waiting room
2.  1 per 2 customers or members
3.  1 per 2 employees plus 3 per doctor
4.  1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 6 students
5.  30
6.  1 per 3 employees per shift
7.  1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 125 sq. ft. of sales area
8.  1 additional
9.  1 per 4 beds plus 1 per hospital vehicle
10. 1 per 2 employees on largest shift
11. 1 per 2 employees
12. 1 per 2 employees plus 1 per 5 children to be accommodated
13. 1 per 2 employees plus 1 per mobile home stand
14. 1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 500 sq. ft. of use area
15. 1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 10 inmates at estimated capacity
16. 1 per 3 employees plus 1 per driving tee
17. 1 per campsite and 1 per cabin
18. Telephone exchange; 1 per employee
19. 1 per employee per shift
20. 1 per 2 employees where headquartered
21. 1 per 5,000 sq. ft.
22. 1
23. 1 per 60 sq. ft. of sales area
24. 3 per 4 employees plus 1 per 4 seats
25. 1 per 2 employees plus 4 for customers
26. 1 per employee plus 1 per sleeping accommodation
27. 2
 
l. Distance of parking area from residential district in feet
1. 10
2. 25
3. 50
4. 100
5. 300
 
m. Number of loading and unloading berths (shall not face on bordering
highway)
1. 1
2. 2
3. Per development plan
4. 15,000 sq. ft. = 1; over 15,000 sq. ft. = 2
5. Up to 200 beds = 1; 200 to 500 beds = 2; over 500 beds = 3
6. Per Figure 6 in division (F) above
 
n. Distance of loading and unloading berths from residential district in feet
1. 50
2. 100
3. 300
 
o. Plat approved by the Commission to be submitted with the application
 
p. Development plan to be submitted with the application
 
q. Covenant by owners to perpetuate maintenance and approve future improvements
 
r. Maximum number of principal entrances from major thoroughfare
1. 1
2. 2
 
s. Acceptable relationship to major thoroughfares
 
t. Thoroughfares must be adequate to carry additional traffic engendered by use
 
u. Other authority approval required
1. State Board of Health
2. State Aeronautics Commission
3. Planning Act; § 58
4. State Department of Environmental Management
 
v. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor artificial lighting shall be approved
by the Commission
 
w. Disposal of liquid and other wastes shall meet the approval of the state’s
Department of Environmental Management
 
x. No sales, dead storage, repair work, or dismantling on the lot
 
y. No parking in the front yard, except as provided in section 15
 
z. Except for approved exits and entrances, a masonry wall four feet in height
and six inches thick may be erected at the required front line of building, and
may be required along boundaries of parking area as determined by the
Commission for the protection of residentially zoned or use property
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-10)
   (K)   Figure 10; Improvement location permit fees.
Above-Ground and In-Ground Pool
Above-Ground and In-Ground Pool
Above-ground pool                  $75
In-ground pool                     $150
Pool fence                         $50
Accessory Buildings-Alterations, Repairs, or Remodels to Accessory Structures
and Detached Garage
Exterior                           $65
Interior                           $85
Accessory Buildings, Detached Garages, New Construction, and Additions
80 sq. ft. to 1,300 sq. ft.        $100
1,301 sq. ft. to 2,399 sq. ft.     $150
2,400 sq. ft. and larger           $200
Demolition                         $75
Commercial, Industrial, and Non-residential Uses
Primary structure use is non-residential. This fee structure includes
structures used for Use Variances and Permanent Use Variances as granted by
the Board of Zoning Appeals
                                   Base fee $250, plus $0.25 per sq. ft.
                                   Maximum $10,000 for the ground floor
Additions                          elevation
                                   Maximum $5,000 for every floor above and
                                   below ground level
Alterations, repairs, and remodels Base fee $200 plus $0.25 per sq. ft.
                                   Maximum $10,000
Curb-cut                           $200
Demolition permit                  $125
                                   Base fee $800, plus $0.25 per sq. ft.
                                   Maximum $10,000 for the ground floor
New construction                   elevation
                                   Maximum $5,000 for every floor above and
                                   below ground level
Parking lot                        $450
Electrical
Meter reset                        $25
Temporary service, box change, amp $75
upgrade
Fencing
Fence                              $50
Multi-Family Residential: Additions
Additions                          $500 per unit, plus $0.25 per sq. ft.
Multi-Family Residential: New Construction
New construction                   $750 per unit, plus $0.25 per sq. ft.
New Construction
All required inspections           $25 per inspection each inspection charged
                                   separately
Electrical fee                     $300 flat fee
Mechanical fee                     $300 flat fee
Plumbing fee                       $300 flat fee $4 per fixture
Single-Family Residential and Two-Family Additions and Remodeling
Fees include square footage for living area, bonus room, attached garage
Demolition                         $75
Enclosed frame porch               $200
One- and two-family residential    Base Fee $250, plus $0.25 per sq. ft.
Open deck                          $75
Open frame porch enclosure         $100
Single-Family Residential and Two-Family New Construction
Fees include square footage for living area, bonus room, attached garage
Driveway                           $150, plus $0.25 per sq. ft.
Electrical                         $200
Mechanical; HVAC                   $200
One- and two-family residential    Base Fee $600, plus $0.25 per sq. ft.
Plumbing                           $200, $4 per fixture
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-11)
   (L)   Figures 10A; Improvement location permit fees for signs and
miscellaneous fees.
 
Improvement Location Fees for Signs
Total Square Foot Area Fee
6–31                 $0.25/sq. ft.
32–137               $0.30/sq. ft.
138–255              $0.32/sq. ft.
256 and over           $0.33/sq. ft.
 
Miscellaneous Fees
Administrative fee of all signs $10
Banners and flags               $25
Political sign removal bond     $100
Political signs                 $0
Portable sign                   $5
 
   (M)   Figure 10.5A; Permitted signs by type and zoning district.
Sign Type R1 R2 R3 C1 C2 C3 RM H LI Got. /Inst .a
Sign Type        R1 R2 R3 C1 C2 C3 RM H LI Got. /Inst .a
Building
Banner           N  N  N  S  S  S  N    S  S
Building markerc P  P  P  P  P  P  P    P  P
Canopy           N  N  N  S  S  S  N    S  N
Identificationd  P  P  P  P  P  P  P    P  P
Incidentale      N  N  Pf P  P  P  Pf   P  Pf
Marqueeg         N  N  N  S  S  S  N    N  N
Projectingg      N  N  N  S  S  S  N    S  N
Residentialh     P  P  P  N  N  N  P    N  N
Roof             N  N  N  S  N  N  N    N  N
Roof, integral   N  N  N  S  S  S  N    N  N
Suspended        N  N  N  P  N  N  N    N  P
Temporary        N  N  N  S  S  S  N    S  N
Wall             N  N  N  S  S  S  N    S  N
Window           N  N  N  S  S  S  N    N  N
Freestanding
Incidentalc      N  N  Pd Pd P  P  Pd   P  Pd
Other            N  N  S  S  S  S  S    S  S
Residentialb     P  P  P  N  N  N  P    N  N
Miscellaneous
Banner           N  N  N  S  S  S  N    N  N
Flag             P  P  P  P  P  P  P    P  P
Portable         N  N  N  Sj Sj N  N    N  N
Notes:
P = Allowed without sign permit
S = Allowed only with sign permit
N = Not allowed
a. This column does not represent a zoning district. It applies to
institutional uses permitted under the zoning ordinances in
residential zoning districts. Such uses may include, but are not
necessarily limited to, churches, schools, funeral homes, and
cemeteries.
b. No commercial message allowed on sign, except for a commercial
message drawing attention to an activity legally offered on the
premises.
c. No commercial messages of any kind allowed on sign if such message
is legible from any location off the zone lot on which the sign is
located.
d. Only address and name of occupant allowed on sign.
e. May include only building name, date of construction, or historical
data on historic site; must be cut or etched into masonry, bronze, or
similar material.
f. No commercial message of any kind allowed on sign.
g. If such sign is suspended or projects above a public right-of-way,
the issuance and continuation of a sign permit shall be conditioned on
the sign owner obtaining and maintaining in force liability insurance
for such sign in such form and such amount as the Commissioner may
reasonably from time to time determine, provided that such liability
insurance shall be at least $500,000 per occurrence per sign.
h. The conditions of divisions (M) through (R) apply.
i. Flags of the United States, the state, the town, foreign nations
having diplomatic relations with the United States, and any other flag
adopted or sanctioned by an elected legislative body of competent
jurisdiction, provided that such a flag shall not exceed 60 square
feet in area and shall not be flown from a pole the top of which is
more than 40 feet in height. These flags must be flown in accordance
with protocol established by the Congress of the United States for the
Stars and Stripes. Any flag not meeting any one or more of these
conditions shall be considered a banner sign and shall be subject to
regulation as such.
j. Permitted on the same terms as a temporary sign, in accordance with
divisions (M) through (R), except that it may be freestanding.
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-12)
   (N)   Figure 10.5B; Maximum total sign area per zone lot by zoning district.
 
                           R1 R2 R3  C1   C2     C3   RM H LI  Govt./Inst .a
Maximum number of total    8  8  200 800  1,00 0 20 0 200  400 100
square feet
Percentage of ground floor NA NA NA  10 % 8%     6 %  NA   2%  NA
area of principal building
Square feet of signage per
linear foot of street      NA NA 0.5 6    4      3    0.5  NA  0.5
frontage
Notes:
The maximum total area of all signs on a zone lot except incidental,
building marker, and identification signs, and flagsb shall not exceed the
lesser of the above.
a. Same as (a.) under Figure 10.5A in division (M) above.
b. Same as (i.) under Figure 10.5A in division (M) above.
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-12)
   (O)   Figure 10.5C; Number, dimensions, and location of individual signs by
zoning district.
Sign Type R1 R2 R3 C1 C2 C3 RM H LI Govt./Inst .a
Sign Type  R1  R2 R3    C1    C2        C3        RM H      LI        Govt./
                                                                      Inst .a
Building
Area (max. 2   2  2     NA    NA        NA        NA        NA        10
sq. ft.)
Wall area  N A NA NA    10 %  20 %      15 %      NA        5%        NA
(percent)e
Freestanding
Area (sq.  6   6  12    40    160       80        12        80        40
ft.)
Height     5   5  5     12    36        24b       5         12        12
(ft.)
Number
permitted         1 per 1 per
per feet   N A NA 200   100   1 per 200 1 per 200 1 per 200 1 per 200 NA
of street
frontaged
Number
permitted  1   1  NA    NA    NA        NA        NA        NA        1
per zone
lot
Setback    2   2  2     2     10        5b        2         10        5
(sq. ft.)c
Notes:
Individual signs shall not exceed the applicable maximum number, dimensions,
or setbacks shown on this table and on Figure 10.5D in division (P) below.
a. Same as (a.) under Figure 10.5A in division (M) above.
b. Maximum sign height is 24 feet, and minimum setback is five feet; however,
in no case shall the actual sign height exceed the actual sign setback from
the adjacent lot that is zoned and used for residential purposes. For
example, if the sign is set back seven feet from such a lot, it may be no
more than seven feet high.
c. In addition to the setback requirements on this table, signs shall be
located such that there is at every street intersection a clear view between
heights of three feet and ten feet in a triangle formed by the corner and
points on the curb 30 feet from the intersection or entranceway.
d. Lots fronting on two or more streets are allowed the permitted signage for
each street frontage, but signage cannot be accumulated and used on one
street in excess of that allowed for lots with only one street frontage.
e. The percentage figure here shall mean the percentage of the area of the
wall of which such sign is a part or to which each such sign is most nearly
parallel.
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-12)
   (P)   Figure 10.5D; Number and dimensions of certain individual signs by
sign type.
                                  Vertical Clearance
 Number Allowed Maximum Sign Area From Sidewalk or Private From Public Street
                                  Drive or Parking
                                                   Vertical Clearance
                                                   From Sidewalk or From Public
                Number Allowed   Maximum Sign Area Private Drive or Street
                                                   Parking
Building
Banner          NA               NA                9 ft.            12 ft.
Building marker 1 per building   4 sq. ft.         NA               NA
Canopy          1 per building   25% of vertical   9 ft.            12 ft.
                                 surface of canopy
Identificatio n 1 per building   NA                NA               NA
Incidental      NA               NA                NA               NA
Marquee         1 per building   NA                9 ft.            NA
Projecting* *   1 per building   8 sq. ft.         9 ft.            NA
Residential     1 per zone lot   NA                NA               NA
Roof            1 per principal  NA                NA               NA
                building
Roof, integral  2 per principal  NA                NA               NA
                building
Suspended       1 per entrance   NA                9 ft.            NA
Temporary       See §           NA                NA               NA
                156.232
Wall            NA               NA                NA               NA
Window          NA               25%of total       NA               NA
                                 window area
Freestanding
Residential,    See Figure 10.5C See Figure 10.5C
other, and      in division (O)  in division (O)   NA               NA
incidental      above            above
Miscellaneous
Banner          NA               NA                9 ft.            12 ft.
Flag            NA               60 sq. ft.        9 ft.            12 ft.
Portable        1 where alloweda 20 sq. ft.        NA               NA
Notes:
* No sign shall exceed any applicable maximum numbers or dimensions, or
encroach on any applicable minimum.
a. Permitted on the same terms as a temporary sign, in accordance with
divisions (M) through (R), except that it may be freestanding.
** Downtown businesses on Main Street may install one projecting sign attached
to the building in conformance with the design guidelines adopted by the town.
The signs shall be uniform in size, shape, printing, and suspension. All signs
shall conform with the Palma study performed by the town.
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-12)
   (Q)   Figure 10.5D; Number and dimensions of certain individual signs by
sign type.
                                   Vertical Clearance
 Number Allowed Maximum Sign Area From Sidewalk or Private From Public Street
                                   Drive or Parking
                                                   Vertical Clearance
                                                   From Sidewalk or From Public
               Number Allowed   Maximum Sign Area Private Drive or Street
                                                   Parking
Building
Banner          NA               NA                9 ft.            12 ft.
Building marker 1 per building   4 sq. ft.         NA               NA
Canopy          1 per building   25% of vertical   9 ft.            12 ft.
                                 surface of canopy
Identificatio n 1 per building   NA                NA               NA
Incidental      NA               NA                NA               NA
Marquee         1 per building   NA                9 ft.            NA
Projecting* *   1 per building   8 sq. ft.         9 ft.            NA
Residential     1 per zone lot   NA                NA               NA
Roof            1 per principal  NA                NA               NA
                building
Roof, integral  2 per principal  NA                NA               NA
                building
Suspended       1 per entrance   NA                9 ft.            NA
Temporary       See §           NA                NA               NA
                156.232
Wall            NA               NA                NA               NA
Window          NA               25% of total      NA               NA
                                 window area
Freestanding
Residential,    See Figure 10.5C See Figure 10.5C
other, and      in division (O)  in division (O)   NA               NA
incidental      above            above
Miscellaneous
Banner          NA               NA                9 ft.            12 ft.
Flag            NA               60 sq. ft.        9 ft.            12 ft.
Portable        1 where alloweda 20 sq. ft.        NA               NA
Notes:
* No sign shall exceed any applicable maximum numbers or dimensions, or
encroach on any applicable minimum.
a. Permitted on the same terms as a temporary sign, in accordance with
divisions (M) through (R), except that it may be freestanding.
** Downtown businesses on Main Street may install one projecting sign attached
to the building in conformance with the design guidelines adopted by the town.
The signs shall be uniform in size, shape, printing, and suspension. All sign
shall conform with the Palma study performed by the town.
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-12)
   (R)   Figure 10.5E; Permitted sign characteristics by zoning district.
 
                                    R1 R2 R3 C1 C2 C3 RM H LI Govt. /Inst. a
Animated                            N  N  N  S  N  N  N    N  N
Changeable copy                     N  N  N  S  S  S  N    N  P
Illumination, exposed bulbs or neon N  N  N  S  N  N  N    N  N
Illumination, external              N  N  N  S  S  S  P    S  Pb
Illumination, internal              N  N  N  S  S  S  N    S  Pb
Notes:
P = Allowed without sign permit
S = Allowed only with sign permit
N = Not allowed
a. Same as (a.) under Figure 10.5A
b. No direct light or significant glare from the sign shall be cast onto any
adjacent zone lot and used for residential purposes.
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13-12)
(Ord. 1996-220-PC-2, passed 2-20-1996; Ord. 5-4-2004, passed 5-2-2004; Ord.
2012-07-17, passed 7-17-2012; Ord. 2014-05-20A, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 2014-09-
16, passed 9-16-2014; Ord. 2023-08-15-2, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 156.005 SPECIFICATION DIAGRAMS AND DRAWINGS.
(Prior Code, App. A, App. C )
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 156.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established the Plan Commission for the town, pursuant to
the authority of I.C. 36-7-4-202.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3-1)
§ 156.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The town’s Board of Zoning Appeals.
   BUFFER ZONE. The contiguous, unincorporated areas designated by the
Commission, that bear a reasonable relation to the development of the town.
   COMMISSION. The Plan Commission of the town.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The COMPREHENSIVE LONG RANGE PLANNING GUIDE as defined
by §
156.001.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3-2)
§ 156.017 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of seven members as follows.
      (1)   The Council shall appoint three persons in the town government.
      (2)   The President of the Council shall appoint four citizens, of which
no more than two shall be members of the same political party.
   (B)   Each citizen member shall be appointed because of his or her knowledge
and experience in community affairs, awareness of the social, economic,
agricultural, commercial, industrial problems, and matters of the town, and
interest in the development and integration of the town. A citizen member shall
not hold other elective or appointive offices in municipal, county, or state
government.
   (C)   The Council shall appoint one member of the Commission to serve as an
advisory member to the county’s Plan Commission.
   (D)   The Commission shall appoint one of its members to serve on the
Technical Advisory Committee.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3-3)
§ 156.018 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be four
years, and terms shall expire on the first Monday of January.
   (B)   The term of office of a member who is appointed from the membership of
the Council is coextensive with the member’s term on the Council, unless the
Council, at its first regular meeting in any year, appoints another of its
members to serve as its appointment to the Commission.
   (C)   A member serves until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
   (D)   In the event of a vacancy on the Commission, the Council shall appoint
a member for the unexpired term of the vacating member.
   (E)   A member who misses three consecutive regular meetings of the
Commission, not including disqualifications for conflict of interest, shall be
treated as if he or she has resigned, unless the appointing authority reaffirms
the appointment.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3-4)
§ 156.019 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A member of the Commission may not participate in a hearing or decision of
the Commission concerning a matter in which such member has a direct or
indirect financial interest. The Commission Secretary shall enter in the
Commission minutes and record the fact of any such disqualification.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3-5)
§ 156.020 TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Membership. A Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) shall be established
by the Council. The Technical Advisory Committee shall be advisory to the Plan
Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, and the Council, and shall be composed
of the following members:
      (1)   The Public Works Director;
      (2)   The Building Commissioner;
      (3)   The Town Attorney; and
      (4)   (a)   A representative from each of the following bodies:
            1.   The Council;
            2.   The Plan Commission;
            3.   The Board of Zoning Appeals;
            4.   The Stormwater Management Board;
            5.   The Town Marshal;
            6.   The Chief of the Fire Department; and
            7.   The Redevelopment Commission.
         (b)   Representative appointments shall be made by the respective body
for one-year terms, without reference to political affiliation; and
representative members may be removed or replaced by the respective appointing
body at any time for any reason. No member shall be the representative of more
than one appointing body.
   (B)   Duties. The duties of the Technical Advisory Committee shall include:
      (1)   Receive and review all proposed or preliminary plans and plats of
proposed subdivisions for technical compliance with the requirements of the
Subdivision Control Ordinance (I.C. 2-3-1 et seq.), including compliance with
design standards, required land improvements, content of preliminary plans,
erosion control, and stormwater drainage control;
      (2)   Propose and recommend to the subdividers changes to the preliminary
plans prior to consideration thereof by the Plan Commission;
      (3)   Submit a report of its findings, conclusions, and recommendations
to the Plan Commission prior to or at the meeting of the Plan Commission at
which the application for preliminary plan approval is to be considered;
      (4)   The TAC may include in its report recommendations concerning
conditions upon which preliminary approval should be granted, and/or technical
aspects of the Subdivision Control Ordinance which should be waived or
modified, and the reasons therefor;
      (5)   Receive and review all applications for vacations of public streets
and ways to determine the effect upon the comprehensive plan, the development
and maintenance of public utilities, improvements, and easements, and public
safety and welfare. The TAC shall report its findings, conclusions, and
recommendations to the Council at or prior to its public hearing thereon;
      (6)   Receive and review all signage plans to determine technical
compliance with the town’s Comprehensive Sign Ordinance; and
      (7)   Investigate and report its findings and recommendations to the
Board of Zoning Appeals regarding technical aspects of any application for use
variance, variance from developmental standards, or special exception. Said
reports shall specifically address the impact of the proposed variance or
special exception upon the adjacent property.
   (C)   Meetings. All meetings of the Technical Advisory Committee shall be
open public meetings in accordance with state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3-7) (Ord. 2016-03-22, passed 3-22-2016; Ord. 2016-04-19,
passed 4-19-2016)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 156.035 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established the Board of Zoning Appeals for the town
pursuant to I.C. 37-7-4-901.5.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4-1)
§ 156.036 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five members as follows:
      (1)   Three citizen members appointed by the President of the Council, of
whom one must be a member of the Plan Commission and two must not be members of
the Plan Commission;
      (2)   One citizen member appointed by the Council, who must not be a
member of the Plan Commission; and
      (3)   One member appointed by the Plan Commission from the Plan
Commission’s membership, who must be a county agricultural agent or a citizen
member of the Plan Commission other than the member appointed under division
(A)(1) above.
   (B)   None of the members may hold other elective or appointed office except
as permitted in this section.
   (C)   The term of office of the members of the Board shall be four years,
and the term shall expire on the first Monday in January. Each member shall
serve until a successor is appointed and qualified. Members shall be eligible
for reappointment.
   (D)   The appointing authority may remove a member from the Board for cause
by mailing notice of removal, along with the written reasons therefor, to the
member’s residence. A member who is removed may, within 30 days after receiving
such notice, appeal the removal to the County Circuit or Superior Court.
   (E)   If a vacancy on the Board occurs, the appointing authority shall
appoint a member for the unexpired term of the vacating member. In addition,
the appointing authority may appoint an alternate member to participate with
the Board in any hearing or decision in which the regular member it has
appointed has a disqualification under §
156.037 or is unavailable to participate in the hearing or decision. An
alternate member shall have all the powers and duties of a regular member while
participating in the hearing or decision.
   (F)   A member who misses three consecutive regular meetings of the Board,
without disqualification for conflict of interest, may be treated as if the
member had resigned.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4-2)
§ 156.037 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A member of the Board may not participate in a hearing or decision of the
Board concerning a matter in which the member has a direct or indirect
financial interest. The Board shall enter into its records the fact that its
member has such a disqualification, and the name of the alternate member, if
any, appointed in place of the disqualified member.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4-3)
§ 156.038 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Board shall adopt rules as it deems necessary to effectuate the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (A)   The Board shall fix reasonable times for public hearings and all
meetings and hearings shall be conducted in compliance with I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et
seq. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings and record the vote on all
actions taken. All minutes shall be filed in the office of the Board, and are
public records. The Board shall, in all cases heard, make written findings of
fact as required by state law.
   (B)   (1)   Public notice in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1-2 and 5-3-1-4, and
due notice to interested parties shall be given at least ten days before the
date set for the public hearing.
      (2)   The applicant shall be required to assume the cost of the public
notice and individual notice to interested parties. At the public hearing, each
party may appear in person, by agent, or by attorney.
   (C)   Interested parties shall include all property owners as listed in the
tax records of the office of the County Auditor, owning property within 300
feet of any portion of the property which is the subject of the appeal or
application.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4-4)
§ 156.039 USE VARIANCE.
   A variance of use from the terms of this chapter shall be approved only upon
a determination of the Board, in writing, following a public hearing, that:
   (A)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, or general welfare of the community;
   (B)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in the
variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
   (C)   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to the
property involved;
   (D)   The strict application of the terms of the ordinance will constitute
an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the variance is
sought; and
   (E)   The approval does not substantially interfere with the comprehensive
plan of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4-6)
§ 156.040 VARIANCE FROM DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The Board shall approve an application for a variance from the developmental
standards contained in this chapter only upon a determination in writing,
following a public hearing, that:
   (A)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, or general welfare of the community;
   (B)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in the
variance, will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner; and
   (C)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will result in
practical difficulties in the use of the property.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4-7)
§ 156.041 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS AND CONTINGENT USES.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for an improvement location permit for
a special exception or contingent use as listed in Figures 7 through 9 in §
156.004, the Building Department shall submit the application to the TAC.
   (B)   The TAC shall conduct a review and investigation as to whether:
      (1)   The proposed special exception or contingent use is located in a
district in which such use is permitted;
      (2)   The requirements set forth in §
156.004 will be met; and/or
      (3)   It is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and intent of reasonable
conditions should be imposed as a part of its approval.
   (C)   The TAC shall report its findings and recommendations to the Board of
Zoning Appeals prior to the public hearing on the application.
   (D)   Following the public hearing, the Board shall order the Building
Commissioner to issue an improvement location permit for special exception or
contingent use upon finding that:
      (1)   The proposed special exception or contingent use is to be located
in a district in which such use is permitted; and
      (2)   The requirements set forth in §
156.004 will be met.
   (E)   The Board may impose reasonable conditions as a part of its approval,
and may waive any of the requirements set forth in §
156.004 which it finds to be inapplicable to the use being sought.
   (F)   In the event an improvement location permit is sought for a special
exception or contingent use not specifically stated or implied in §
156.004, the TAC shall report to the Plan Commission its findings concerning an
amendment to §
156.004, including the effect of such an amendment upon the comprehensive plan
and, if favorable, the recommendation concerning the identification of the use,
the district(s) in which the use may be permitted, and the requirements to be
placed upon the use. The Plan Commission, upon consideration of the findings
and recommendations of the TAC, may forward to the Council any proposed
amendments to the zoning ordinances codified herein for its consideration.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4-8)
§ 156.042 REVIEW.
   (A)   Each decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be subject to
review by certiorari. Each person aggrieved by a decision of the Board by
present, to the County Circuit or Superior Court, a verified petition setting
forth that decision is illegal in whole or in part, and specifying the grounds
of the illegality.
   (B)   The person shall present the petition to the court within 30 days
after the date of the Board decision. All appeals shall comply with I.C. 36-7-
4-1000 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4-11)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 156.055 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to state statutes, there is hereby created the town’s Economic
Development Commission (EDC).
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1-1)
§ 156.056 MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS.
   (A)   The EDC shall consist of three members, to be appointed as follows:
      (1)   One member appointed by the President of the Council;
      (2)   One member appointed by the Council; and
      (3)   One member appointed by the County Council.
   (B)   The members shall take office upon appointment for terms of four
years.
   (C)   Members shall receive no salary but shall be entitled to reimbursement
for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1-2)
§ 156.057 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All three members of the EDC must be residents of Boone Township in
the county, and two of whom must be residents of the town.
   (B)   If any member shall cease to qualify, the appointment thereof shall
immediately terminate, with the vacancy for the unexpired term to be filled by
the appointing authority that appointed the terminated member.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1-3)
§ 156.058 AUTHORITY AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The EDC is authorized to adopt such by-laws, rules, and regulations as
it may deem necessary for the proper conduct of its proceedings, the
fulfillment of its duties, and the safeguarding of the funds placed in its
custody.
   (B)   The EDC shall have all authority and powers granted by the Municipal
Economic Development Act of 1965 as heretofore or hereafter amended by the
General Assembly of the state.
   (C)   The EDC shall conduct regular or special meetings at such times as it
may determine.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1-4)
BUILDING; BUILDING CODE
§ 156.070 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   (1)   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer, being marked and designated as the International
Building Code, 2012 edition, including appendix chapters:
         (a)   675 I.A.C. 12-1.1, General Provisions, amended 9-26-2006;
         (b)   675 I.A.C. 16-1.4, State Plumbing Code, 2012 Edition, effective
12-24-2012;
         (c)   675 I.A.C. 17-1.8, State Electrical Code, 2009 Edition (NFPA 70-
2008), effective 8-26-2009.
         (d)   675 I.A.C. 18-1.6, State Mechanical Code, 2012 Edition (IMC,
2012 Edition, 1st printing) effective 12-1-2014;
         (e)   675 I.A.C. 19-4, State Energy Conservation Code, 2010 (ASHRAE
90.1, 2007 edition, as amended), effective 5-6-2010;
         (f)   675 I.A.C. 22-2.5, State Fire Code, 2014 Edition, (Pub. L. No.
155 5-1-202) effective 12-1-2014;
         (g)   675 I.A.C. 25-3, State Fuel Gas Code, 2014 Edition, (IFGC, 2012
edition, 2nd printing) effective 12-1-2014;
      (2)   See International Building Code § 101.2.1, 2012 edition, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Building Code of the town, for regulating and governing the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by providing the
standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary, and fit for
occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use and the demolition of such structures as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions, and terms of said Building Code on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this legislation, with the additions, insertions, deletions, and
changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1: Town of Hebron, Porter County, Indiana;
      (2)   Section 1612.3: Town of Hebron, Porter County, Indiana;
      (3)   Section 1612.3: February 19, 2013; and
      (4)   Section 3412.2: February 19, 2013.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5-1) (Ord. 2013-04-16, passed 2-19-2013; Ord. 2017-02-21A,
passed 2-21-2017)
§ 156.071 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, or add to any building
or structure within the town, or cause the same to be done, nor shall any
person alter, improve, convert, move, remove, or demolish any building or
structure, or any portion thereof, wherein the structural integrity of the
building or structure may be impaired, without first obtaining an application
for an improvement location permit from the Building Department for each such
building or structure.
      (2)   Buildings or structures moved into or within the town shall require
an improvement location permit for each such building or structure moved, and
such buildings or structures shall comply with all the provisions of this
chapter as it applies to new buildings or structures.
      (3)   Further, that an improvement location permit to move a building or
structure within the town shall not be construed as a permit to set the
building or structure on a new foundation in a new location within the town.
   (B)   Application. To obtain an improvement location permit, the applicant
must:
      (1)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which the application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by lot,
block, tract, street address, or similar description which will readily
identify and definitively locate the proposed building, work, or easement;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   State the valuation of the proposed work and improvements;
      (5)   Submit complete plans and specifications as required in this
division (B);
      (6)   Submit a certificate of compliance as issued by the Administrative
Building Council for
any use subject to the provisions of §§
156.125,
156.126,
156.140,
156.141,
156.155 through
156.157,
156.170 through
156.179,
156.190,
156.191, and
156.205 through
156.208;
      (7)   Provide such other information as may be reasonably required by the
Building Commissioner; and
      (8)   Sign the application or authorize another person to do so.
   (C)   Plans and specifications; exceptions. With each application for an
improvement location permit, and when required by the Building Commissioner for
the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, a complete set of
plans and specifications describing and detailing the proposed work shall be
submitted with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Private garages, carports, sheds, and agricultural buildings when
used as accessory buildings less than 200 square feet in area;
      (2)   Accessory uses, which shall include, but not be limited to, fences,
public sidewalks, driveways, swimming pools, retaining walls, and other small
and inconsequential work; and
      (3)   Industrialized building systems, such as mobile homes and
manufactured buildings bearing the insignia of acceptance issued by the
Administrative Building Council of the state or the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development.
   (D)   Information on plans and specifications. Plans may be drawn to scale
or submitted as sketches not drawn to scale, but in either case all important
dimensions shall be shown thereon. Plans and specifications shall be of
sufficient clarity as to indicate the nature and extent of the proposed work,
and that the site and all work shall conform to the requirements and provisions
of this chapter, and all other ordinances and codes which are now enacted or
adopted by the Council. Plans and specifications shall include:
      (1)   A plot plan showing each proposed and existing building and/or
structure on the property;
      (2)   Length and width of entrances to and exits from the property, when
pertinent to the proposed work; and
      (3)   All adjacent and adjoining roads, highways, streets, places, or
alleys, when pertinent to the proposed work.
   (E) Issuance of permits. Improvement location permits shall be issued to the
applicant upon satisfaction of the requirements of divisions (A) through (D)
above, and upon the authorization and approval of the Building Commissioner.
      (1)   The application for an improvement location permit filed by or on
behalf of any person, together with the plans, specifications, and pertinent
documents, shall be reviewed by the Building Commissioner for conformity with
all the provisions of this chapter. The Building Commissioner may submit the
plans and specifications submitted with the application to the Technical
Advisory Committee for more detailed review.
      (2)   Within ten days from the date on which all information and
documentation required by this chapter and by the Building Commissioner is
submitted, or within 30 days in the event the application is submitted for
review by the Technical Advisory Committee, the Building Commissioner shall
take the following action:
         (a)   Approve the application and issue the permit;
         (b)   Approve the application with reasonable conditions imposed,
whereupon the permit shall be issued upon the execution of a written agreement
to the conditions;
         (c)   Deny the application by providing written notice to the
applicant, including the reasons for the denial; or
         (d)   Require additional information or documentation.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner may require the location of a proposed
building, structure, exit, or entrance to be shown on the site plan; or may
require the location of new exits or entrances not shown on the site plan to be
shown before issuing an improvement location permit, when such action is
necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of this chapter.
      (4)   The Building Commissioner may issue a permit for the construction
of a part of a building or structure before the entire and completed plans and
specifications for the entire building or structure have been submitted and
approved, provided that the Building Commissioner is satisfied that all the
pertinent requirements of this chapter are to be met. Such conditional permits
may be issued to an applicant who has a pending application for a variance. Any
applicant issued such a conditional permit, however, shall commence work at his
or her own risk in the event the variance application is denied or a permit is
otherwise not issued.
      (5)   Upon issuance of an improvement location permit, the plans and
specifications shall not be changed, modified, or altered in any manner without
prior approval from the Building Commissioner, and all work performed shall
comply with the plans and specifications.
      (6)   No improvement location permit shall be required with the exception
of interior utility work (i.e., plumbing, electrical, or HVAC, and the like),
for any outside or inside painting or decorating, or any other cosmetic repair
or maintenance done on a building or structure; nor shall a permit be required
for any interior remodeling, enlargement, or alteration, so long as the
structural integrity of the building is unimpaired. The installation of a new
storefront, or any other work which materially alters the configuration of a
building or structure shall not be construed as cosmetic maintenance.
   (F)   Validity. Possession of an application for an improvement location
permit and certificate of occupancy by any person shall not be construed as a
permit to proceed with the work described in the application. The issuance of
an improvement location permit, or the approval of plans and specifications,
shall not be construed as a permit for, or the approval of, any violation of
the provisions of this chapter, or any other law or regulation.
   (G)   Expiration. Every improvement location permit issued hereunder shall
expire:
      (1)   One year after the date of issuance;
      (2)   If the work authorized by the permit is not commenced within 120
days after the issuance of the permit; or
      (3)   If, after the work is commenced, it is suspended for any reason for
120 days.
   (H)   Reissuance of expired permit.
      (1)   Upon the expiration of an improvement location permit under
division (G) above, the permit may be reissued by the Building Department upon
application therefor, upon the payment of one-half the original permit fee,
provided that there are no changes in or deviations from the original plans and
specifications submitted.
      (2)   If a permit has expired under division (G) above for more than one
year, the permit may not be reissued, and an application for a new permit must
be submitted.
   (I)   Suspension or revocation. A permit issued under this section shall
constitute a mere revocable license or permit, and the Building Commissioner
may suspend or revoke a permit issued hereunder whenever such permit is
determined to have been issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect or
incomplete information supplied with the application, or in violation of any
ordinance, regulation, code, or statute, or for any other good cause. The
Building Commissioner shall state in writing the reasons for such suspension or
revocation, and provide copies thereof to the permit holder, the Plan
Commission, and the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (J)   Fees. A fee for each improvement location permit shall be paid to the
Executive Secretary, and shall be determined in accordance with the schedule of
fees established in Figure 10 of §
156.004. The valuation to be used in computing the permit fee shall be the
total value of all work, including painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing,
heating, air conditioning, elevators, driveways, and parking lots. Where work
for which a permit is required by this chapter is commenced without first
obtaining such permit, the fee as specified in Figure 10 of §
156.004 shall be doubled; but the payment of such double fee shall not relieve
the person from full compliance with the requirements of this chapter in the
execution of the work, nor from any of the penalties prescribed by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5-3) (Ord. 1994-5-17, passed 5-17-1994; Ord. 2014-09-16A,
passed 9-16-2014)
§ 156.072 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All building, construction, or work for which an improvement location
permit is required by this chapter shall be subject to inspection by the
Building Commissioner or other authorized agent of the Building Department. The
schedule of inspections shall be followed in all new construction, buildings,
or structures that have been moved into or within the town, remodeled
buildings, and all other structures wherein the structural integrity may be
affected, or wherein public health and safety may be affected. The general
contractor, or the permit holder or authorized agent thereof, shall be
responsible for notification to the Building Department of the readiness for
inspections.
   (B)   A record of the inspections performed shall be made a part of the on-
site permit card; and the permit holder, or agent thereof, shall post the card
in a conspicuous location on the front of the premises in such a manner as to
allow the Building Commissioner or other inspector to make the required entries
thereon regarding the inspection of the work. This card shall be maintained in
such manner by the permit holder until all inspections are completed and a
certificate of occupancy is issued.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner, or authorized representative thereof,
shall, upon notice from the permit holder or agent thereof, make the following
inspections, and shall either approve that portion of the construction
completed, or shall notify the permit holder or agent thereof, by reasonable
means of communication, of any failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or other applicable laws:
      (1)   Site and footing inspections. To be made after the trenches are
excavated and the forms erected. The site plan shall be checked at this time to
determine proper location of the structure or structures;
      (2)   Foundation inspections. To be made after the footings have been
poured and the foundation walls have been erected. Drain tile, where required,
shall be in place at this time;
      (3)   Framing, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, and rough-in
inspections. To be made after the roof, all framing, fire blocking, and bracing
are in place, and all plumbing, electrical, and HVAC systems are in place and
roughed in; and
      (4)   Final inspection. To be made after the building or work is
completed and ready for occupancy.
   (D)   The following categories of buildings or structures are exempted from
the foregoing schedule of inspections.
      (1)   Accessory buildings not used for human occupancy, including private
garages, carports, storage sheds, and agricultural buildings. Two inspections
shall be required: one to verify proper site location, and a final inspection.
      (2)   Small and unimportant work. One inspection shall be required to
verify proper site location. A reduction in the number of inspections shall not
relieve the owner or the builder from employing sound construction practices,
and the permit holder or agent thereof shall notify the Building Department
before proceeding with each phase of the work.
   (E)   In addition to the inspection schedule provided herein, the Building
Commissioner may make, or require to be made, other inspections of any work to
ascertain compliance with the provisions of this chapter and other applicable
laws.
   (F)   A re-inspection fee may be assessed in the following instances:
      (1)   In the event that a permit holder or agent thereof notifies the
Building Department of the readiness for an inspection, and an inspection is
performed and it determines that the portion of the work for which the
inspection is to be performed is not completed;
      (2)   When all corrections required during a previous inspection are not
completed;
      (3)   When the permit card is not properly posted at the work site;
      (4)   For failure to provide access on the date for which the inspection
is called for or scheduled; and
      (5)   When an inspection reveals that there has been a deviation from the
plans and specifications without prior approval by the Building Commissioner.
   (G)   (1)   The Building Commissioner shall not be obligated to anticipate
an inspection at any stage of the work.
      (2)   It is a requirement of this chapter that the permit holder or agent
thereof request an inspection, and grant the Building Commissioner or
authorized agent thereof a reasonable amount of time in which to make the
requested inspections.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5-4)
§ 156.073 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No building or structure intended for use or occupancy by humans as
dwellings, places of business, either commercial or industrial, places of
entertainment or recreation, or religious or educational buildings shall be
occupied or used until a certificate of occupancy therefor has been issued by
the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   A certificate of occupancy shall be applied for coincidentally with
the application for an improvement location permit.
   (C)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for the use and
occupancy of a portion or portions of a building or structure, with such
temporary certificates extending for a period of not more than 90 days. Such
temporary certificate may be renewed one time for an additional period of not
more than 90 days, when information available to the Building Department
demonstrates that reasonable progress toward completion has been made, and that
at least 25% of the work for which the improvement location permit was issued
has been completed.
      (3)   Such temporary certificate shall not be construed to alter the
respective rights, duties, or obligations of the applicant or the town; and
such temporary certificates shall include provisions designed to adequately
ensure the safety of the occupants.
   (D)   No change shall be made in the use of land, except agricultural, or in
the use or occupancy of any building or portion thereof, and no certificate
shall be issued to validate any such change, unless it is in conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be maintained on file
in the office of the Building Department, and copies of such certificates shall
be furnished upon request to any persons having a proprietary or tenancy
interest in the building or land affected.
   (F)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected,
altered, or repaired after the adoption of the ordinance codified herein shall
be issued unless such building or structure was erected, altered, or repaired
in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5-5)
§ 156.074 DEMOLITION OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   The work of demolishing any building or structure shall not be
commenced until the owner or agent thereof shall have demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Building Commissioner that all necessary precautions have
been taken to protect life, limb, and property, and an improvement location
permit has been issued.
   (B)   After the work of demolition is completed, the site shall be cleared
of all debris, and brought into conformity with the other lots in the same
district, according to the following.
      (1)   No part of the foundation of a demolished building or structure
shall remain above the grade level of the lot.
      (2)   If the building was in a residential district (R1 or R2), the site
shall be graded to at least four inches below grade, then brought to grade
level with an adequate amount of top soil, and the graded area sown with grass
seed.
      (3)   If the building or structure was in a commercial or industrial
district (C1, C2, C3, or I1), the site shall be brought to grade level with a
suitable material most nearly conforming to similar sites in the same district.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5-6) (Ord. 2014-09-16A, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 156.075 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall have the authority to administer and
enforce any and all ordinances and codes enacted or adopted now or hereafter by
the Council that relates to the matters addressed in this chapter.
   (B)   In the administration of this chapter, and other ordinances incident
thereto, the Building Department shall cooperate with, and coordinate its
activities with, all affected or related local, county, state, and federal
agencies, so as to prevent the unnecessary overlapping, duplication, and waste
in the administrative process.
   (C)   (1)   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the town, bring
actions in the County Circuit or Superior Courts for mandatory, declaratory,
and injunctive relief in the enforcement of this chapter, and all orders,
directions, conditions, certificates, permits, decisions, and agreements
relating thereto.
      (2)   In addition to any equitable relief sought, the Building
Commissioner may seek the imposition and recovery of any penalties provided for
in this chapter.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner, or authorized representative, shall have
the right to enter upon or into any building, structure, or premise upon
reasonable cause to believe such building, structure, or premise is unsafe or
otherwise in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Such entry shall be made at all reasonable times, provided that
when occupied, the Building Commissioner or authorized representative shall
first present proper credentials and identification and request permission to
enter; and when unoccupied, a reasonable effort first made to locate the owner
or other responsible persons to obtain permission to enter. In the event entry
is refused, the Building Commissioner shall have every recourse and remedy
provided by law to secure entry, and shall obtain the assistance of the Town
Marshal.
      (2)   No owner, occupant, or other person having charge, control, or care
of any building, structure, or premise shall fail or neglect, after proper
request be made as provided above, to promptly permit the entry therein or
thereon by the Building Commissioner or authorized representative, for the
purpose of inspection, examination, and investigation pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   Whenever any work is being performed contrary to the provisions of
this chapter, the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by serving
written notice upon any person so engaged or any person responsible for the
work; or the Building Commissioner may affix a notice of violation to the
building, structure, or premises, and provide a reasonable means of
communication as to the nature of the violation(s); and any such persons served
with such notice shall immediately stop such work until authorized to proceed
by the Building Commissioner.
   (F)   (1)   Whenever any building, structure, or land is being used contrary
to the provisions of this chapter, the Building Commissioner may order such use
discontinued, and the building, structure, land, or a portion thereof, vacated,
by notice served upon any person causing such use to occur or continue.
      (2)   Such person shall discontinue such use within ten days after
receipt of notice, or bring the structure or portion thereof into compliance
with the requirements of this chapter, provided however, §
156.074 shall be applicable in the case of an unsafe building.
   (G)   (1)   The Building Commissioner, or any agent, representative, or
employee charged with the enforcement and administration of this chapter,
acting in good faith, without malice, and in the discharge of his or her duties
on behalf of the town, shall not be liable to any person, and is relieved from
all personal liability for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as
a result of any such act, or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge
of said duties.
      (2)   Any claim made or suit brought against the Building Commissioner or
agent, representative, or employee of the Building Department as a result of
any act or omission in the enforcement and administration of this chapter,
shall be defended by the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5-7)
DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 156.090 DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Interpretation of boundaries. In determining the boundaries of
districts, and establishing regulations to each district, due and careful
consideration has been given to existing conditions, the character of buildings
erected in each district, the most desirable use for which the land in each
district may be adapted, and the conservation of property values throughout the
incorporated territory of the town. when uncertainty exists as to the exact
boundaries of any district as shown on the zone map, the following rules shall
apply.
      (1)   In subdivided area or where a district boundary divides a lot, the
exact location of the boundary shall be determined by use of the scale of zone
map.
      (2)   In the case of further uncertainty, the Board shall interpret the
extent of the zone map as to the location of the boundary in question.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1-1)
   (B)   Zone map.
      (1)   The town’s Zone Map of 2016 is hereby declared to be the official
zone map of the town, and all previous zoning maps are hereby declared to be
void.
      (2)   The cost of any changes to the town’s zone map shall be paid by the
person petitioning for the change. Changes shall be performed only by a
licensed surveyor.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1-2)
(Ord. 2021-04-20-2, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 156.091 GENERAL REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Vacated and filled areas. The following procedure relates to vacated
or filled areas.
      (1)   Whenever any street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way, or
other similar area is vacated by proper authority, the districts adjoining each
side of such street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way, waterway, or
similar areas shall be extended automatically to the center of such vacated
land; and all area included in the vacation shall then and henceforth be
subject to appropriate regulations of the extended zoning districts.
      (2)   Whenever any underwater or submerged area not shown in the zone map
as included in any district is filled as authorized by law, the districts
adjoining such filled-in area shall be extended automatically to include such
filled-in area; and such filled-in area shall then and henceforth be subject to
all appropriate regulations of the extended zoning districts.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-1)
   (B)   Use. No building or land shall be used, and no building or structure
shall be erected, constructed, or structurally altered which is arranged,
intended, or designed to be used for any purpose other than a use which is
permitted and specified within the district in which such building or land is
located.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-2)
   (C)   Height. No building or structure shall be erected, reconstructed, or
structurally altered to exceed in height the limits established and specified
for the use in the district in which such building or structure is located,
except as hereinafter provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-3)
   (D)   Yard, lot area, and building site. No building or structure shall be
erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered in any manner which will
encroach upon or reduce in any manner the yards, ground floor areas of
residential buildings, or lot coverage regulations established and specified
for the use in the district in which such building or structure is located. No
lot area shall be so reduced, diminished, or maintained such that the yards,
open space, or total lot area shall be less than that specified for the use in
the district in which the lot is located.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-4)
   (E)   Lots. Every building shall be located on a lot. In no event shall
there be more than one principal building used for residential purposes and its
accessory buildings located on a single lot.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-5)
   (F)   Parking spaces and loading and unloading berths. Every building and
every use shall have provided therefor parking spaces for motor vehicles and
loading and unloading berths as specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-6)
§ 156.092 DISTRICTS DESIGNATED.
   The incorporated territory of the town is hereby classified and divided into
nine districts, designated as follows:
AG Agricultural
AG  Agricultural
C1  Commercial
C2  General Business
C3  General Business, Shopping Center
I1  Light Industry
MHP Mobile Home Park
R1  Residential (Single-family)
R2  Residential (Multi-family)
R3  Residential (Multi-family, medium/high density)
 
(Prior Code, §2-2-3-1)
§ 156.093 DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Agricultural (AG).
      (1)   To conserve and enhance the low density and agricultural use of
substantial portions of the buffer zone of the town that should retain such
character.
      (2)   By conserving such character, the town and other public agencies
will realize economies in public expenditures by minimizing scattered demand
for urban types and levels of services, utilities, and facilities in otherwise
predominantly rural areas, and will promote the preservation of agricultural
lands as a vital economic resource for present and future agricultural
productivity. Subdivisions are not permitted in this district.
   (B)   Residential (R1, R2, R3).
      (1)   These three districts are established for residential use in
conformity with the types of neighborhoods which have occurred and are likely
to develop in the areas so designated on the zone map. The districts differ
primarily with respect to requirements of lot size, building ground floor area,
and number of families which may be housed in one building.
      (2)   The specific requirements for each residential district are shown
in Figure 1 of §
156.004. Certain non-residential contingent uses are automatically permitted in
these districts (see Figure 7 in §
156.004), and special exceptions maybe permitted with the approval of the Board
(see Figure 9 in §
156.004).
         (a)   R1. This is primarily a single-family dwelling district. It
includes most of the territory of the town which appears most likely to be
residential in character. Requirements of minimum lot size and ground floor
area are greater than the requirement for the R2 District.
         (b)   R2. While this district would be primarily used for single-
family dwellings, two-family and multi-family buildings will be permitted on a
density of use basis, with the minimum lot size being increased for buildings
containing more than one family. The R2 requirements as to minimum lot size and
ground floor area are less than those specified for the R1 District.
         (c)   R3. Medium to high density multi-family district, the intent of
which is to establish and preserve relatively higher density residential
districts in the appropriate areas of the town. Such districts are to consist
primarily of multi-family and two-family dwellings with convenient access to
transportation facilities, shopping areas, churches, schools, and similar
amenities, and should be serviced by municipal utilities, including water and
sanitary sewer systems.
   (C)   Commercial (C1, C2, C3). These districts are established to meet the
specific requirements for the classes of business uses needed to provide
adequate service throughout the town as related to present and future
developments. Single- and multi-family dwellings are permitted uses in C1 and
C2 Districts, but not in C3 Districts. All residential uses in C1 and C2
Districts are subject to the requirements of Figure 1 in §
156.004. The specific requirements for business uses in all commercial
districts are provided in Figures 2, 3, and 4 of §
156.004. Contingent uses and special exception uses permitted are provided in
Figures 7 and 9 of §
156.004.
      (1)   C1. This district is designed and located in a location to
accommodate the primary shopping needs of the area. Although limited in area
occupied, these districts are important to the economic welfare of the
community in placing convenience and impulse goods establishments close to the
consumer. The local business uses defined in §
156.126 are permitted in all commercial districts.
      (2)   C2. This is a general business district providing for all types of
business and service uses, including warehouse and storage facilities.
      (3)   C3. This district is provided to meet the need for retail shopping
facilities in planned shopping centers where no clear pattern of business now
exists. Such business centers shall be established on a single, well-planned
site of at least six acres.
   (D)   Industrial (I1). These districts are established to meet the present
and future need for light industrial development, and incorporate most of the
existing industrial developments and provide for the expansion thereof.
Generally, permitted uses will include the storage of materials, when confined
within a building, except for the storage, loading, and unloading of materials
in the rear yard. The performance characteristics are compatible with uses
permitted in neighboring districts.
   (E)   Mobile home parks (MHP). To provide and maintain a suitable
residential area for mobile homes within a mobile home park and mobile home
subdivision, both of which shall require the approval of the Board of Zoning
Appeals through the issuance of a special exception.
(Prior Code, §2-2-3-2) (Ord. 1994-5-7, passed 5-7-1994)
§ 156.094 SCHEDULE OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
Structure Type R1 R2 R3 C1 C2 C3 I1
Structure Type               R1 R2 R3 C1 C2 C3 I1
Adult entertainment                            S
Auto leasing                          S  S  P
Auto part store                       S  S  P
Auto sale                                   S  P
Auto service station                  S  S  P
Bakery                                         S
Barber shop                           P  P  P
Beauty shop                           P  P  P
Bulk chemical storage                          S
Bulk fuel storage                              S
Car wash                                    P
Ceramics                                       S
Church                       S  S  S  S  S  S
Commercial antennas                   S  S  S  S
Convenience mart                      S  S  P
Commercial printing                            S
Drug store                            P  P  P
Dry cleaner                           P  P  P
Dump                                           S
Electrical wind generators                     S
Farm implement                                 P
Final disposal facility                        S
Fire works manufacture                         S
Fire works sale                                S
Gasoline service station                    P
Government building                   S  S  S
Gyms                                        P
Hazardous waste facility                       S
Home business                S  S  S
Hotel/motel                           S  S  P
Laundromat                            P  P  P
Licensed day care facility            S  P  P
Liquor store                                P
Medical clinic                        P  P  P
Mobile home park                         S  S
Mortuary/funeral home                 S  S  P
Multi-family                       P
Nursing home                       S  S
Office building                       P  P  P
Plant nursery                               S  S
Plastic injection molding                      S
Police and fire station               S  S  S  S
Professional office                   P  P  P
Propane fuel storage                           S
Public library                     S  S  S  S
Public park                  P  P  P           P
Recreational facilities park                S  S
Recreational inside                   S  S  P
Recreational outside                        S  P
Resale shop                           P  P  P
Restaurant                            P  P  P
School                       S  S  S  S  S  S
Scrap yard                                     S
Single-family                P  P  P
Storage inside                              P  P
Storage outside                                S
Supermarket                           S  S  P
Tavern                                S  S  P
Three-family                       P
Transfer station                               S
Truck and equipment repair                     P
Truck and equipment sale                    P
Two-family                      P  P
Veterinarian                             S  S
Video store                           P  P  P
Notes:
S = Special Exception
P= Permitted
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3-3) (Ord. 2000-07-18, passed 7-18-2000)
RESIDENTIAL USES AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.105 USES DEFINED.
   The residential uses defined below include accessory buildings and other
uses which are permitted in the district as indicated in Figure 1 of §
156.004. Compliance with the requirements listed therein is subject to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A building designed for or occupied by two or more
families exclusively for dwelling purposes, and shall include modular or
expandable modular units which meet the same requirements as site-built
structures.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building designed for or occupied by one family
exclusively; and shall include site-built structures and modular units, but
shall not include mobile homes in Class B or Class C manufactured housing.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4-1)
§ 156.106 AREA AND WIDTH.
   A single-family dwelling may be located on any lot in which single-family
dwellings are permitted if the lot was in single ownership or included in a
subdivision prior to the passage of Ordinance 1981-1, even though the lot was
platted. No dwelling structure may be located on any lot having a width of less
than 80 feet.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4-2)
§ 156.107 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings or structures are not permitted prior to the
erection of the principal building. No accessory building or structure shall be
located closer to the side lot line than ten feet, nor exceed 18 feet in
height, and, if detached from the principal building, shall be set back at
least 50 feet from the front lot line.
   (B)   Accessory uses, subordinate to a principal building and customarily
considered necessary for the enjoyment and practical occupation of a
residential premises, shall be permitted in and upon such premises, and shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Public utility installations including any and all equipment and
components of electrical, telephone, water, sewage, drainage, and cable
television systems necessary to provide these services to each dwelling or
premises;
      (2)   Retaining walls constructed in accordance with the specifications
contained in the Uniform Building Code;
      (3)   (a)   Public sidewalks constructed of portland cement concrete,
five feet in width and four inches thick, with a three-inch wire mesh
reinforcement. A minimum four-inch bed of compacted sand shall be provided
before the concrete is poured. The surface of all public sidewalks shall be six
inches above the established surface of the adjoining street, place, or road.
The installation of public sidewalks shall be the responsibility of the
property owner, and shall be constructed to conform with the existing sidewalks
of adjacent properties where possible.
         (b)   This section shall be interpreted to mean that the property
owner shall install and maintain the sidewalks at his or her expense and
publicly dedicate the same.
         (c)   All provisions of the improvement location permit procedures
shall be met.
      (4)   Private sidewalks and paved driveways shall be constructed by the
property owner and shall be required to meet the provisions of the improvement
location permit procedures, however, no paving material used in the
construction of a private driveway shall be permitted to obstruct or divert
water flow in the gutter. All driveways are to be paved and curbs cut to meet
street elevations;
      (5)   (a)   Fences in a rear yard shall not exceed six feet in height and
shall not project closer to the front lot line than the side of the principal
building closest to and substantially parallel to the rear lot line.
         (b)   In the case of corner lots, permitted fences shall not project
closer to the side lot line than the side of the principal building closest to
and substantially parallel to the side lot line adjacent to a street. For
purposes of this section, the principal building shall not include garages,
porches, and similar extensions.
         (c)   Fences shall be required to meet the provisions of the
improvement location permit procedure. Nothing contained in this section shall
be deemed to prohibit the construction or maintenance of any fence of any
height or material which is used in connection with agricultural use;
      (6)   Hedges located in side or rear yards shall not exceed seven feet in
height. Hedges located in front yards shall not exceed three feet in height,
except that on corner lots, hedges shall not exceed three feet in height above
the average elevation of the intersection streets, roads, or places. Hedges
shall be exempt from the improvement location permit procedure;
      (7)   Towers for the support of television antennas and CB transmission
or reception shall be permitted in any residential district, provided the
structure, including the antennas, does not exceed 50 feet in height, measured
from the ground level. Towers may not support or be an integral part of
transmission equipment that exceeds the power limits established by the Federal
Communications Commission. Towers, including antennas, which exceed 25 feet in
height shall be required to comply with the improvement location permit
procedures.
      (8)   Other uses, including mailboxes, name plates, flag poles,
lampposts, bird baths, and uses of a like nature are permitted in any front,
side, or rear yard, and such uses shall not be required to meet the provisions
of the improvement location permit procedures.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4-3) (Ord. 1994-5-17, passed 5-17-1994; Ord. 2014-05-20,
passed 5-20-2014)
§ 156.108 FRONT YARD.
   (A)   Where 25% or more of the lots in a pre-existing block are occupied by
buildings, the average setback of such buildings shall determine the dimensions
of the front yards on the block.
   (B)   However, front yard lines or building setback lines established in a
recorded subdivision shall establish the dimensions of the front yards in such
subdivision, except when such building setback lines may be less restrictive
than provided in this chapter. On through lots, a front yard is required on
each street.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4-4)
§ 156.109 PROJECTION INTO YARDS.
   Architectural projections into yards shall be subject to the following
restrictions.
   (A)   Architectural features such as cornices, eaves, sills, canopies, or
similar features may extend or project into a required side yard not more than
two inches for each one foot of width of such side yard, and may extend or
project into a required front or rear yard not more than two feet, provided
that the width of any side yard is not reduced to less than six feet thereby.
   (B)   An open platform or landing which does not extend above the level of
the first floor of the building may extend or project into any front or side
yard not more than four feet, or into any required rear yard not more than 25%
of the required rear yard depth.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4-5)
§ 156.110 TAPERED YARD.
   Where a reversed interior lot abuts a corner lot or an alley separating such
lots, an accessory building or structure located on the rear lot line of a
corner lot shall be set back from the side street as far as the dwelling on the
reversed interior lot. For each foot that such accessory building is placed
from the rear line toward the front line of the corner lot, the accessory
building may be set four inches closer to the side street line, but in no case
closer than eight feet.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4-6)
§ 156.111 HEIGHT.
   In the districts which limit height to 25 feet, a multi-family dwelling may
be increased in height not to exceed 35 feet; provided, however, that the
required side yards are increased an additional two feet for each one foot such
structures exceed 25 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4-7)
§ 156.112 OTHER PROVISIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   All crawl spaces beneath any type of construction must be capped with
concrete no less than two inches thick.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4-9)
§ 156.113 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   All streets in any mobile home park constructed in the town, shall
conform to the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and
Maintenance latest edition for the state, and further specifications in the
tables shown in §
156.268(B).
   (B)   Sidewalks shall be required within the mobile home parks, and shall be
placed according to the grades shown on plans, profiles, and cross-sections
approved by the Planning Commission. Construction specifications shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Portland cement concrete (PCC);
      (2)   Minimum four inches thick with four-inch wire mesh; and
      (3)   Minimum width of four feet.
   (C)   One mobile home park stand for each 20 mobile home park stands shall
be set aside for recreational purposes.
   (D)   Adequate fire hydrants shall be located in any mobile home park within
the town, and the cost shall be borne by the owner or developer. No occupancy
permits shall be issued until the Chief of the Fire Department shall have
approved of the installation of said fire hydrants. Occupancy permits for
portions of a mobile home park may be issued; provided the Chief of the Fire
Department shall have certified that the installation of hydrants is adequate
for the protection of those mobile home park stands and/or other improvements
to be occupied. An occupancy permit shall be required for each mobile home park
stand and/or other improvements for human habitation located within the mobile
home park.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4-10)
BUSINESS USES AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.125 USE DEFINED.
   The business uses defined below are permitted in the districts indicated in
Figure 2 of §
156.004, when complying with the requirements specified in Figures 2, 3, and 4
of §
156.004 subject to the provisions of division (C) below.
   (A)   LOCAL BUSINESS USE. One which is primarily of a retail or service
nature, and is classified in the following categories:
      (1)   Automobile service. Including, but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Filling station;
         (b)   Public garage;
         (c)   Public parking area; and
         (d)   Automobile sales room.
      (2)   Business service. Including, but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Bank;
         (b)   Business and professional office;
         (c)   Postal station;
         (d)   Telegraph office; and
         (e)   Trade or business school.
      (3)   Clothing service. Including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Laundry agency;
         (b)   Self-service laundry;
         (c)   Dry cleaning establishments using cleaning fluid which in non-
explosive and non-flammable, and using not more than 40-pound capacity;
         (d)   Dressmaking;
         (e)   Tailor and pressing shop; and
         (f)   Shoe repair shop.
      (4)   Equipment service. Including, but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Radio and television shop;
         (b)   Electronic appliance shop; and
         (c)   Record shop.
      (5)   Food service. Including, but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Grocery;
         (b)   Meat market;
         (c)   Supermarket;
         (d)   Restaurant;
         (e)   Delicatessen;
         (f)   Cold storage lockers for individual use; and
         (g)   Bakery.
      (6)   Personal service. Including, but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Barber shop;
         (b)   Beauty shop;
         (c)   Reducing salon; and
         (d)   Photographic studio.
      (7)   Retail service (retail stores generally). Including, but not
limited to the following:
         (a)   Department store;
         (b)   Drug store;
         (c)   Hardware;
         (d)   Stationer;
         (e)   News dealer;
         (f)   Showroom for articles to be sold at retail;
         (g)   Variety store;
         (h)   Apparel shop; and
         (i)   Flower shop, including greenhouse not exceeding 1,000 square
feet in area.
      (8)   Business, recreational uses. When conducted only within buildings
so constructed that no noise of any kind produced therein shall be audible
beyond the confines of the building, including, but not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Indoor theater;
         (b)   Bowling alley;
         (c)   Billiard room;
         (d)   Dancing academy; and
         (e)   Tavern or night club, only in conformity with the requirements
of laws or ordinances governing such use.
      (9)   Private club or lodge;
      (10)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to the above
uses. Any building used primarily for accessory purposes may not have more than
40% of its floor area devoted to storage purposes incidental to such primary
use; and provided that no more than five persons are employed at one time or on
any one shift in connection with such incidental use; and
      (11)   Advertising sign or billboard.
   (B)   GENERAL BUSINESS USE, PERMITTED IN C2 AND I1 DISTRICTS. Including
accessory buildings and uses, and including the uses specifically stated or
implied as follows:
      (1)   Local business uses;
      (2)   Automobile or trailer sales area;
      (3)   Automobile and truck repair;
      (4)   Hotel or motel;
      (5)   Motor bus or railroad passenger station;
      (6)   Newspaper publishing;
      (7)   Radio and television studios;
      (8)   Storage warehouses;
      (9)   Veterinary hospital for small animals and kennels;
      (10)   Wholesale establishment; and
      (11)   Any business use not specifically stated or implied elsewhere in
this chapter, and complying with the above definitions.
   (C)   GENERAL BUSINESS USE PERMITTED IN C3 DISTRICT. Limited to a well-
planned shopping center, and shall be subject to the following requirements and
provisions:
      (1)   The tract of land involved shall be of an area not less than six
acres; and
      (2)   The owner or owners of such tract of land shall have obtained the
approval of the Commission in accordance with the procedure set forth in §
156.269(B) and the requirements specified in Figure 2 of §
156.004.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5-1)
§ 156.126 OTHER PROVISIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Other provisions and requirements for business uses are as follows.
   (A)   Plans for the erection or structural alteration of a filling station
and public parking area shall be approved by the Commission. The Commission may
require such changes therein with respect to yards and location, driveways,
pumps, and buildings as it may deem best suited to ensure safety, minimize
traffic hazards, and safeguard adjacent properties.
   (B)   Parking spaces shall be provided on the lot or within 300 feet thereof
on a site approved by the Commission as indicated in Figure 3 of §
156.004.
   (C)   Parking space requirements shall not apply in a block where 50% or
more of the area was occupied by business or industrial structures at the time
of the passage of Ordinance 1981-1.
   (D)   Groups of uses requiring parking space may join in establishing group
public parking area, together with parking spaces for employees, with
capacities aggregating that required for each participating use.
   (E)   All commercial driveways and parking lots shall be paved with concrete
or asphalt materials according to specifications set forth for alley and
crosswalks in Table 2 of §
156.268(B).
   (F)   One-half of an alley abutting the rear of a lot may be included in the
rear yard, but such alley space shall not be included for loading and unloading
berths.
   (G)   Loading and unloading berths shall not be required for business uses
which demonstrably do not receive or transmit goods or wares in quantity by
truck delivery.
   (H)   Where 25% or more of the lots in a block are occupied by buildings,
the setback of such buildings shall determine the dimension of the front yards
in the block.
   (I)   The maximum building height requirement in Figure 2 of §
156.004 may be increased if buildings are set back from rear and front property
lines one foot for each two feet of additional height above the maximum
building height requirement.
   (J)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, penthouses,
stacks, tanks, water towers, transmission towers, or essential mechanical
appurtenances may be erected to any height not prohibited by any other laws or
ordinances.
   (K)   Plans and specifications for proposed sewerage and other waste
treatment and disposal facilities shall be submitted to, and approval obtained
from, the state’s Department of Environmental Management.
   (L)   (1)   Fire lanes shall be established adjacent to and abutting the
perimeter of all building and building blocks erected in C1, C2, C3, and I1
Districts; and adequate and prominent signs shall be displayed which shall
forbid the parking of any vehicle or leaving any vehicle unattended in such
designated fire lanes; nor shall such designated fire lanes be used for outdoor
display or storage space.
      (2)   Any change in the use or occupancy of the building as a result of a
reasonable action by the Council shall subject the building to the provisions
of this section.
   (M)   The sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages shall not be permitted
in connection with the operation of a gas station or filling station.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5-2) (Ord. 1996-220A, passed 2-20-1996)
INDUSTRIAL USES AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.140 PERMITTED USE.
   (A)   The industrial uses found below are permitted in the district
indicated in Figure 5 of §
156.004, when complying with the requirements in Figure 6 of §
156.004, subject to the provisions of division (B) below.
   (B)   Permitted uses shall include, but be limited to the following:
      (1)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging, or treatment
of food products, with the exception of fish and meat products, sauerkraut,
vinegar, yeast, and the rendering or refining of fats and oils;
      (2)   Automobile assembly, painting, upholstering, rebuilding,
reconditioning, truck repair or overhauling, tire repair, or recapping;
      (3)   Blacksmith shops, manufacturing of machine tools, manufacturing of
machinery; including agricultural, electrical machinery or equipment, office or
store machines, equipment or supplies or the like, machine shops excluding
punch presses over 100-tons-ready capacity, and drop hammers;
      (4)   Foundries casting light weight, non-ferrous metals not causing
noxious fumes or odors;
      (5)   Animal hospitals and kennels;
      (6)   The compounding, processing, packing, or treatment of such products
as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, soap, pharmaceuticals, and toiletries;
      (7)   The compounding, processing, or fabricating of articles from
prepared materials which include the following: bone, cellophane, canvas,
cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, grass, hair, horn, leather, paper,
plastic, precious or semi-precious metals or stones, shells, textiles, tobacco,
wood, excluding planing or milling, yarn, and paint not employing a boiling
process;
      (8)   The manufacture of pottery figurines or any other similar ceramic
products using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas;
      (9)   The manufacture or repair of electric or neon signs, billboards,
excluding commercial advertising structures, fight sheet metal production,
heating or ventilating ducts or equipment, cornices or edges or the like;
      (10)   The manufacture of musical instruments, clocks, watches, toys,
novelties, and rubber or metal stamps;
      (11)   The assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and
devices, radios and phonographs, and including the manufacture of small parts
only, such as coils, condensers, transformers, crystals, and crystal holders;
      (12)   Wholesale warehouses and storage buildings;
      (13)   Chicken hatcheries;
      (14)   Truck terminals;
      (15)   Railroad lines or spur trackage, rail freight stations;
      (16)   Electrical transformer stations and electrical transmission lines;
      (17)   Bulk materials plants; and
      (18)   The following uses, providing the operations are carried on
completely within the building:
         (a)   Auto wrecking;
         (b)   Bleaching or dying;
         (c)   Body and fender works;
         (d)   Stone cutting;
         (e)   Storage, sorting, collecting, or baling of rags, paper, metal,
or junk; and
         (f)   In general, those uses except residential which are not
obnoxious or offensive by reason of emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas, or
noise.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6-1)
§ 156.141 OTHER PROVISIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Other provisions and requirements for industrial uses are as follows.
   (A)   At no point on the boundary of a residential or commercial district
shall the sound pressure level of any industrial plant or operation be of such
nature as to become a nuisance to adjacent users.
   (B)   No emissions of odorous gases or matter shall be allowed in such
quantities as to be offensive to the boundaries of any residential or
commercial district.
   (C)   No emissions of noxious, toxic, or corrosive fumes or gases shall be
allowed to cause or have a tendency to cause injury or damage to property or to
endanger the comfort, health, or safety of any person.
   (D)   Any process or operation producing glare, light, or heat shall be
shielded in such a manner as not to create a public nuisance or hazard.
   (E)   No process or operation shall be allowed which will produce air
pollution or waste materials which cause or have a tendency to cause injury or
damage to property, or which will endanger the comfort, health, or safety of
any person.
   (F)   All operations shall be carried on completely within a building.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6-2)
CONTINGENT USES; STANDARDS
§ 156.155 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTINGENT USE. One which is likely or liable, but not certain to occur; and
which is not inappropriate to the principal use of the district in which it may
be located. Such uses are permitted in the districts indicated in Figure 7 of §
156.004, subject to the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7-1)
§ 156.156 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   When so located shall conform to the requirements of the district in which
the contingent use is permitted, except that the number of parking spaces to be
provided shall conform to the requirements of Figure 7 of §
156.004. The required number of parking spaces shall be provided on the same
lot with the use or within 300 feet thereof on a site approved by the Board.
   (A)   Whenever a contingent use is expanded or enlarged, parking spaces
shall be provided for the expanded or enlarged portion thereof in accordance
with the requirements of this section.
   (B)   A church or temple requiring public parking area at times when nearby
users do not need their parking facilities may, by agreement approved by the
Board, utilize such facilities in lieu of providing their own parking
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7-2)
§ 156.157 BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   The maximum building height for contingent uses shall be as provided in
Figure 8 of §
156.004.
   (A)   The maximum building height requirements in Figure 8 of §
156.004 may be increased if buildings are set back from front and rear property
lines one foot for each two feet of additional building height above the
maximum building height requirements.
   (B)   In all districts, spires, church steeples, chimneys, cooling towers,
elevator bulkheads, fire towers, scenery lofts, and essential mechanical
appurtenances may be erected to any height not prohibited by other laws or
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7-3)
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
§ 156.170 APPLICABILITY.
   All zoning lots in all existing zoning districts, and in all zoning
districts that may be created after the effective date of this subchapter,
shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter unless specifically
exempted herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-7)
§ 156.171 CONFORMANCE.
   (A)   Compliance for all non-conforming uses. Any existing luminaire
installation used for outdoor lighting in any zoning district that does not
presently comply with the requirements of this subchapter will be considered a
legal non-conforming use. Except as set forth in division (B) below, such non-
conforming uses must comply with the current requirements or must be removed if
any of the following occur:
      (1)   The height or location of the luminaire is changed;
      (2)   The luminaire is changed or replaced, excluding routine maintenance
and bulb replacement of equal light output, except if it is part of a parking
lot lighting installation consisting of an array of three or more identical
luminaires and poles or supporting structures;
      (3)   The supporting structure for the luminaire is changed or replaced
except if it is part of a parking-lot lighting installation consisting of an
array of three or more identical luminaires and poles or supporting structures;
and/or
      (4)   The luminaire is producing glare that is deemed to create a hazard
or nuisance by the town.
   (B)   Criteria requiring full compliance or complete removal. In the event
that a cumulative total of 50% or more of the non-conforming luminaires or
their supporting structures are changed, replaced (excluding routine
maintenance and bulb replacement of equal light output), or relocated, then all
of the luminaire installations must be removed or comply with the current
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-7)
§ 156.172 ILLUMINATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Gross emission of light.
      (1)    The total light output from all luminaires used for outdoor
lighting on any zoning lot in a commercial lighting zone shall not exceed
100,000 lumens per net acre.
      (2)   Lighting installations located under canopies shall only contribute
50% toward this limit.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to street lighting, outdoor display
lots, lighting installations for non-internally illuminated signage not
exceeding 800 lumens, and outdoor lighting of playing fields on public
property.
   (B)   Light intensity and uniformity.
      (1)   Commercial and industrial lighting zones. During permitted hours of
operation as defined within this subchapter, outdoor lighting on any zoning lot
in a commercial or industrial lighting zone shall comply with the following
requirements for light level as measured in the plane of the illuminated
surface:
Illuminated Surface Minimum Light Level Maximum Light Level
Illuminated Surface                     Minimum Light Level Maximum Light Level
All other fields or tennis courts       -                   30 footcandles
Auto dealerships: front row and feature -                   20 footcandles
displays
Auto dealerships: other merchandise     -                   10 footcandles
areas
Automobile service station-pumping area 10 footcandles      30 footcandles
Baseball/softball playing fields;       -                   60 footcandles
infield
Baseball/softball playing fields;       -                   30 footcandles
outfield
Building entrance and exit*             1 footcandles       5 footcandles
Drive-in/drive-through canopies         -                   15 footcandles
Non-internally-illuminated signs,       -                   15 footcandles
building, and ground (dark color)
Non-internally-illuminated signs,       -                   5 footcandles
building, and ground (light color)
Non-internally-illuminated signs,       -                   10 footcandles
building, and ground (medium color)
Public parking areas*                   -                   5 footcandles
Stairways and steps*                    1 footcandles       5 footcandles
Vehicular entrances from right-of-way*  0.2 footcandles     4.5 footcandles
Notes:
* Maximum to minimum light level ratio shall not exceed 15:1.
 
      (2)   Outdoor dynamic display (digital signage).
         (a)   The luminance for any outdoor dynamic display (digital signage)
shall not exceed 5,000 nits during daylight hours or 150 nits at all other
times. Brightness must be measured from the brightest element of the sign’s
face.
      (b)   The applicant shall provide written certification from the sign
manufacturer that the light intensity has been factory pre-set so that it will
not exceed the luminance levels for day and night.
   (C)   Light direction and control.
      (1)   Residential, commercial, and industrial lighting zones.
         (a)   Any luminaire which is used for uplighting on any zoning lot in
a residential, commercial, or industrial lighting zone shall have the necessary
shielding and/or beam-angle control and/or shall be aimed to substantially
confine the direct light to the object intending to be illuminated. Uplighting
shall only be permitted for landscape lighting, architectural lighting, flag
lighting, and lighting of ground-mounted signs that are not internally
illuminated.
         (b)   Uplighting applications shall meet the following requirements:
 
Uplighting Application Maximum Inclination Maximum Light Output
Architectural lighting 45 degrees          1,100 lumens†
Flag lighting*         60 degrees          1,100 lumens† (up to 45 degrees)
                                           800 lumens‡ (up to 60 degrees)
Landscape lighting     60 degrees          1,100 lumens† (up to 45 degrees)
                                           800 lumens‡ (up to 60 degrees)
Sign lighting**        45 degrees          1,100 lumens‡
Notes:
* The tradition of lowering flags at sunset is encouraged to avoid the need
for lighting.
** Ground-mounted, non-internally-illuminated signs only.
† Typical 75 watts incandescent bulb or 50 watts low-voltage halogen
landscape bulb.
‡ Typical 60 watts incandescent bulb or 35 watts low-voltage halogen
landscape bulb.
 
      (2)   Residential lighting zones.
         (a)   Any luminaire with a light output exceeding 1,100 lumens or 75
watts, which is used for outdoor lighting on any zoning lot in a residential
lighting zone shall have the necessary shielding and/or beam-angle control and/
or shall be aimed so that the direction of all directly emitted light is at or
below horizontal.
         (b)   If a motion-activated sensor that illuminates for no more than
five minutes upon activation is used, then such luminaire may have a light
output of up to 2,200 lumens or 150 watts. Any luminaire with a light output
exceeding 2,200 lumens or 150 watts, which is used for outdoor lighting on any
zoning lot in a residential lighting zone shall have the necessary shielding
and/or beam-angle control and/or shall be aimed so that the light source is not
visible along any property line, as viewed at a height of 60 inches above
grade.
      (3)   Commercial or industrial lighting zones. Except as otherwise stated
herein, any luminaire on any zoning lot in a commercial or industrial lighting
zone which emits light directed at a building or outdoor feature shall be
located at or above the top of the object and aimed and controlled so that the
direction of all emitted light is at or below horizontal and the directed light
is angled downward substantially confined to the object intending to be
illuminated (example: flag, statute, and the like).
      (4)   Light trespass. Except for street lighting, light emitted from
outdoor lighting on any zoning lot shall not cause the light level along any
property line, as measured at a height of 60 inches above grade in a plane at
any angle of inclination, to exceed the following limits and any property used
for governmental purposes shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section:
 
Emitting Zoning Lot       Impacted Zoning Lot            Maximum Light Level
Commercial/industrial     Commercial/industrial lighting 0.5 footcandles
lighting zone             zone
Commercial/industrial     Residential lighting zone      0 footcandles
lighting zone
Public lighting zone      Commercial lighting zone       0.5 footcandles
Public lighting zone      Residential lighting zone      0 footcandles
Residential lighting zone Commercial/industrial lighting 0.5 footcandles
                          zone
Residential lighting zone Residential lighting zone      0 footcandles
 
   (D)   Permitted hours for outdoor lighting.
      (1)   Commercial and industrial lighting zone.
         (a)   Except for street lighting, outdoor lighting (including, but not
limited to, parking lot, area, architectural, landscape, and the like) on any
zoning lot in a commercial or industrial lighting zone is permitted to be
lighted between 30 minutes before sunset and 10:00 p.m. CST or one hour after
the close of business based on normal hours of operation of the business,
whichever is later.
         (b)   Thereafter, for safety and security purposes, security lighting
is permissible at a total light output not greater than 25% of the total light
output from all outdoor lighting located on the zoning lot during permitted
outdoor lighting hours. During security lighting hours, no luminaire may exceed
its light output exhibited during permitted outdoor lighting hours.
      (2)   Property used for governmental and public purposes.
         (a)   Any zoning lot in any zoning district used for governmental or
public purposes, except for street lighting, shall comply with the permitted
hours and security lighting limitations for commercial lighting zones. In
addition, outdoor lighting of the playing field of an organized sporting event
on public property that is in progress at the close of permitted outdoor
lighting hours shall be allowed to remain illuminated until 30 minutes after
the conclusion of the event but no later than 11:00 p.m. CST.
         (b)   No outdoor lighting of the playing field for any sport or
recreational purpose shall be initiated after 9:00 p.m. CST.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-7)
§ 156.173 LUMINAIRE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Full-cutoff requirement.
      (1)   Commercial and industrial lighting zones. Except for uplighting
applications permitted within this subchapter, any luminaire used for outdoor
lighting in a commercial or industrial lighting zone shall be a full-cutoff
luminaire and shall be installed in the proper orientation to achieve full-
cutoff performance with respect to a horizontal plane.
      (2)   Street lighting.
         (a)   Any luminaire used for street lighting shall be a full-cutoff
100 watt high pressure sodium (HPS) luminaire and shall be installed in the
proper orientation to achieve full-cutoff performance with respect to a
horizontal plane at intersections only.
         (b)   The luminaire, as well as any poles, brackets, supports, and
mounting hardware shall comply with current town standards set forth in the
Town Design Standard Manual.
   (B)   Installed height. The installed height of any luminaire used for
outdoor lighting on any zoning lot, except for street lighting, shall not
exceed 25 feet, including the luminaire.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-7)
§ 156.174 PROHIBITED OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   The following outdoor lighting applications are prohibited in all zoning
districts:
   (A)   The use of a laser light source;
   (B)   The use of flickering, flashing, blinking, scrolling, or rotating
lights and any illumination that changes intensity;
   (C)   The use of upward-directed lighting, except as otherwise permitted
herein;
   (D)   Architectural lighting of any portion of a building or structure with
a polished or glass exterior surface that uses uplighting;
   (E)   The use of searchlights;
   (F)   The use of neon light to accent buildings or architectural features;
   (G)   The use of mercury vapor light sources, except for existing light
sources used in open space zoning districts; and
   (H)   Any luminaire creating glare that is deemed by the town to create a
hazard or nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-7)
§ 156.175 EXEMPT OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   The following outdoor lighting applications are exempt from all requirements
of this subchapter:
   (A)   Underwater lighting used for illumination of swimming pools and
fountains;
   (B)   Lighting required by county, state, or federal law;
   (C)   Temporary lighting used for holiday decorations;
   (D)   Decorative yard lighting characterized like a flame source;
   (E)   Portable lighting temporarily used for maintenance or repair that is
not deemed by the town or state to create a hazard or nuisance;
   (F)   Emergency lighting used by police, firefighting, emergency management,
or medical personnel at their discretion as long as the emergency exists;
   (G)   Lighting approved by the town for temporary events such as carnivals,
circuses, festivals, picnics, fairs, civic events, and exhibitions; and
   (H)   Temporary lighting required for road construction or other public
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-7)
§ 156.176 PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Plan submission. For subdivision and land-development applications
where outdoor lighting is required or proposed, lighting plans shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission for review and approval at a public meeting
and shall include:
      (1)   A site plan complete with all structures, parking spaces, building
entrances, traffic areas (both vehicular and pedestrian), vegetation that might
interfere with lighting, and all adjacent uses. The site plan shall show, by
location, and identify each existing and proposed luminaire and shall specify
its installed height, pole foundation details, and mounting methods;
      (2)   Iso-footcandle plots for individual lighting installations, or ten-
foot by ten-foot illuminance-grid plots for multi-fixture lighting
installations, which demonstrate compliance with all applicable requirements as
set forth in this subchapter. The plots shall indicate the location of each
existing and proposed luminaire, the installed height of said luminaires, and
the overall light levels in foot candles on the entire zoning lot and at the
property lines;
      (3)   A summary table identifying the maximum and minimum light levels
for all parking areas, entryways, signs, and walkways; and
      (4)   A description of each luminaire identified in the site plan
including the manufacturer, model number, a photograph or catalog cut,
photometric data verifying any compliance requirements specified within this
subchapter, light output in initials lumens, shielding or glare-reduction
devices, lamp type, and on/off control devices.
   (B)   Post-approval alterations. Post-approval alterations to lighting plans
or intended substitutions for approved lighting equipment shall be submitted to
the Plan Commission for review with all plan submission requirements set forth
within this subchapter, prior to installation. Any Plan Commission approval
under this section shall be by a waiver as provided in §
156.177.
   (C)   Right of inspection. The town shall have the right to conduct a post-
installation inspection to verify compliance with the requirements of this
subchapter and, if appropriate, to require remedial action at the expense of
the applicant and/or owner for nonconformance with the approved plan.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-7)
§ 156.177 WAIVERS.
   (A)   Application. Request for a waiver from the requirements of this
subchapter may be initiated by written application, which specifically denotes
what provisions of this subchapter relief is being sought.
   (B)   Application review and approval. The application for waiver will be
considered and approved by the Plan Commission.
      (1)   The Plan Commission may grant waivers of the requirements of this
subchapter in cases where it is demonstrated that practical difficulties exist
on the property whereby the full requirements of this subchapter are
impractical to implement fully.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may impose conditions when approving a waiver
request.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-7)
§ 156.178 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Inspector and such persons who are duly appointed as code
enforcement officials are hereby authorized to inspect luminaires and lighting
installations in the zoning districts subject to this subchapter to determine
compliance with the applicable provisions and, if necessary, to issue notices
of violation to the owner, operator, or other person(s) or entity responsible
for maintenance of the luminaire or lighting installation, if the luminaire or
lighting installation fails to comply with the provision of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-7)
§ 156.179 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCHITECTURAL LIGHTING. Outdoor lighting directed at buildings, facades,
structures, monuments, and other architectural features.
   COMMERCIAL LIGHTING ZONE. Any zoning lot in any zoning district that does
not have as its primary use a single-family residential dwelling, a two-family
residential dwelling, land used for agriculture, or land used for industrial
purposes.
   CST. Central Standard Time, including the local change in time for daylight
saving time.
   FOOTCANDLE. A unit of measurement of luminous flux.
   FULL-CUTOFF. Light distribution from a luminaire (excluding not more than
0.5% incidental uplight from poles, mounting brackets, and other supporting
structures), as determined by photometric test and certified by the
manufacturer, such that no light is emitted at or above an angle of 90 degrees
above nadir in any direction and the luminous flux emitted in the band between
80 degrees and 90 degrees above nadir in all directions is no more than 10% of
the total luminous flux for the luminaire.
   GLARE. A visual disturbance produced by a distinct light source within the
visual field that is sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are
adapted.
   HID LIGHTING. A high-intensity discharge family of lighting that includes
high-pressure sodium, fluorescent, mercury vapor, and metal halide type bulbs.
   ILLUMINANCE. The amount of luminous flux falling onto a unit of surface
area, correlating to the perception of brightness by the human eye. ILLUMINANCE
is typically measured in lumens per square foot (footcandles) or lumens per
square meter (lux).
   INDUSTRIAL LIGHTING ZONE. A lighting area on any zoning lot in an industrial
zoning district that is used typically relating to, concerning, or arising from
the manufacturing, assembling, fabrication, finishing, packaging, or processing
of goods.
   INSTALLED HEIGHT. The height above grade of the lowest point on an installed
luminaire.
   INTERNALLY-ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign illuminated by a light source internal
to the sign enclosure which is not directly visible externally including neon-
light signs.
   LAMP. The source of light being emitted from a luminaire, such as a bulb.
   LANDSCAPE LIGHTING. Outdoor lighting directed at trees, shrubs, plants,
flower beds, fountains, gardens, and other natural or landscaped features.
   LIGHT. Electromagnetic radiation within a range of wavelengths sufficient
for visual perception by the normal unaided human eye.
   LIGHT LEVEL. The illuminance as measured in accordance with the practices
contained in the Illumination Engineering Society of North America Lighting
Handbook, Eighth Edition.
   LIGHT OUTPUT. The initial lumen rating declared by the manufacturer, which
consists of the lumen rating of a lamp at the end of 100 hours of operation.
   LIGHTING INSTALLATION. An arrangement of one or more luminaires including
any mounting hardware, brackets, and supporting structures.
   LUMEN. A unit of measure of luminous flux. LUMENS denotes initial lumens for
HID lighting applications.
   LUMINAIRE. An individual lighting assembly including the lamp and any
housings, reflectors, globes, lenses, shields, or other components designed to
block or distribute light, but does not include internally illuminated signs.
   LUMINANCE. A measure of the brightness of a surface which is emitting light.
The unit of measurement most commonly used is candelas per square meter, often
referred to as nits in the United States (1 nit = 1 cd/m²). The nocturnal
appearance and environmental effect of objects such as internally-lit signs may
be analyzed both by total light output (lumens) and by their surface brightness
(nits).
   LUMINOUS FLUX. The power emitted from a source of electromagnetic radiation,
such as a light bulb, in the form of visible light. Luminous flux is measured
in lumens, or lux, and is typically specified by the manufacturer for a given
lamp or luminaire. Topical luminous flux values for incandescent bulbs are 100
watts: 1,550 lumens; 75 watts: 1,080 lumens; 60 watts: 780 lumens; and 40
watts: 450 lumens.
   MOTION-ACTIVATED SENSOR. A sensor which causes a luminaire to become
illuminated automatically upon the presence of motion or infrared radiation or
a combination thereof within its field of view.
   NADIR. The direction pointing directly downward from the light source of the
luminaire that originates from a horizontal plane at the lowest point on the
luminaire.
   NEON LIGHT. Brightly colored light generated by using electric current to
excite a gas or gas mixture, including neon, argon, helium, and other gases,
typically contained in a tube which can be bent into various forms or use as
decoration or signs. Fluorescent tubes are not considered a NEON LIGHT.
   NIT(S). A unit of measure of luminance.
   ORGANIZED SPORTING EVENT. A prearranged sports or recreational event
involving at least one group or team with a published roster and schedule.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY LOT. An outdoor area whose primary function is the sale of
displayed merchandise, often requiring accurate color perception by customers.
   OUTDOOR LIGHTING. Light generated from an indoor or outdoor source that
provides illumination to a surface, building, sign, structure, device, or other
outdoor feature which is visible to an observer located outdoors. OUTDOOR
LIGHTING does not include the light source inside an internally- illuminated
sign.
   PLAYING FIELD. An open outdoor field or court used for playing sports such
as baseball, soccer, football, tennis, volleyball, and basketball, and skate
parks.
   PUBLIC PARKING AREAS. A drivable surface intended for use by the general
public for parking motorized vehicles.
   RESIDENTIAL LIGHTING ZONE. Any zoning lot in a residential or agricultural
zoning district that has as its primary use a single-family residential
dwelling or a two-family residential dwelling.
   SEARCHLIGHT. A lighting installation designed to project a high-intensity
beam of approximately parallel rays of light that is typically used to sweep
the sky for promotional purposes.
   SHIELDING. A luminaire which uses shielding, lenses, or other means to
provide distinct directional focused beam of emitted light.
   STREET LIGHTING. One or more luminaires or light installations designed to
illuminate a public roadway or intersection.
   UPLIGHTING. Lighting applications which direct light above a horizontal
plane.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2-7) (Ord. 2013-09-17, passed 9-17-2013)
SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.190 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXISTING USE. Listed herein as a special exception, and which is located in
a district in which such special exception may be permitted, is a conforming
use. Any expansion of such special exception involving the enlargement of the
buildings, structures, and land area devoted to such use shall be subject to
the procedure described in §
156.191. The special exceptions listed in Figure 9 §
156.004 are those customarily located in the community.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-8-1)
§ 156.191 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for an improvement location permit for
a special exception by the Executive Secretary of the Commission, it shall be
referred to the Commission for investigation as to the manner in which the
proposed location and character of the special exception will affect the town’s
Master Plan. The Commission shall report the results of its study to the Board
within 45 days following receipt of the application. If no such report has been
filed with the Board within the time period, the Board may proceed to process
the application.
   (B)   The Board shall then proceed with a hearing on the application in the
manner prescribed in §
156.041. Following the hearing, and upon an affirmative finding by the Board
that:
      (1)   The proposed special exception is to be located in a district
wherein such use may be permitted;
      (2)   The requirements set forth in Figure 9 of §
156.004 for such special exception will be met; and
      (3)   The special exception is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of this chapter, that it will not substantially and permanently injure
the appropriate use of neighboring property, and that it will serve the public
convenience and welfare, then the Board shall order the Building Commissioner
to issue an improvement location permit for the special exception.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-8-2)
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 156.205 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. The lawful use of a building or premises, existing at
the time of the passage of Ordinance 1981-1 may be continued, although such use
does not conform to all the provisions of said ordinance, except as hereinafter
provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-9-1)
§ 156.206 RESTRICTED, EXTENSION, REVERTING, AND RESTORATION OF USE.
   A non-conforming use may be extended throughout a building provided no
structural alterations are made therein, except those required by law. A non-
conforming use may be changed to another non-conforming use of the same or
greater restriction, provided no structural changes are made in the building or
structure. Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a conforming use
or to a use permitted in a district of greater restrictions, it shall not
thereafter be changed to a non-conforming use of a less restricted type. No
building or structure shall be erected upon any premises devoted to a non-
conforming use, except in conformance with this chapter.
   (A)   The Board may authorize, by written permit, the use or occupancy of a
temporary building or structure in any district subject to the following
provisions and requirements.
      (1)   A temporary building or structure or trailer may be used in any
residential, commercial, or industrial district as a storage place for
material, tools, and equipment or a construction office for a period of no more
than six months at the end of which period said permit may be extended for an
additional six months upon application for such extension and the payment of
one-half of the original permit fee. Such permit shall become invalid upon
completion of the construction project.
      (2)   A temporary building or structure may be used in areas zoned
commercial or light industrial for up to a five-year period of time.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, or designated use of a building or structure for which an
improvement location permit had been heretofore issued, and the construction of
which has been diligently prosecuted within 90 days from the date of such
permit; and which the entire building or structure shall be completed according
to such plans filed within three years from the date of the passage of
Ordinance 1981-1.
   (C)   In the event that a non-conforming use of any building or structure or
premises is discontinued for a period of one year, the use of the same shall
thereafter conform to the uses permitted in the district in which it is
located.
   (D)   When a building or structure containing a non-conforming use is
damaged by fire, explosion, act of God, or the public enemy to the extent of
more than 50% of its current market value, it shall not be restored except in
conformity with the regulations of the district within which it is located.
   (E)   These provisions apply in the same manner to a use which may become a
non-conforming use due to a later amendment to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-9-2) (Ord. 2003-04-15, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 156.207 TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY OF MOBILE HOMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, place, or locate a trailer on
any street, lot, or parcel of land within the corporate limits of the town for
a period of time exceeding 48 consecutive hours in any one 30-day period;
provided, however, that a trailer may be located pursuant to a temporary
occupancy permit issued in accordance with the provisions of the town’s
chapter; and provided further, that the provisions of this section shall not
apply to the location of trailers in mobile home parks duly authorized and
operating under the provisions of the town’s chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-9-3) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.208 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Any person who has a trailer parked, placed, or located within the
corporate limits of the town before the effective date of Ordinance 1971-4, and
the trailer is being used as a residence, shall not be subject to the
provisions herein as to the particular trailer or trailers so long as said
trailer or trailers are not moved from the location or replaced by another
trailer.
   (B)   Outside of mobile home parks, the Board, after customary notices and
public hearing, may at its discretion, grant a variance to permit temporary
occupancy of a mobile home for a period of not more than one year, which may be
renewed by the Board for one-year periods, provided:
      (1)   Such mobile home is to be located on the same property with an
existing residence;
      (2)   Such mobile home is served with the same water supply and sewage
disposal facilities serving the existing residence;
      (3)   Such mobile home shall remain on its wheels and not be placed on a
permanent foundation;
      (4)   Applicable side yard and front yard regulations of the district in
which it is located are observed; and
      (5)   Occupancy of such mobile home is restricted to relatives or
employee, employed on the premises, of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-9-4)
SIGNS
§ 156.220 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of the town’s comprehensive sign ordinance, codified herein,
are to:
   (A)   Encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication in
the town;
   (B)   Maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment and the town’s ability
to attract sources of economic growth and development;
   (C)   Improve pedestrian and traffic safety;
   (D)   Minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public and
private property; and
   (E)   Enable the fair and consistent enforcement of reasonable sign
restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-1) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.221 APPLICABILITY AND EFFECT.
   (A)   A sign may be erected, placed, established, painted, created, or
maintained in the town only in conformance with the standards, procedures,
exemptions, and other requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The effect of this subchapter as more specifically set forth herein is
to:
      (1)   Establish a permit system to allow a variety of sign types in
commercial and industrial zoning districts, and a limited variety of sign types
in other zoning districts, subject to the standards and the permit procedures
contained in this subchapter;
      (2)   Allow certain signs that are small, unobtrusive, and incidental to
the principal use of the respective lots on which they are located, subject to
the substantive requirements of this subchapter, but without a requirement for
permits;
      (3)   Provide for temporary signs without commercial messages in limited
circumstances in the public right-of-way;
      (4)   Prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this subchapter; and
      (5)   Provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-2) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.222 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases used in this subchapter shall have the meaning as set
forth in this section. Words and phrases not defined in this section, but
otherwise defined in this title, shall be given that meaning. All other words
and phrases shall be given their common, ordinary meaning, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement or a change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or scene.
   BANNER. The term herein shall encompass and govern all signs, balloons,
flags, and the like which are non-conforming with any other definition in this
code of ordinances.
   BEACON. Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same parcel as the light source;
also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
   BUILDING MARKER. Any sign indicating the name of a building and date and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
   BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to any part of a building, as contrasted
with a free-standing sign.
   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is part of or attached to an awning, canopy, or
other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window, or outdoor service area. A marquee shall not be deemed to be a CANOPY.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that
directly or indirectly names, advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, or other commercial enterprise or activity.
   COMMISSIONER. The Building Commissioner of the town, or the designee
thereof.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the town, or the designee thereof.
   FLAG. Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors,
patterns, or symbols used as a symbol of government, political subdivisions, or
other entity.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on or anchored in the ground, and that are independent from any building
or other structure.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the property within the zoning district in which it is
located, such as: “entrance,” “exit,” “no parking,” “loading zone,”
“telephone,” “drive-thru,” or other similar directives. No sign with a
commercial message sign legible from a position off the lot on which the sign
is located shall be considered INCIDENTAL.
   LOT. Any piece or parcel of land or a portion of a subdivision, the
boundaries of which have been established by some legal instrument of record,
that is recognized and intended as a unit for the purpose of transfer of
ownership.
   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to prove protection from the weather.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight, plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended by a rope, wire, or string, usually
in a series, designed to move in the wind.
   PERSON. Any association, company, corporation, firm, or partnership,
singular or plural, of any kind.
   POLITICAL SIGN. Any sign which espouses or endorses any political candidate,
party, or cause.
   PORTABLE SIGNS. A portable sign shall be defined as a sign which exceeds two
feet by two feet in size, is not designed to be permanently affixed to any
structure, and is designed to be readily movable.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located. Zone lots with multiple principal uses may have
multiple PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS, but storage buildings, garages, and other clearly
accessory uses shall not be considered PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner
that its leading edge extends more than six inches beyond the surface of such
building or wall.
   RESIDENTIAL SIGN. Any sign located in a district zoned for residential uses
that contains no commercial message except advertising for goods or services
legally offered on the premises where the sign is located, if offering such
service at such location conforms with all requirements of this chapter.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected or constructed wholly on or over the roof of a
building, supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above the
highest portion of the roof.
   ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL. Any sign erected or constructed as an integral part of
a normal roof structure of any design, such that no part of the sign extends
vertically above the highest portion of the roof and such that no part of the
sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more than six inches.
   SETBACK. The distance from the property line to the nearest part of the
applicable building, structure, or sign measured perpendicularly to the
property line.
   SIGN. Any device, fixture, placard, or structure that uses any color, form,
graphic, illumination, symbol, or writing to advertise, announce the purpose
of, or identify the purpose of a person or entity, or to communicate
information to any kind to the public.
   STREET. A strip of land or way subject to vehicular traffic, as well as
pedestrian traffic, that provides direct or indirect access to property,
including, but not limited to, alleys, avenues, boulevards, courts, drives,
highways, lanes, places, roads, terraces, trails, or other thoroughfares.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The distance for which a lot line adjoins a public street,
from one line intersecting said street to the furthest distance lot line
intersecting the same street.
   SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign that is suspended from the underside of a horizontal
plane surface and is supported by such surface.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. As opposed to a portable sign, is defined as an exterior
sign not affixed to any structure, attached only to the earth, and designed to
be easily removed.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign attached parallel to, but within six inches of, a wall,
painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits of an
outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such wall or
building, and which displays only one sign surface.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign, pictures, symbol, or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale, or
service that is placed inside a window or upon the window panes or glass and is
visible from the exterior of the window.
   ZONE LOT. A parcel of land in single ownership that is of sufficient size to
meet minimum zoning requirements for area, coverage, and use, and that provide
such yards and other open spaces as required by the zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-3) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.223 COMPUTATIONS.
   The following principles shall control the computation of sign area and sign
height.
   (A)   Computations of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face,
which is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face,
shall be computed by means of the smallest area that will encompass the extreme
limits of the writing, representation, emblem, or other display, together with
any material or color forming an integral part of the background of the display
or used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which
it is placed.
   (B)   Computations of area of multi-faced signs. The sign area for a sign
with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of all
sign faces visible from any one point. When two identical sign faces are placed
back-to-back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same
time, and when such sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are not
more than 42 inches apart, the sign area shall be computed by the measurement
of one of the faces.
   (C)   Computation of height.
      (1)   The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the
base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component
of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower of existing grade
prior to being, mounding, or excavating solely for the purpose of locating the
sign.
      (2)   In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be determined,
sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation of the
normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the nearest
point of the crown of a public street or the grade of the land at the principal
entrance to the principal structure of the zone lot, whichever is lower.
   (D)   Computation of maximum total permitted sign area and number,
dimension, and location for zone lot.
      (1)   The permitted sum of the area of all individual signs on a zone lot
and numbers, dimensions, and location shall be computed by applying the formula
contained in the following tables.
 
Maximum Total Sign Area per Zone Lot by Zoning District
Zoning district                   R1 R2 R3  C1   C2     C3  RMH LI  Govt./Inst.
Maximum number of total square    8  8  200 800  1,00 0 200 200 400 100
feet
Percentage of ground floor area   NA NA NA  10 % 8%     6%  NA  2%  NA
of principal building
Square feet of signage per linear NA NA 0.5 6    4      3   0.5 NA  0.5
foot of street frontage
 
Number, Dimensions, and Location of Individual Signs by Zoning
District
Sign type         R1 R2 R3 C1 C2  C3 RMH LI Govt./Inst.
Area (sq. ft.)    6  6  12 40 160 80 12  80 40
Height (ft.)      5  5  5  12 36  24 5   12 12
Setback (sq. ft.) 2  2  2  2  10  5  2   10 5
 
      (2)   Maximum total sign area and number, dimension, and location, or
wall area, as appropriate, for the zoning district in which the lot is located.
Lots fronting on two or more streets are allowed the permitted sign area for
each street frontage. However, the total sign area that is oriented toward a
particular street may not exceed the portion of the lot’s total sign area
allocation that is derived from the lot, building, or wall area frontage on
that street.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-4) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.224 SIGNS PERMITTED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Signs shall be allowed on private property within the town only in
accordance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-5) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.225 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   If a sign requiring a permit under this subchapter is to be placed,
constructed, erected, or modified on a zone lot, the owner of the lot shall
secure a sign permit prior to construction, placement, erection, or
modification of such sign in accordance with the requirements of §
156.232; and the property owner shall maintain in force, at all times, a sign
permit for such sign in accordance with §
156.233. No signs shall be erected on the public right-of-way except in
accordance with §
156.228 and the permit requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   No sign permits of any kind shall be issued for an existing or
proposed sign unless such sign is consistent with the requirements of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-6) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.226 DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, AND MAINTENANCE.
   All signs shall be designed, constructed, and maintained in accordance with
the following standards.
   (A)   All signs shall comply with the applicable provisions of the Uniform
Building and Electrical Codes at all times.
   (B)   Except for banners, flags, temporary signs, and window signs
conforming with the requirements of this subchapter, all signs shall be
constructed of permanent materials and shall be permanently attached to the
ground, a building, or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall,
frame, or structure.
   (C)   (1)   All signs shall be maintained in good and neat condition, in
compliance with all building and electrical codes, and in conformance with this
subchapter, at all times.
      (2)   If a sign is advertising an event, the sign must be taken down not
more than three days after the event has occurred.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-7) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.227 SIGNS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No signs shall be allowed in the public right-of-way, except for the
following:
   (A)   Permanent signs, including:
      (1)   Public signs erected by or on behalf of a governmental entity to
post legal notices, identify public property, convey public information, and
direct or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
      (2)   Informational signs of a public utility regarding its poles, lines,
pipes, or facilities; and
      (3)   Awning, projecting, and suspended signs projecting over a public
right-of-way in conformity with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Emergency warning signs erected by a government entity, a public
utility, or a contractor doing authorized or permitted work within the public
right-of-way; and/or
   (C)   Any sign installed or placed on public property not in conformance
with the requirements of this section, shall be forfeited to the public and
subject to removal and confiscation. In addition, to other remedies hereunder,
the town shall have the right to recover from the owner, or person placing such
sign, the full costs of removal and disposal of such sign(s).
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-8) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.228 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be exempt from regulation under this subchapter:
   (A)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state, or local law, regulation statute, or ordinance;
   (B)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door, that is
not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line of the
zone lot or parcel on which sign is located;
   (C)   Works of art that do not include a commercial message;
   (D)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message, but only
between November 15 and January 15;
   (E)   Traffic-control signs on private property, such as “Stop,” “Yield,”
and similar signs, the face of which meet the state’s Department of
Transportation standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort;
and
   (F)   Political signs, for which a sign removal bond has been posted, from
not more than 30 days prior to an election to not more than five days following
the election.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-9) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.229 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs not expressly permitted under this subchapter or exempt from
regulation hereunder in accordance with §
156.228 are prohibited in the town.
   (B)   Such signs include, but are not limited to: beacons, pennants, strings
of lights not permanently mounted to a rigid background (except those exempt
under this section), and inflatable signs and tethered balloons.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-10) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.230 GENERAL PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   The following procedures shall govern the application for, and issuance of,
all sign permits under this subchapter, and the submission and review of common
and master signage plans.
   (A)   Applications. All applications for sign permits of any kind of a plan
shall be submitted to the Commissioner on an application form or in accordance
with application specifications published by the Building Department.
   (B)   Fees. Each fee for a sign permit shall be established by the Council
by ordinance, upon recommendation of the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Completeness. Within five days of receiving an application for a sign
permit, the Commissioner shall review the application for completeness. If the
Commissioner finds that it is complete in accordance with this subchapter, the
application shall be processed. If the Commissioner finds that it is
incomplete, the Commissioner shall, within such five-day period, send to the
applicant a notice of the specific manner(s) in which the application is
deficient, with appropriate references to the applicable sections of this
subchapter.
   (D)   Action. Within seven days of the submission of a complete application
for a sign permit, the Commissioner shall either:
      (1)   Issue the permit, if the sign(s) that are the subject of the
application conform in every respect with the requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   Deny the application for permit if the sign(s) that are subject of
the application, fail in any way to conform with the requirements of this
subchapter. In the event of such denial, the Commissioner shall specify the
section or sections of this subchapter or the applicable plan with which the
application does not comply; or
      (3)   Refer the application for permit for review by the town’s Technical
Advisory Committee.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-11) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.231 PERMITS TO CONSTRUCT OR MODIFY SIGNS.
   Signs subject to this subchapter shall be erected, installed, or created
only in accordance with a duly issued and valid sign construction permit from
the Building Commissioner. Such permits shall be issued only in accordance with
the following requirements and procedures.
   (A)   Permit for new sign and sign modification. An application for
construction, creation, or installation of a new sign or for modification of an
existing sign shall be accompanied by detailed drawings to show the dimensions,
design, structure, and location of each particular sign, to the extent that
such details are not contained in a master signage plan or common signage plan
then in effect for the zone lot. One application and permit may include
multiple signs on the same zone lot.
   (B)   Inspections.
      (1)   The Commissioner shall cause an inspection of the zone lot for
which each permit for a new sign or for modification of an existing sign is
issued during the sixth month after issuance of such permit, or at such earlier
date as the owner may request.
      (2)   If the construction is not substantially complete and in full
compliance with this subchapter and the permit, the Commissioner shall affix to
the premises a red tag violation notice identifying the sign(s) and the
applicable permit by number or other reference.
      (3)   If the construction is substantially complete but not in full
compliance with this subchapter and the permit, the Commissioner shall give the
owner and applicant notice of the deficiencies and shall allow 30 days from the
date of inspection for the deficiencies to be corrected.
      (4)   If the deficiencies are not corrected by such date, the permit
shall lapse.
      (5)   If the construction is then complete, the Commissioner shall affix
to the premises the permanent symbol described above.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-12) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.232 TEMPORARY AND PORTABLE SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   Temporary signs on private property shall be allowed without the
issuance of a temporary sign permit, and shall be subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Distinguished from a portable sign;
      (2)   May not exceed two feet by two feet;
      (3)   Defined as an exterior sign not fixed to any structure, attached
only to the earth, and designed to be easily removed;
      (4)   Every parcel of property in residentially zoned areas shall be
permitted not more than one temporary sign at any given time;
      (5)   If for an event, the sign must be removed within two days following
the event; and
      (6)   No fee or permit is required for a temporary sign.
   (B)   Portable signs shall be subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Defined as a sign which exceeds two feet by two feet in size, is
not designed to be permanently affixed to any structure, and is designed to be
readily movable;
      (2)   May be displayed on any commercial area for special events for a
period not to exceed 30 days in any 60-day period;
      (3)   No more than one portable sign may be displayed on any one parcel
of property at any time;
      (4)   A permit shall be required for all portable signs, but no fee shall
be required;
      (5)   Provided that there is an existing primary sign advertising a
business located on an industrial parcel, a properly maintained portable sign
may be displayed permanently in industrially zoned areas with a permit and upon
payment of a fee pursuant to Figure 10A in §
156.004; and
      (6)   Portable signs are not permitted in residential areas for more than
two four-day periods per calendar year.
   (C)   Banners shall be subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   The term BANNERS shall encompass and govern all signs, balloons,
flags, and the like which are non-conforming with any other definition in this
code of ordinances;
      (2)   All sections in this subchapter apply to all zoning districts,
unless otherwise stated;
      (3)   In commercially zoned areas, any one banner of not more than 40
square feet may be displayed for a maximum of 60 days per calendar year;
      (4)   In residentially zoned areas, one banner may be displayed for a
maximum of ten days per calendar year;
      (5)   In industrially zoned areas, there is no limit on number of days
per calendar year in which a banner may be displayed; and
      (6)   No more than one banner may be displayed on any one parcel of
property at any time, except in industrially zoned areas. A parcel in an
industrially zoned area where no single-family residence is located may display
up to two banners at any one time.
   (D)   Lighted/moving portable signs are permitted under the same conditions
as portable signs above, provided that they don’t constitute a hazardous or
nuisance condition or violate any town lighting ordinance. Lighted signs in
residential districts may not be illuminated between 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
local time.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-13) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 156.233 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any of the following shall be a violation of this subchapter and shall
be subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided in §§
156.234 and
156.999:
      (1)   To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any plan or permit governing such sign or the zone lot on
which the sign is located;
      (2)   To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign requiring a permit
without such a permit;
      (3)   To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any plan or permit governing such sign or the zone lot on
which the sign is located;
      (4)   To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected, or
maintained in violation of this subchapter, or for which the sign permit has
lapsed; or
      (5)   To continue any such violation.
   (B)   Each such day of a continued violation shall be considered a separate
violation when applying the penalty portions of this subchapter. Each sign
installed, created, erected, or maintained in violation of this subchapter
shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalty portions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-14) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.234 ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation or attempted violation of this subchapter or of
any condition or requirement adopted pursuant hereto, may be restrained,
corrected, or abated, as the case may be, by injunction or other appropriate
proceedings pursuant to statute.
      (2)   A violation of this subchapter shall be considered a violation of
the building and chapters of the town.
      (3)   The remedies of the town shall include:
         (a)   Issuing a stop-work order for any and all work on any signs on
the same zone lot;
         (b)   Seeking an injunction or other order of restraint or abatement
that requires the removal of the sign(s) or the correction of the
nonconformity;
         (c)   Imposing any penalties that can be imposed directly by the town
under §
156.999(B) and (C);
         (d)   Filing a cause of action against the person or persons
responsible for the violations in a court of law for equitable or legal relief,
or both;
         (e)   In the case of a sign that poses an immediate danger to the
public health or safety, taking such measures as are available to the town
under the applicable provisions of the building code and the chapter.
   (B)   The town shall have such other remedies as may from time to time be
provided for or allowed by ordinance or statute. All such remedies may be
cumulative. To the extent that any particular remedy set forth herein shall be
limited or deemed to be unavailable for a certain violation or a part thereof,
such remedy shall remain available for other violations or other parts of the
same violation.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-15) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.235 PERMIT FEES FOR SIGNS.
 
Total Square Foot Area Fee
6–31                 $0.25/sq. ft.
32–137               $0.30/sq. ft.
138–255              $0.32/sq. ft.
256 and over           $0.33/sq. ft.
Miscellaneous Fees
Miscellaneous Fees
Administrative fee for all signs requiring a permit $10
Banners and flags                                   $0
Commercial permanent ground sign                    $300
Commercial permanent wall sign                      $100
Political signs                                     $0
Political sign removal bond                         $100
Portable sign                                       $0
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-17) (Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015; Ord. 2023-08-15-
1, passed 8-15-2023)
PARABOLIC AND DISH ANTENNAS
§ 156.250 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No parabolic or dish type antennas shall be made operational in the town
until the Building Commissioner shall certify in writing that both the
construction plans and the final construction meet the requirements of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-14-1)
§ 156.251 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARABOLIC OR DISH TYPE ANTENNAS. Any concave, circular, or dish shaped
device designed for receiving communication or television signals from a
satellite or any other source.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-14-2)
§ 156.252 REGULATIONS.
   All parabolic or dish type antennas located outside of the building shall
meet the following requirements.
   (A)   Maximum number per lot: One.
   (B)   Maximum height: 13 feet.
   (C)   Maximum diameter: Ten feet.
   (D)   Minimum setback from all property lines of lot: Ten feet.
   (E)   No antennas may be located in a front or side yard.
   (F)   All parabolic or dish type antennas shall be mounted so that the
center of the antennas is no higher above ground level than one-half the
diameter of the circle of the antennas.
   (G)   No parabolic or dish type antennas larger than 15 inches in diameter
shall be roof-mounted.
   (H)   All parabolic or dish type antennas shall be either the original
metallic color or white or earth tone colors so as to blend with the landscape.
   (I)   No parabolic or dish type antennas shall bear any printing, writing,
pictures, advertising, logos, or depiction of any type whatsoever; provided,
however, that the name and address of the owner, manufacturer, or installer may
appear in an area not to exceed two square feet.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-14-3)
§ 156.253 ENFORCEMENT; NUISANCES; REMEDIES.
   Any violation of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance, in
addition to any other relief provided by this chapter, the Town Attorney may
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for any remedy to prohibit the
continuation of any violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-14-4)
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 156.265 GENERAL REGULATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
   (A)   Purpose and scope. This section shall establish regulations for the
subdivision of land; for the dedication and acceptance of land for public use;
for the preparation of plats; for the installation of utilities, roadways, and
other improvements essential to service the subdivision plats within the
jurisdiction of the Plan Commission. This chapter shall be a part of the town’s
Master Plan and all the regulations and provisions of the ordinance codified
herein for development through zoning shall be in force in those newly
developed areas of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1-1)
   (B)   Jurisdiction. Whenever any subdivision of land shall be hereafter laid
out within the jurisdiction of the Commission as now or hereafter established,
the subdivider thereof, or his or her agent, shall submit both a preliminary
subdivision plan and a final subdivision plat to the Commission. Said plans,
plats, proposed improvements, and all procedures relating thereto shall in all
respects, be in full compliance with the regulations hereinafter contained in
this chapter. All lands offered to the town or the county for use as streets,
highways, alleys, parks, and other public uses shall be referred to the
Commission for review and recommendation before being accepted by the Council,
the Board of County Commissioners, or by any other governing authority.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1-2)
   (C)   Approvals, interpretations, and exceptions; procedures.
      (1)   Approval prior to plat filing. No land shall, after the adoption of
these regulations, be subdivided or filed for record; nor shall any street be
laid out nor any improvements be made to the land until the plan or plans of
the subdivision or street improvements shall have been certified to and
approved by action of the Commission. This approval must be in writing and
placed on the original tracing of the final plans according to the procedures
outlined in §
156.269.
      (2)   Approval prior to sales. No lot, tract, or parcel of land within
any subdivision shall be offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for
sale, or option be made or given until such subdivision plans have been
properly reviewed and officially approved by the Commission. No improvements
such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater drainage, sewage facilities, or
grading, paving, or surfacing of streets shall hereafter be made within any
such subdivision by any owner or owners, of his, her, or their agent, or by any
public service corporation at the request of such owner or owners, or his, her,
or their agent, until the plans for the subdivision and the plans for the
improvements thereto have been formally recommended and approved by the
Commission.
      (3)   Time limitations on approvals. Approvals of any proposed
subdivision for residential, commercial, or industrial development granted by
the Commission shall be in force and valid for a period not to exceed 36 months
following the date of such approval; provided that the person or persons to
whom such approval is granted shall have commenced construction within 24
months from the date of such approval, or shall have completed at least 30% of
the total development plan within 12 months after such construction has begun;
and shall have complied with the provisions of the development plans, the
provisions of the town’s Master Plan and supporting data upon which basis said
approval was granted. Failure to conform to the requirements of this division
may subject the subdividers, as a requirement by the Commission upon its own
motion resulting from a written petition by an aggrieved person, to show cause
why such approval should not be revoked and further development stopped;
provided, however, that no such order shall be issued for failure to commence
construction within 24 months after such construction has, in fact, commenced
although commenced after expiration of the 24-month period.
         (a)   Upon the determination by the Commission requiring the
subdivider to show cause pursuant to the provisions of this section, the
Commission shall set the same for public hearing, and cause written notice
thereof to be sent by registered mail to the subdivider, and to be published
according to the law. Such notice shall name a day not less than 15 days after
such notice is mailed and after the publication of notice of the date when such
hearing shall be held.
         (b)   If, after such hearing, upon evidence publicly presented to the
Commission by a member of the public, or officers or employees of the town,
including members of the Commission present in person at such hearing, the
Commission shall find that the person or persons to whom said approval was
granted and to whom subsequent improvement location permits were granted has
failed to carry to completion 30% of the total development plan within three
years after said date, or has failed materially to conform to the provisions
approved by the Commission, the Commission shall withdraw its approval of such
development plan and order such approval revoked; provided, however, that the
Commission may, if it deems such failure correctable within which such person
or persons may purge himself, herself, or themselves of such failure for no
longer than such period, during which period said hearing shall be continued to
a day certain at the end thereof.
      (4)   Variation or deviation front approved plans. The person or persons
to whom the aforementioned approval was granted may make written application at
that time for an alteration, change, amendment, or extension of the development
plan upon which such approval is based.
         (a)   Upon receipt of such written application, the Commission shall
proceed as in the case of the original application for approval.
         (b)   In the event the Commission shall approve and order such
development plan changed, altered, amended, or extended, it shall so notify the
Executive Secretary who shall issue an amended approval accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1-3)
   (D)   Approvals, interpretation, and exceptions; authority of Commission.
      (1)   In the event the Commission shall revoke an approval under the
authority of division (C)(3) above, it may thereafter grant approval for
another development of the same zoning category subject to all the provisions
and requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   All interpretations of these rules and regulations are reserved to
the administrative bodies referred to herein.
      (3)   The Commission may vary and make exceptions to the rules and
regulations set forth herein in instances where there is sufficient evidence,
in its opinion, of hardship caused by topography conditions, or where any other
reasonable deterrents prevail.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1-3.1)
§ 156.266 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word SHALL
is mandatory; the word MAY is discretionary; and all discretionary powers are
reserved to duly authorized officials of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-1)
   ACCESSORY BUILDING AND USE.
      (1)   A building or use subordinate to another structure or use located
on the same lot, and which does not change or alter the character of the
premises; and which is not used for human occupancy.
      (2)   Local public utility facilities, including electrical current,
sewer, gas, and water distribution wires and/or conduits with their supports,
poles, guy wires, transformers, wire, cables, and other incidental equipment,
and including public telephone booths.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-2)
   ALLEY. A permanent public service way providing a secondary means of access
to abutting lands.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-3)
   COMMISSION. The town’s Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-4)
   CROSS WALKWAY. A strip of land dedicated to public use which is reserved
across a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-5)
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having only one open end, and being permanently
terminated by a vehicle turn around.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-6)
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a land by the general
public, a corporation, or certain person or persons for a specified purpose or
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-7)
   FLOODWAY, COMMISSION. A floodway designated and established by order of the
state’s Flood Control and Water Resources Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-8)
   HALF STREET. A platted street measuring one-half the required width of the
appropriate classification of street.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-9)
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
ownership or for building development.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-10)
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to
restricted access primary streets and highways, and which provides access to
abutting properties and protection to local traffic from fast, through-moving
traffic on a primary street.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-11)
   MINOR STREET. A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-12)
   PARKWAY. A section of property between the curb and sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-13)
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivisions of land
intended to be filed for record.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-14)
   PRIMARY OR MAJOR STREET. A street of considerable continuity which serves or
is intended to serve as a major traffic artery connecting large areas, or as a
connector between major traffic arteries.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-15)
   PUBLIC STREET. All primary, secondary, minor, or cul-de-sac streets which
are shown on the subdivision plat and are to be considered dedicated for public
use.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-16)
   RECREATIONAL AREA. A portion of land within a subdivision dedicated to the
public use, or owned and maintained by a property owners association, and
devoted to recreational purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-17)
   SECONDARY OR COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from minor
streets to the major street system, including the principal entrance streets of
residential developments and streets for circulation within such a development.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-18)
   STREET. An area which serves or is intended to serve as a vehicular and
pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other streets, and is dedicated to
the public use.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-19)
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
public street.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-20)
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels
for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development; or if a new
street is involved, any division of land; provided that a division of land for
agricultural purposes is into lots or parcels of five acres or more and not
involving a new street shall not be deemed a subdivision.
      (2)   The term includes SUBDIVISION and, when appropriate to the context,
shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-21)
   SUBDIVISION, COMMERCIAL. A parcel of land not less than six acres in area
and zoned for commercial purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-23)
   SUBDIVISION, INDUSTRIAL. A parcel of land not less than 25 acres in area and
zoned for industrial purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-24)
   SUBDIVISION, RESIDENTIAL. The division of a parcel of land into three or
more lots, the dimensions of which shall not be less than the requirements set
forth in Figure 1 of §
156.004.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-22)
   THOROUGHFARE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan existing and proposed thoroughfares
within the town on which are designated the classification of such
thoroughfares.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2-25)
§ 156.267 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   This subchapter establishes certain minimum requirements governing
the design of all subdivisions and installation of improvements therein. The
development of land, including the arrangement, character, extent, width,
grade, and location of all streets, alleys, or other lands to be dedicated or
reserved for public use as well as the arrangement, grade, dimension, and
location of all building lots shall be considered in the relationship to
existing and planned improvements.
      (2)   Careful thought should also be given to topographic conditions, to
public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relationship, to the
proposed subdivision as a whole and the town in general.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3-1)
   (B)   Soil classification; testing required; data included in final plat;
special provisions. The classification of the soil at each building site and
all proposed public thoroughfares shall be determined when required by the
Commission. The Commission may require that this determination be made by an
engineer or architect licensed by the state as such.
      (1)   The classification shall be based on observation and any necessary
test of the materials disclosed by borings or excavations made in appropriate
locations. Additional studies may be necessary to evaluate soil strength, the
effect of moisture variation on soil bearing capacity, compressibility, and
expansiveness.
      (2)   The data derived from soil classification, design bearing capacity,
or any other tests which may be required by the Commission shall be shown on
the preliminary plan and shall be made a part of the final plat.
      (3)   Where such data indicates that adverse soil conditions exist, the
Commission may require that special provisions be made in the design and
construction of the foundations of the proposed subdivision so as to provide
safeguards against damage to such soil conditions.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3-2)
   (C)   Street standards; general requirements. The street plan shall provide
access to all lots and parcels of land within the subdivision.
      (1)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as
to provide usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
      (2)   Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through
traffic will be discouraged.
      (3)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing or proposed
street as shown in the thoroughfare development plan, the Commission may
require a marginal access street or reverse frontage with screen planting
contained in a non-access reservation; such reservation shall have a minimum
width of ten feet along the rear property line; or such other treatment as may
be adequate for the protection of residential properties, and to afford the
separation of through and local traffic.
      (4)   Half streets shall be prohibited except where they are essential to
the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and where the Commission or the Council find
it proper to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to the tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be planned within such tract.
      (5)   No street names may be used which may be confused with the names of
existing streets. Existing street names must be projected wherever possible.
      (6)   Alleys are not permitted except where deemed necessary, and such
decision shall be made by the Commission or the Council.
      (7)   Commercial and industrial subdivisions must be designed so as to
provide a minimum of one major entrance to and one major exit from the
development. Due consideration shall be given to potential traffic hazards and
congestion arising at the proposed points of ingress and egress.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3-3)
   (D)   Easements. Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines
shall be provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least 30 feet
wide or 15 feet on both sides or property lines. Where a subdivision is
traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream, there shall be
provided a stormwater easement or drainage right-of-way conforming
substantially with the lines of such watercourse; and such further width or
construction, or both, as will be adequate for the purpose. Parallel streets or
parkways may be required in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3-4)
   (E)   Block standards.
      (1)   The minimum length of blocks shall be 1,500 feet. When designated
by the Commission, blocks over 800 feet shall require crosswalks at the
approximate centers. The use of additional crosswalks or any other device for
providing safe and convenient access to schools, parks, or other similar
destinations shall be specified by the Commission at its discretion.
      (2)   No specific rule concerning the shape of blocks is made; but blocks
must fit easily into the overall plan of the subdivision, and their design must
have evident consideration of lot planning, traffic flow, and public areas.
      (3)   Blocks intended for commercial and industrial use must be
designated as such; and the plan must show adequate off-street areas to provide
for parking, loading docks, and such other facilities as may be required to
accommodate motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3-5)
   (F)   Lot standards; general. All lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated
street. Side lines of lots shall be approximately right angles to straight
streets, on radial a line to curved streets. Some variations from this rule are
permitted, but pointed or vary irregular lots should be avoided.
      (1)   Double-frontage lots are forbidden except where lots back up on a
primary street or a major thoroughfare; and, in such instances, vehicular
access between the lots and the thoroughfare is prohibited. Such lots shall
have an additional depth of at least ten feet to allow for a protective screen
planting.
      (2)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream shall
have adequate minimum usable area required for front, rear, and side yards.
      (3)   Building lines shall conform to the front yard provisions of §
156.004.
      (4)   In case of unusual soil conditions or other physical factors which
may impair the health, safety, or the general welfare of the neighborhood in
which the proposed subdivision is to be located, and upon recommendation of the
state’s Department of Environmental Management, the Commission may increase lot
requirements as may be necessary.
      (5)   In preparing the land for development and the installation of
improvements, no topsoil shall be removed from the subdivision.
         (a)   When grading lots is necessary to improve stormwater drainage or
to provide a level building site, every lot thus graded shall be seeded.
         (b)   Topsoil removed while grading for streets, alleys, or any other
paved public ways shall be redistributed over the several building sites.
         (c)   Finish grade shall be average level of the finished surface of
ground adjacent to the exterior wall of the building, shall be established upon
submission and approval of a drainage plan to the Drainage Board and Plan
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3-6)
   (G)   Lot standards; residential. The minimum requirements for lot
dimensions according to single-family dwelling use or multi-family dwelling use
are set forth in §
156.004. Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots so as to
allow maintenance of building fines on both streets.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3-7)
   (H)   Lot standards; commercial and industrial. Wherever possible, unit
shopping centers and industrial parks based on sound development practices and
standards should be designed in contract to the platting of lots for
individual, commercial, and industrial use.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3-8)
   (I)   Parks, schools, and public areas.
      (1)   (a)   Whenever a park, recreation area, school site, or other open
space shown on the thoroughfare development plan is located wholly within or is
a part of the proposed subdivision, the Commission may require the dedication
or reservation of those spaces to the town.
         (b)   If the Commission requires reservation, such reservation shall
not exceed a period of three years for parks or recreational areas, and not
more than five years for school sites.
      (2)   In a subdivision proposed to contain an average of more than two
lots per gross acre and containing 25 or more lots as shown on the preliminary
plan, at least one-half acre of open space for each 25 lots shall be platted
for community playgrounds or recreational use.
         (a)   The Commission, at its own discretion, may require all such land
in a subdivision, or unit of a subdivision, to be platted as a single parcel of
land, the least dimension of which shall be 145 feet.
         (b)   A public way or easement not less than 20 feet in width shall be
provided for access to the required open space.
         (c)   The Commission, at its own discretion, may require all such open
space or any part thereof to be permanently dedicated to the town; or, if
suitably protected by covenants, reserved to a private land owners association.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3-9)
   (J)   Regard for natural features. In the subdividing of any land, prior
regard shall be shown for all natural features such as tree growth,
watercourses, historic spots, or similar conditions which, if preserved, will
increase the attractiveness and value of the proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3-10)
§ 156.268 REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. All improvements shall be in accordance with the
town standards as set forth in this chapter, and all ordinances or regulations
in effect at the time the final plat of a subdivision is submitted for
approval. The specifications delineated in this subchapter are the minimum
requirements of the town, and shall be subject to upgrading when and where, at
the discretion of the Commission, such action is deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4-1)
   (B)   Street improvements. Streets and other public ways shall be classified
in one of four traffic classes, and the following shall be considered the
minimum dimensions unless otherwise noted.
 
Traffic Class               Width (Including Right-of- Width (of Paved Surface)
                            Way)
Alleys, driveways           20 ft.                     10–20 ft.
Feeder streets, subdivision
mains, and some light       80 ft.                     30 ft.
industrial
High volume mains and       100 ft.                    36 ft.
medium industrial
Light residential           60 ft.                     30 ft. (Plus a minimum 6
                                                       ft. of easement)
 
      (1)   (a)   The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall be 500 feet measured
along the centerline from the intersection at its origin through the center of
a circle to the centerline.
         (b)   Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of nearly circular shape
with a minimum diameter of 80 feet, unless the Commission approves an equally
safe and convenient form of space instead of the required turning circle.
      (2)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
      (3)   Clear visibility, measured along the center line of the street,
shall be provided for at least 300 feet on all primary streets; 200 feet on all
secondary streets; and at least 100 feet on all other streets.
      (4)   Edges of street pavement at intersections shall be rounded by a
minimum radius of 20 feet to permit smooth flow of traffic.
      (5)   If at all possible, existing streets will be brought up to the
above design requirements.
      (6)   (a)   The street surface, as well as the surface of other public
ways listed in the table above, shall be of a flexible-type pavement asphalt,
and shall be constructed in accordance with the following design
characteristics.
 
Traffic Class
Course              1     2     3       4
Asphalt binder      2 in. 2 in. 3.5 in. 4 in.
Asphalt surface     1 in. 1 in. 1.5 in. 2 in.
Comp aggregate base 6 in. 7 in. 8 in.   9 in.
 
         (b)   Where no aggregate base is established, the following criteria
would have to be met for the establishment of the street or other public way.
 
Traffic Class
Course          1     2     3       4
Asphalt base    3 in. 4 in. 6 in.   8 in.
Asphalt surface 3 in. 1 in. 1.5 in. 2.5 in.
 
            1.   The surface of the binder course shall meet the requirements
for materials and methods set forth in the latest edition of the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and Maintenance of the State
Highway Commission.
            2.   The base shall be primed with an asphalt material recommended
by the asphalt institute prior to the placing of the binder course.
            3.   The composite aggregate base shall meet the requirements set
forth in the aforementioned Standards, and representative.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4-2)
   (C)   Curbs and gutters. When used, curbs and gutters shall be placed
according to grades shown on plans, profiles, and cross sections approved by
the Council.
      (1)   They shall be constructed with plain portland cement concrete, and
in the manner shown for the integral or combined curbs except in the case of
arterial roads or streets where a separate curb may be required.
      (2)   Roll curbs may be used in feeder and residential roads or streets
when the distance between the back of the curb and nearest edge of a sidewalk
is three feet or more. Refer to the plans and specifications manual for the
town.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4-3)
   (D)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   (a)   Concrete sidewalks shall be provided by the subdivider
throughout the subdivision so as to serve the anticipated needs of its
residents and concentration of pedestrian traffic.
         (b)   Such sidewalks shall be installed concurrently with the
construction and placement of the streets, curbs, and gutters within the
subdivision, and that such sidewalks shall be located along property lines
coincidental with street right-of-way lines. All sidewalks within said
subdivision shall be constructed of portland cement to a thickness of not less
than four inches and a minimum width of five feet.
      (3)   The phrase “provided by the subdivider” shall be interpreted to
mean that the subdivider shall install the sidewalks referred to at his or her
expense and publicly dedicate the same.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4-4)
   (E)   Sewers.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete public
sewer system which shall connect with a sanitary sewer outlet, or for the
disposal of sanitary sewage by means of septic tanks with absorption systems or
seepage pits, all constructed according to the minimum requirements of the
state’s Department of Environmental Management.
      (2)   (a)   In this division (E) and division (F) below, the phrase “the
subdivider shall provide” shall be interpreted to mean that the subdivider
shall install the facility referred to, or that the subdivider shall require,
as a condition of the sale of each lot or parcel in the subdivision, that the
facilities referred to in these sections shall be installed by the developer of
the lot in accordance with these regulations which condition shall run with the
land.
         (b)   Upon the completion of the installation of a public sewer
system, the as-built plans for such a system shall be filed with the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4-5)
   (F)   Water. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete
water main supply system which shall be connected with the public water supply
system and installed in accordance with the minimum requirements.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4-6)
   (G)   Storm drains. In general, the post development release rates for
developments up to and including the 100-year return period storm may not
exceed 0.2 cfs per acre of development. For sites where the pre-development
area has more than one outlet, the release rates should be computed based on
pre-development discharge to each outlet point. The computed release rate for
each outlet point shall not be exceeded at the respective outlet point. The
computed release rate for each outlet point shall not be exceeded at the
respective outlet point even if the post development conditions would involve a
different arrangement of outlet points.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4-7)
   (H)   Street signs. Developer shall provide and install appropriate street
signs showing the names of the streets approved by the Commission and in
conformity with the existing street signs in the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4-8)
   (I)   Yard/street lights. The developer shall provide and install adequate
street lights within the development. Street lights shall be in the form
conforming to the ones presently installed in the town or dusk to dawn yard
lights of 100 watts or more located within ten feet of the street.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4-9)
(Ord. 1998-02-17A, passed 2-17-1998; Ord. 2016-04-19A, passed 4-19-2016; Ord.
2024-1-23, passed 12-19-2023; Ord. 2024-04-16, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 156.269 PROCEDURES FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Any owner or subdivider of land which is within the jurisdiction of
the Commission, wishing to divide the same into building lots for the purposes
of sale or assignment or both, or wishing to dedicate streets, alleys, or other
land for public use, shall first submit to the Commission a written application
for a certificate of approval and a preliminary plan of the proposed
subdivision in triplicate. Should the preliminary plan be approved, said owner
or subdivider shall then submit a final plan to the Commission for final
approval.
      (2)   (a)   Any owner or potential subdivider of land may, prior to
submitting an application for preliminary plan approval, seek the advice,
recommendations, and conceptual approval of the Technical Advisory Committee.
         (b)   Any such advice, recommendations, or conceptual approval
rendered by the TAC shall be merely advisory in nature, and shall not be
binding upon the Commission or the developer, and shall be subject to change,
alteration, addition, or withdrawal.
      (3)   The purposes of this division are to recognize basic or major flaws
in conceptual plans prior to the owner or subdivider undertaking the expenses
associated with developing a preliminary plan, and to review preliminary plan
requirements for inclusion in the proposal.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5-1)
   (B)   Preliminary plan approval.
      (1)   Application fee. At the time of filing an application for
preliminary plan approval, the application shall be accompanied by a certified
check or money order in the amount of $25, plus $0.25 for each lot in the
proposed subdivision, payable to the Clerk-Treasurer as an administrative cost
reimbursement for the review of the plans.
      (2)   Application submission. The application shall be in the form of a
letter dated and signed by the owner or developer, or on such form required by
the Commission, requesting preliminary plan approval, at least 30 days prior to
a regular meeting of the Plan Commission. However, it is recommended that
application be made more than 30 days in advance due to public hearing notice
requirements.
      (3)   Plan contents. Ten copies of the preliminary plans must be
submitted at the time of application, and shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision;
         (b)   Location by township, section, town, and range, or by other
legal description;
         (c)   Names and addresses of developer and designer who made the
plans;
         (d)   Scale of plans; one inch equal to 50 feet, or one inch equal to
100 feet, or as recommended by the Commissioner;
         (e)   Date;
         (f)   Northpoint;
         (g)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision indicated by solid heavy
line, and the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby;
         (h)   Location, widths, and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways; railroad and utility rights-of-way; parks and
other public open spaces; permanent buildings and structures, houses, or
permanent easements; and section and municipal corporation lines within or
adjacent to the tract;
         (i)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts, or other underground
facilities within the tract indicating pipe sizes, grades, manholes, and exact
location of all existing facilities;
         (j)   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided or subdivided
land, showing ownership where possible;
         (k)   Existing zoning of proposed subdivision and adjacent tracts in
zoned areas;
         (l)   Contour lines at two-foot intervals except where topography of
the tract demands one-foot contour intervals;
         (m)   Data derived from soil classification tests made pursuant to the
provisions of §
156.267(C);
         (n)   Layout of streets, widths of rights-of-way, and the widths of
crosswalks and easements;
         (o)   Layout, numbers, dimensions, and tentative elevations of lots;
         (p)   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use, or set aside for the use by property owners in the subdivision;
         (q)   Building set back lines, showing dimensions;
         (r)   Easements providing for any and all public utilities where
alleys are not provided. Proper continuity for the utilities from block to
block shall be maintained;
         (s)   Approved drainage;
         (t)   Parks or school sites proposed;
         (u)   Restrictions or covenants proposed; and
         (v)   The names and addresses of all owners of property within 300
feet of any point of the proposed site.
      (4)   TAC review. The Technical Advisory Committee shall review the
application and plans to determine whether they are in proper form and contain
the required information. This shall be done prior to publication of notice of
public hearing. If the plans or application contain any deficiency of form or
content, the applicant shall be notified of such deficiency. If the plans and
application are determined to be in proper form and contain the required
information, the TAC shall engage in a detailed analysis of the plans to
determine technical compliance with the requirements of this section, including
design standards, required land improvements, erosion control, and stormwater
drainage control. The TAC may propose and recommend changes, alterations,
additions, or omissions to the submitted plans to the applicant prior to the
public hearing before the Commission.
      (5)   TAC report. The Technical Advisory Committee shall submit a report
to the Plan Commission of its findings, conclusions, and recommendations
concerning the preliminary plans. The report may be submitted in writing prior
to the public hearing. The TAC may include in its report any recommended
conditions which should be placed upon preliminary approval, and/or technical
aspects of the Subdivision Control Ordinance which should be waived or
modified, and the reasons therefor. In addition, any documents prepared by, or
obtained by, the TAC in its review, shall be attached to its report.
      (6)   Public hearing. The Commission shall set a date for public hearing
on the preliminary plans, giving written notice thereof to the applicant, and
publishing same in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least 15
days prior to the date set for the hearing. The applicant shall be responsible
for providing individual notice to all owners of property within 300 feet of
any portion of the proposed site by certified mail, and shall provide proof
thereof at the public hearing.
      (7)   Preliminary approval. The Commission shall either grant preliminary
approval, grant approval upon such conditions as it deems necessary, deny
approval, or withhold action until further review by the TAC and/or the
Commission, but in no event for more than 30 days. The Commission may require
such changes or revisions as it deems necessary in the interest of the
community.
      (8)   Scope of preliminary approval. Preliminary approval shall be
tentative only, involving merely the general acceptance of the layout as
submitted. Preliminary approval shall be effective for a maximum of three years
unless, upon application of the developer, the Commission grants an extension.
If the final plat has not been recorded within this time period, the
preliminary plans must be re-submitted.
      (9)   Improvement location permits. Improvement location permits may be
issued upon the granting of preliminary approval, provided all requirements of
this chapter have been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5-2)
   (C)   Final plat approval.
      (1)   Application for final plat approval may be submitted no sooner than
30 days after preliminary plan approval is granted.
      (2)   At least three copies of the proposed final plat shall be
submitted.
      (3)   The Technical Advisory Committee shall review said proposed plat
for technical compliance with this section, and all conditions and requirements
imposed by the Commission in granting preliminary approval. The TAC shall
submit its report to the Commission prior to or at the meeting of the
Commission at which final approval is considered.
      (4)   The Commission shall consider at a regular meeting, the request for
final plat approval. The Commission shall either grant final approval or deny
final approval. It shall grant final approval unless it fails to comply with
the technical requirements of this section, and all conditions and requirements
imposed by the Commission in granting preliminary approval. Action must be
taken by the Commission within 45 days after submission of the proposed final
plat, unless both the applicant and the Commission agree to an extension. If no
action is taken within this time period, the final plat shall be considered
denied.
      (5)   Upon approval by the Commission, the developer shall record the
plat with the County Recorder.
      (6)   The original tracing of the final plat, or a print on tracing cloth
of the original tracing after the plat has been recorded, shall be filed and
retained in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, and a print shall be filed in
the office of the County Surveyor.
      (7)   The final plat shall contain the following information pertaining
to the identification and description of the subdivision:
         (a)   Name of subdivision;
         (b)   Location by township, section, town, and range, or by other
legal description;
         (c)   Names of owners and certification by a licensed surveyor or
professional engineer;
         (d)   Scale of one inch equal to 100 feet, or as recommended by the
Commission and to be shown graphically;
         (e)   Date;
         (f)   Northpoint;
         (g)   Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angular
and lineal dimensions;
         (h)   Exact location, width, and name of all streets within and
adjoining the plat; and the exact location and width;
         (i)   True angles and distances to nearest established street lines or
official benchmarks which shall be accurately described in the plat;
         (j)   Municipal, township, county, or section lines of previously
platted land accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distance and
angles;
         (k)   Radius angle of intersection, tangent length, length of curve,
PC’s and PT’s radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings
and lengths of all arcs shall be shown accurately;
         (l)   All easements for right-of-way provided for public service
utilities;
         (m)   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths of a foot;
         (n)   The corner lots of each block shall be surveyed and permanent
markers placed on all four corners. In addition, each fifth lot of a
subdivision block shall also be marked in a similar manner;
         (o)   The elevation of each lot is to be measured from mean sea level
and so designated on all lots;
         (p)   Accurate locations of all monuments which shall be concrete, six
inches by 30 inches with iron pipe cast in the center; permanent stone or
concrete monuments shall be set at each corner or angle on the outside
boundary; all United States, state, county, or other official benchmarks,
monuments, or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be
preserved in precise position;
         (q)   Accurate outline and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purpose indicated thereon, and
any of the areas to be reserved by deed or covenant for common use by all
property owners within the subdivision;
         (r)   Building setback lines accurately shown by dimensions;
         (s)   Protective covenants regulating the use and development of the
lots shall be lettered on the final plat, or made a part thereof, subject to
the approval of the Commission;
         (t)   Certification by a registered land surveyor or civil engineer to
the effect that the plat represents a survey made by him or her, and that
monuments and markers shown thereon exist as located, and that all dimensional
and geodetic details are correct;
         (u)   Notarized certification by owner or owners, or by any mortgage
holder on record, of the adoption of the plat and dedication of streets and
other public areas;
         (v)   Proper form for the approval of the Commission with space for
signatures; and
         (w)   Approval by signature of the President and Secretary of the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5-3) (Ord. 1994-5-7, passed 5-7-1994)
§ 156.270 AGREEMENTS, BONDS, WARRANTIES.
   (A)   Submittal of agreements. The final plat to be filed for record shall
be accompanied by a statement signed by the owner or owners and the subdivider
setting forth the following:
      (1)   Plans and specifications for all such improvements previously
approved by the Council, clearly describing the same; and
      (2)   An agreement executed by the owner or owners and the subdivider
wherein they agree to make and install the improvements provided for in §
156.269(C) in accordance with the plans and specifications accompanying the
final plat, and such other agreements entered into between the owner or owners
and the subdivider and a duly authorized official or officials of the town;
provided that such agreements are not in conflict with any provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6-1)
   (B)   Certification of bond. Sufficient certification that a bond has been
arranged and provided which shall:
      (1)   Run to the Council; and
      (2)   Be a performance bond or a cash bond, and which shall be in an
amount determined by the Commission sufficient to complete the improvements and
installations in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6-2)
   (C)   Certification of warranty bond. Arrange and provide a warranty bond
which shall:
      (1)   Run to the Council; and
      (2)   Warranty the workmanship and materials used in the installation of
all public thoroughfares, water systems, sewerage systems, and storm drainage
systems within the subdivision for a period of not less than three years
following the date of acceptance of such improvements by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6-3)
   (D)   Authorization to complete improvements. Any funds received from the
aforementioned bonds shall be used by the Council only for the completion of
the improvements and installations for which they were provided; and said Board
is authorized to complete such improvements and installation upon the failure
of the subdivider or the owners to do so.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6-4)
§ 156.271 FORMS FOR CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Survey certification.
State of Indiana, County of Porter, SS:
   I, __________________, hereby certify that I am a Professional Engineer or
Land Surveyor, licensed in the State of Indiana; and I do hereby further
certify that I have surveyed the property described in the above caption, and
that I have subdivided the same into blocks and lots as shown on the hereon
drawn plat. This plat correctly represents said survey and subdivision in every
detail. Monuments shown are in place as located. All lot corners are marked
with (see § 156.269(C)(7)(p)). Dimensions are in feet and decimal parts
thereof.
Dated this _____________ day of __________________
Signature: _______________________________
(Seal)
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7-1)
   (B)   Certificate of ownership.
State of Indiana, County of Porter, SS:
   We, ____________________   and _____________________   his or her partner,
do hereby certify that we are the owners of the property described in the above
caption, and that as such owners, we have caused the said property to be
surveyed and subdivided as shown on the hereon drawn plat of our own free and
voluntary act and deed.
_____________________________
(Seal)
_____________________________
(Additional certification if property is under Trusteeship)
   The undersigned as Trustee under the provisions of a deed or deeds in trust
duly recorded and delivered to said Trustee in pursuance of a trust agreement
dated _________________ and known as Trust No. __________ as owner caused this
subdivision and plat thereon to be made.
By: ________________________
Attest: ______________________
State of Indiana, County of Porter, SS:
   I, _________________________, a Notary Public in and for said County and
State, do hereby
certify that _________________ of the ____________________ and
____________________ of said ___________________ who are personally known to me
to be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument
as such and respectively appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged
that they signed and delivered the said instruments, their free and voluntary
act of said ________________ did also then and there acknowledge that he/she as
custodian of the corporate seal of the said trustee did affix the said seal of
the said trustee to the said instrument as his/her free and voluntary act, and
as the free and voluntary act of trustee for the uses purposed therein set
forth.
   Given under my hand and notarial seal this __________ day of
_______________, A.D.
___________________________________
Notary Public
___________________________________
Name Printed
My Commission Expires: ___________________
Resident County: ____________________
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7-2)
   (C)   Conveyance certification.
   I hereby certify that the proper and satisfactory conveyance of good title
to the Town of Hebron in incorporated areas, or to the County of Porter in
unincorporated areas, has been executed and filed with the proper local
authority applying to the right-of-way for streets, alleys, and easements, and
applying to land for parks, playgrounds, and for their public use.
______________________________
Date
______________________________
Town Attorney
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7-3)
   (D)   Engineering approval.
   This plat has been checked for conformance to Town of Hebron standards and
requirements, and working drawings and specifications for (list improvements)
have been prepared in conformance with the Town of Hebron standards and
requirements.
___________________________
Date
___________________________
Engineer
___________________________
___________________________
___________________________
Town Council
___________________________
Date
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7-4)
   (E)   Plan Commission approval.
   Approved by the Town of Hebron Plan Commission in accordance with
subdivision regulations.
By: ___________________________
   President
_______________________________
Date
By: ____________________________
   Secretary
_______________________________
Date
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7-5)
§ 156.272 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   General requirements. All public improvements proposed to be made
under the provisions of this chapter shall be inspected during the course of
construction by the governing authorities of the town or by such other person
or persons as the Council may designate to make such inspections.
      (1)   The installing contractor or the subdivider shall provide such
assistance to the Building Inspector as is necessary; and all fees and costs
connected with such inspections, including the reviewing of plans and
specifications for such improvements, shall be paid by the subdivider.
      (2)   The installing contractor or the subdivider, or their agents, shall
be required to notify the Building Inspector at least 48 hours in advance of
the need for each of the inspections required under divisions (B) and (C) below
(not to include Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays).
(Prior Code, § 2-3-8-1)
   (B)   Sewer, water, and drainage systems. Inspection shall be made of all
trenching after the bedding has been laid and before any conduit has been
installed. Inspection shall be made of connections, valves, fittings, and other
installed components of the various systems.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-8-2)
   (C)   Street and other thoroughfares, curbs, and gutters. Inspection shall
be made of all the following:
      (1)   All subgrading done in preparation for the installation of street
improvements;
      (2)   Of the subbase course;
      (3)   Of the granular base course;
      (4)   Of the binder course; and
      (5)   Upon completion.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-8-3)
§ 156.273 PERMITS.
   (A)   Improvement location permit. No improvement location permits shall be
issued for the construction of any building, structure, or improvement to the
land, or any lot within the subdivision defined herein which has been approved
for platting or replatting, until all requirements of this chapter have been
fully complied with.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-9-1)
   (B)   Certificate of occupancy. No occupancy permit shall be granted for the
use of any structure within a subdivision approved for platting or replatting
until the required utility facilities have been installed and made ready to
service the property, and that roadways providing access to the subject lot or
lots have been constructed or that are in the course of construction.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-9-2)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined not more than
$2,500 or the maximum amount provided for by I.C. 36-1-3-8(9) and (10). Each
day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-12-1)
      (1)   Injunction to restrain. The Commission, Board, and the Executive
Secretary of the Board and Commission, or any designated enforcement official,
or any person or persons, firm or corporation, jointly or severally aggrieved,
may institute a suit or injunction in the circuit court of the county to
restrain an individual or a governmental unit from violating any of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-12-2)
      (2)   Mandatory injunction. The Commission or the Board may also
institute a suit for a mandatory injunction directing any individual,
corporation or governmental unit to remove a structure erected in violation of
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-12-3)
      (3)   Nuisance. Any building or structure erected, raised, or converted,
or land or premises used in violation of any provisions of this chapter or the
requirements thereof, is hereby declared to be a common nuisance, and as such
may be abated in such a manner as nuisances are now or may hereafter be abated
under the existing law.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-12-4)
   (B)   Rules which will apply to all signs, regardless of type:
      (1)   All signs on commercial/industrial property must be professionally
made/printed (i.e., no hand-painted signs);
      (2)   All signs must be maintained in good condition. This includes, but
is not limited to, no fraying, tears, holes, sun bleaching, water damage, dirt,
paint, and so on. Solid signs must be maintained in a level condition;
      (3)   All signs must be solidly affixed in a way that does not allow for
flapping or movement, unless the sign is specifically designed to move (such as
a flag or banner);
      (4)   All portable signs with changeable copy shall not be missing
letters, wheels, be rusting or having non-function lights;
      (5)   No sign may obstruct pedestrian or vehicle view of any walkway,
motor way, parking lots, alleyways, driveways, and the like; and
      (6)   No signs may be placed on state or town property or easements
without a permit.
   (C)   Any non-conforming sign (applies to all signs) shall be red tagged.
Red-tagged signs must be corrected or removed within seven calendar days to be
corrected or removed. On the eighth day, the owner of the property shall be
assessed a fine of $25 per day until the sign is fixed or removed.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10-16)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not more than $2,500 or the maximum amount provided for
by I.C. 36-1-3-8(9) and (10) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues to
occur.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-14-5)
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §§
156.250 through
156.253 shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day on which
a violation occurs or continues to occur. Sections
156.250 through
156.253 shall be subject to the town’s Ordinance Violations Bureau as set out
in
Chapter 33.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-14-6)
(Ord. 2015-06-16, passed 6-16-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FUNDS
TABLE I: FUNDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
-          - -         Capital Improvement Fund
                     (Prior Code, §§ 42-63, 2-301, and 2-302)
-          - -         Cumulative Capital Development Fund
                     (Prior Code, § 2-321)
2001-09-19 9-18-2001   Unsafe Building Fund
                     (Prior Code, § 10-36)
                      
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
 
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite           Code Section
1-1-4-1 et seq.     10.02
5-3-1               31.18
5-3-1-2             156.038
5-3-1-4             156.038
2-3-1 et seq.       156.020
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.  156.038
5-14-3-2            34.02
5-14-3-3(a)         34.02
5-14-3-4            34.02
5-14-3 et seq.      34.02
5-22-1-1 et seq.    31.16
8-1.5               50.01
8-1.5-3-4           50.01
8-1.5-3-9.1         50.02
9-21-9-3            71.16
9-21-9-4            71.16
9-25-4-4            71.18
9-30-3-6            130.99
14-28-1             153.65
14-28-2 et seq.     156.001
14-28-1-26          153.65
22-9-1-4 et seq.    92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.    92.01
22-9.5-2-2          92.02
22-9.5-2-3          92.02
22-9.5-2-4          92.02
22-9.5-2-8          92.02
22-9.5-2-9          92.02
22-9.5-2-11         92.02
22-9.5-2-13         92.02
22-9.5-3            92.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.    92.10
D+>I.C. Cite        Code Section
22-9.5-4-8          92.11
22-9.5-5-1          92.03
22-9.5-6            92.02;
                    92.11
22-11-14-2          91.15
22-11-14-6          91.17
22-11-14-8(a)       91.15;
                    91.17
22-11-14 et seq.    91.16;
                    91.21
22-12-1-3           150.19
31-6-4-15.7         130.15
31-37-19-27         130.15
34-28-5-4           152.03
33-6-3-1 et seq.    33.01
34-28-5-1           130.99
36                  32.080
36-1-3-8(9)         10.99;
                    156.999
                    10.99;
36-1-3-8(10)        51.99;
                    156.999
36-1-4-11           155.02;
                    155.10
36-1-5-3            10.01
36-1-5-6            10.03
36-1-6-1            93.02
36-1-6-1 et seq.    10.99
36-1-6-2            155.10
36-1-6-4            50.37
36-1-20.2           32.021
36-1-21             32.021
36-5-2-4.1          11.01
36-5-2-9.4          32.021
36-5-7              30.15
36-5-7-1 et seq.    30.15
36-7-4              153.01;
                    155.02
36-7-4-202          156.015
36-7-4-1000 et seq. 156.042
36-7-9-1            150.16
36-7-9-1 36-7-9-28  150.16
36-7-9-2            150.15
36-7-9-4            150.15
36-7-9 et seq.      150.18
36-7-10.1           93.02
36-7-10.1 et seq.   93.02
36-7-14-1           30.03
36-7-14-6.1         30.03
36-7-14-7           30.03
36-9-23-32(b)       52.09
36-9-23-33(c)(1)    52.09
36-10-3-17          94.21
37-7-4-901.5        156.035
                    
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code Code Section
Prior Code     Code Section
1-1            10.01
1-2            10.02
1-3            10.03
1-4            10.04
1-5            10.05
1-6            10.06
1-7            10.07
1-8            10.08
1-9            10.99
1-10           10.09
1-11           10.10
1-12           10.11
1-13           10.12
1-14           10.13
2-1            34.03
2-1-1-1        156.001
2-1-1-2        156.001
2-1-1-3        156.001
2-1-1-4        156.001
2-1-1-5        156.001
2-1-1-6        156.001
2-1-1-7        156.001
2-1-1-8        156.001
2-1-1-9        156.001
2-1-1-10       156.001
2-1-1-11       156.001
2-1-1-12       156.001
2-1-1-13       156.001
2-1-1-14       156.001
2-1-1-15       156.001
2-1-1-16       156.001
2-1-1-17       156.001
2-1-1-18       156.001
2-1-1-19       156.001
2-1-1-20       156.001
2-1-1-21       156.001
2-1-1-22       156.001
2-1-1-23       156.001
2-1-1-24       156.001
2-1-1-25       156.001
2-1-1-26       156.001
2-1-1-27       156.001
2-1-1-28       156.001
2-1-1-29       156.001
2-1-1-30       156.001
2-1-1-31       156.001
2-1-1-32       156.001
2-1-1-33       156.001
2-1-1-34       156.001
2-1-1-35       156.001
2-1-1-36       156.001
2-1-1-37       156.001
2-1-1-38       156.001
2-1-1-39       156.001
2-1-1-40       156.001
2-1-1-41       156.001
2-1-1-42       156.001
2-1-1-43       156.001
2-1-1-44       156.001
2-1-1-45       156.001
2-1-1-46       156.001
2-1-1-47       156.001
2-1-1-48       156.001
2-1-1-49       156.001
2-1-1-50       156.001
2-1-1-51       156.001
2-1-1-52       156.001
2-1-1-53       156.001
2-1-1-54       156.001
2-1-1-55       156.001
2-1-1-56       156.001
2-1-1-57       156.001
2-1-1-58       156.001
2-1-1-59       156.001
2-1-1-60       156.001
2-1-1-61       156.001
2-1-1-62       156.001
2-1-1-63       156.001
2-1-1-64       156.001
2-1-1-65       156.001
2-1-1-66       156.001
2-1-1-67       156.001
2-1-1-68       156.001
2-1-1-69       156.001
2-1-1-70       156.001
2-1-1-71       156.001
2-1-1-72       156.001
2-1-1-73       156.001
2-1-1-74       156.001
2-1-1-75       156.001
2-1-1-76       156.001
2-1-1-77       156.001
2-1-1-78       156.001
2-1-1-79       156.001
2-1-1-80       156.001
2-1-1-81       156.001
2-1-1-82       156.001
2-1-2-1        156.002
2-1-2-2        156.002
2-1-3-1        156.015
2-1-3-2        156.016
2-1-3-3        156.017
2-1-3-4        156.018
2-1-3-5        156.019
2-1-3-7        156.020
2-1-4-1        156.035
2-1-4-2        156.036
2-1-4-3        156.037
2-1-4-4        156.038
2-1-4-6        156.039
2-1-4-7        156.040
2-1-4-8        156.041
2-1-4-11       156.042
2-1-5-1        156.070
2-1-5-3        156.071
2-1-5-4        156.072
2-1-5-5        156.073
2-1-5-6        156.074
2-1-5-7        156.075
2-2-1-1        156.090
2-2-1-2        156.090
2-2-2-1        156.091
2-2-2-2        156.091
2-2-2-3        156.091
2-2-2-4        156.091
2-2-2-5        156.091
2-2-2-6        156.091
2-2-2-7        156.170 
               156.179
2-2-3-1        156.092
2-2-3-2        156.093
2-2-3-3        156.094
2-2-4-1        156.105
2-2-4-2        156.106
2-2-4-3        156.107
2-2-4-4        156.108
2-2-4-5        156.109
2-2-4-6        156.110
2-2-4-7        156.111
2-2-4-9        156.112
2-2-4-10       156.113
2-2-5-1        156.125
2-2-5-2        156.126
2-2-6-1        156.140
2-2-6-2        156.141
2-2-7-1        156.155
2-2-7-2        156.156
2-2-7-3        156.157
2-2-8-1        156.190
2-2-8-2        156.191
2-2-9-1        156.205
2-2-9-2        156.206
2-2-9-3        156.207
2-2-9-4        156.208
2-2-10-1       156.220
2-2-10-2       156.221
2-2-10-3       156.222
2-2-10-4       156.223
2-2-10-5       156.224
2-2-10-6       156.225
2-2-10-7       156.226
2-2-10-8       156.227
2-2-10-9       156.228
2-2-10-10      156.229
2-2-10-11      156.230
2-2-10-12      156.231
2-2-10-13      156.232
2-2-10-14      156.233
2-2-10-15      156.234
2-2-10-16      156.999
2-2-10-17      156.235
2-2-11-1       156.003
2-2-11-2       156.003
2-2-12-1       156.999
2-2-12-2       156.999
2-2-12-3       156.999
2-2-12-4       156.999
2-2-13-1       156.004
2-2-13-2       156.004
2-2-13-3       156.004
2-2-13-4       156.004
2-2-13-5       156.004
2-2-13-6       156.004
2-2-13-7       156.004
2-2-13-8       156.004
2-2-13-9       156.004
2-2-13-10      156.004
2-2-13-11      156.004
2-2-13-12      156.004
2-2-14-1       156.250
2-2-14-2       156.251
2-2-14-3       156.252
2-2-14-4       156.253
2-2-14-5       156.999
2-2-14-6       156.999
2-3-1-1        156.265
2-3-1-2        156.265
2-3-1-3        156.265
2-3-1-3.1      156.265
2-3-2-1        156.266
2-3-2-2        156.266
2-3-2-3        156.266
2-3-2-4        156.266
2-3-2-5        156.266
2-3-2-6        156.266
2-3-2-7        156.266
2-3-2-8        156.266
2-3-2-9        156.266
2-3-2-10       156.266
2-3-2-11       156.266
2-3-2-12       156.266
2-3-2-13       156.266
2-3-2-14       156.266
2-3-2-15       156.266
2-3-2-16       156.266
2-3-2-17       156.266
2-3-2-18       156.266
2-3-2-19       156.266
2-3-2-20       156.266
2-3-2-21       156.266
2-3-2-22       156.266
2-3-2-23       156.266
2-3-2-24       156.266
2-3-2-25       156.266
2-3-3-1        156.267
2-3-3-2        156.267
2-3-3-3        156.267
2-3-3-4        156.267
2-3-3-5        156.267
2-3-3-6        156.267
2-3-3-7        156.267
2-3-3-8        156.267
2-3-3-9        156.267
2-3-3-10       156.267
2-3-4-1        156.268
2-3-4-2        156.268
2-3-4-3        156.268
2-3-4-4        156.268
2-3-4-5        156.268
2-3-4-6        156.268
2-3-4-7        156.268
2-3-4-8        156.268
2-3-4-9        156.268
2-3-5-1        156.269
2-3-5-2        156.269
2-3-5-3        156.269
2-3-6-1        156.270
2-3-6-2        156.270
2-3-6-3        156.270
2-3-6-4        156.270
2-3-7-1        156.271
2-3-7-2        156.271
2-3-7-3        156.271
2-3-7-4        156.271
2-3-7-5        156.271
2-3-8-1        156.272
2-3-8-2        156.272
2-3-8-3        156.272
2-3-9-1        156.273
2-3-9-2        156.273
2-4-1-1        156.055
2-4-1-2        156.056
2-4-1-3        156.057
2-4-1-4        156.058
2-31           11.01
2-32           34.01
2-61           30.01
2-81           50.15
2-82           50.16
2-83           50.17
2-84           50.18
2-85           50.19
2-86           50.20
2-87           50.21
2-111          51.01
2-112          51.02
2-113          51.03
2-114          51.04
2-115          51.05
2-116          51.06
2-117          51.07
2-118          51.08
2-142          52.01
2-143          52.02
2-144          52.03
2-145          52.04
2-146          52.05
2-147          52.06
2-150          52.07
2-152          52.25
2-153          52.26;
               52.99
2-154          52.27
2-155          52.28
2-156          52.29
2-157          52.42
2-158          52.41
2-159          52.40
2-160          52.41
2-161          52.41
2-162          52.42
2-163          52.42
2-164          52.42
2-165          52.55
2-166          52.56
2-167          52.57
2-168          52.58
2-169          55.01
2-170          55.02
2-171          55.03
2-172          55.04
2-173          55.05
2-174          52.08
2-175          52.09
2-176          50.35;
               50.99
2-177          50.36
2-178          50.37
2-179          50.99
2-221          30.02
2-222          30.02
2-271          31.01
2-301          TSO, Table I
2-302          TSO, Table I
2-321          TSO, Table I
2-341          31.15
2-342          31.16
2-343          31.17
2-344          31.18
2-371          33.01
2-372          33.02
2-373          33.03
2-374          33.04
2-375          33.05
2-401          32.001
2-402          32.002
2-403          32.003
2-404          32.004
2-405          32.005
2-421          32.020
2-422          32.021
2-423          32.022
2-424          32.023
2-425          32.024
2-426          32.025
2-427          32.026
2-428          32.027
2-429          32.028
2-430          32.029
2-431          32.030
2-432          32.031
2-433          32.032
2-434          32.033
2-435          32.034
2-451          32.045
2-452          32.046
2-453          32.047
2-454          32.048
2-455          32.049
2-456          32.050
2-457          32.051
2-481          32.065
2-482          32.066
2-483          32.067
2-501          32.080
2-502          32.081
2-503          32.082
2-504          32.083
2-521          32.095
2-522          32.096
2-523          32.097
2-524          32.098
2-551          34.02
2-552          34.02
2-553          34.02
2-554          34.02
3-1-2-2        53.99
6-1            90.01
6-2            90.02
6-3            90.02
6-4            90.03
6-5            90.03
6-6            90.04
6-31           90.15
6-32           90.16
6-33           90.17
6-34           90.18
6-35           90.19
6-36           90.19
6-37           90.20
6-38           90.21
6-39           90.22
6-40           90.99
6-41           90.23
10-1           150.01;
               150.99
10-31          150.15
10-32          150.16
10-33          150.17
10-34          150.18
10-35          150.19
10-36          TSO, Table I
10-37          150.20
14-31          111.01
14-32          111.02
14-33          111.03
14-34          111.04
14-35          111.05
14-36          111.99
14-61          110.01;
               110.99
14-62          110.02
14-63          110.03
14-64          110.04
14-65          110.05
14-66          110.06
14-67          110.07
14-68          110.08
14-69          110.09
14-70          110.10
14-71          110.11
14-72          110.12
14-73          110.13
14-74          110.14
14-91          112.01
14-92          112.02
14-93          112.03;
               112.99
14-94          112.04
14-95          112.05
14-96          112.06
14-97          112.07
18-32          91.15
18-33          91.16
18-34          91.17
18-35          91.18
18-36          91.19
18-37          91.20
18-38          91.21
18-39          91.99
18-51          91.01;
               91.99
               153.01 
               153.13;
               153.25;
22-1           153.26;
               153.40 
               153.46;
               153.60 
               153.68
26-31          93.01
26-32          93.02
26-33          93.03
26-34          93.04
26-35          93.05
26-36          93.06
26-37          93.07
26-38          93.08
26-39          93.09
26-40          93.10
26-61          93.26
26-62          93.26
26-63          93.26
26-64          93.26
26-65          93.27
30-31          92.01
30-32          92.02
30-33          92.03
30-34          92.04
30-35          92.05
30-36          92.06
30-37          92.07
30-38          92.08;
               92.99
30-39          92.09
30-40          92.10
30-41          92.11
34-1           30.15
34-2           30.16
34-3           30.17
34-5           30.18
38-1           130.01
38-31          130.02;
               130.99
38-61          130.15
38-62          130.16
38-63          130.99
38-82          130.30
38-83          130.31
38-84          130.32
38-85          130.33
38-86          130.99
42-31          94.01
42-32          94.02
42-33          94.03
42-34          94.04
42-35          94.05
42-36          94.06
42-37          94.07
42-38          94.08
42-39          94.99
42-61          94.20
42-62          94.21
42-63          TSO, Table I
42-64          94.22
46-31          30.03
46-32          30.03
46-33          30.03
50-1           53.01
50-31          53.02
50-32          53.03
50-61          53.04
54-1           152.01;
               152.99
54-2           152.02
54-3           152.03
54-51          152.15
54-52          152.16
54-53          152.17
54-54          152.18
54-55          152.19
54-56          152.20
54-57          152.21
54-58          152.22
54-59          152.23
54-60          152.24
54-61          152.25
54-91          150.02
54-92          150.99;
               152.99
54-101         71.15
54-102         71.16
54-103         71.17
54-104         71.18
58-31          151.01
58-32          151.02
58-33          151.03
58-34          151.04
58-35          151.05
58-36          151.06
58-37          151.07
58-38          151.08
58-39          151.99
62-31          70.01;
               70.99
62-32          70.02;
               70.99
62-33          70.03;
               70.99
62-34          70.04;
               70.99
62-35          70.05;
               70.99
62-36          70.06;
               70.99
62-37          70.07;
               70.99
62-38          70.08;
               70.99
62-39          70.09;
               70.99
62-71          72.01;
               72.99
62-72          72.02;
               72.99
62-73          72.03;
               72.99
62-74          72.04;
               72.99
62-75          72.05;
               72.99
62-101         93.27
62-102         93.27
62-103         93.27
62-104         93.27
62-131         70.25
62-132         70.26;
               70.99
62-133         70.27;
               70.99
62-161         70.10;
               70.99
62-162         Schd. I
62-163         70.11;
               70.99
62-164         72.06;
               72.99
62-181         71.01
62-182         71.02
62-183         71.03
62-184         71.04
62-185         71.99
66-31          50.01
66-32          50.02
66-81          51.20
66-82          51.21
66-83          51.22
66-84          51.23
66-85          51.24
66-86          51.25
66-87          51.99
66-101         54.01 
               54.11
70-31          93.25
70-32          93.25
70-33          93.25
70-34          93.99
70-35          93.25;
               93.99
               155.01 
App. A; App. A 155.13;
               155.99
               154.01 
App. A; App. B 154.04;
               154.15 
               154.20
App. A; App. C 156.005
               
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
2004-7-20A   7-20-2004   32.051
2024-10-15-3 10-15-2024  31.02
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
1994-5-7      5-7-1994    156.093;
                          156.269
1994-5-17     5-17-1994   156.071;
                          156.107
1995-0418     4-18-1995   51.07
1995-0516-B   5-16-1995   53.02
1996-220A     2-20-1996   156.126
1996-220-PC-2 2-20-1996   156.004
1996-0820     8-20-1996   51.07
1997-2-18     2-18-1997   152.01;
                          152.99
1997-09-02    9-2-1997    32.048;
                          32.050
1997-09-16-A  9-16-1997   30.18
1998-02-17A   2-17-1998   156.268
1998-0519     5-19-1998   30.02
1998-06-23    6-23-1998   31.15 
                          31.18
                          153.01 
                          153.13;
                          153.25;
1998-08-18A   8-18-1998   153.26;
                          153.40 
                          153.46;
                          153.60 
                          153.68
1998-12-15    12-15-1998  32.080 
                          32.083
2000-07-18    7-18-2000   156.094
2000-08-15    8-15-2000   53.01
2000-10-17    10-17-2000  90.15
2000-11-21    11-21-2000  156.001
2000-11-21B   11-21-2000  32.048
2000-12-28A   12-28-2000  32.047
2001-03-20    4-11-2001   51.07
                          151.01 
01-05-15      5-15-2001   151.08;
                          151.99
                          150.15 
2001-09-19    9-18-2001   150.20;
                          TSO, Table I
2001-11-20    11-20-2001  32.095 
                          32.098
2002-1-15     1-15-2002   34.02
2002-03-19    3-19-2002   31.01
2002-05-06    5-6-2002    32.048
2002-05-21    5-21-2002   32.048
                          111.01;
2002-05-21A   5-21-2002   111.03;
                          111.04;
                          111.99
2002-05-21B   5-21-2002   32.049
2002-8-20A    8-20-2002   51.07
2002-11-19C   11-19-2002  93.25
2002-06-18B   6-18-2002   111.02
2003-04-15    4-15-2003   156.206
2003-5-20     5-20-2003   93.25
                          154.01 
2004-01-A     1-13-2004   154.04;
                          154.15 
                          154.20
                          154.01 
2004-01-B     1-13-2004   154.04;
                          154.15 
                          154.20
2004-01-27    1-27-2004   30.02;
                          30.03
2004-4-2A     4-20-2004   32.026
5-4-2004      5-2-2004    156.004
                          111.01 
2004-07-20    7-20-2004   111.05;
                          111.99
2004-08-24    8-24-2004   152.02
                          110.01 
2005-08-16A   8-16-2005   110.14;
                          110.99
                          70.01 
2005-12-27    12-27-2005  70.09;
                          70.99
2006-1-17A    1-17-2006   33.02
2006-6-20     6-20-2006   156.003
2006-9-19     9-16-2006   156.003
2006-10-17A   10-17-2006  33.03
2007-2-20A    2-20-2007   32.045
                          91.15 
2007-6-19     6-19-2007   91.21;
                          91.99
2007-10       7-10-2007   33.03
2008-5-20     5-20-2008   33.02
2008-6-17     6-17-2008   33.03
2008-7-15A    7-15-2008   51.07
2009-2-17     2-7-2009    51.07
2009-3-17     3-17-2009   30.17
2009-8-18B    8-18-2009   51.07
2009-12-22    12-22-2009  32.049
2010-03-16    3-16-2010   51.07
2010-04-20    4-20-2010   32.049
2011-02-15    2-15-2011   32.022
2011-12-20    12-20-2011  130.01
2012-04-17A   4-17-2012   130.01
                          71.15 
2012-05-15    5-15-2012   71.18;
                          71.99
2012-06-19    6-19-2012   32.021
2012-07-17    7-17-2012   156.004
2012-09-18    9-18-2012   93.27
2013-04-16    2-19-2013   156.070
                          71.01 
                          71.04;
2013-04-16A   4-16-2013   71.15 
                          71.18;
                          71.99
2013-09-17    9-17-2013   156.179
2013-11-19A   11-19-2013  150.01;
                          150.99
2013-11-19B   11-19-2013  91.01;
                          91.99
2014-05-20    5-20-2014   156.107
2014-05-20A   5-20-2014   156.004
2014-09-16    9-16-2014   156.004
2014-09-16A   9-16-2014   156.071;
                          156.074
                          112.01 
2014-09-16B   9-16-2014   112.07;
                          112.99;
                          130.01
2014-09-16C   9-16-2014   94.21
2014-11-18    11-18-2014  93.25;
                          93.27
2014-12-16C   12-16-2014  72.05
                          156.220 
2015-06-16    6-16-2015   156.235;
                          156.999
                          153.01 
                          153.13;
                          153.25;
2015-6-16A    6-16-2015   153.26;
                          153.40 
                          153.46;
                          153.60 
                          153.68
2015-12-22    12-22-2015  34.03
2016-03-22    3-22-2016   156.020
2016-03-22(A) 3-22-2016   30.18
2016-04-19    4-19-2016   156.020
2016-04-19A   4-19-2016   156.268
2016-4-19B    4-19-2016   112.03;
                          112.99
2017-01-17A   1-17-2017   32.049
2017-02-21A   2-21-2017   156.070
                          92.01 
2017-03-21    3-21-2017   92.11;
                          92.99
2018-09-18-01 9-18-2018   93.01 
                          93.10
                          90.01;
2018-10-16-03 10-16-2018  90.16 
                          90.23;
                          90.99
2018-11-20-03 11-20-2018  33.03
2018-11-20-05 11-20-2018  30.18;
                          72.06
2020-01-28-02 1-28-2020   32.049
2021-01-19    1-19-2021   54.01 
                          54.11
2021-04-20-1  4-20-2021   156.001
2021-04-20-2  4-20-2021   156.090
2021-04-20-3  4-20-2021   152.22
2021-12-20    12-20-2021  51.07
                          50.35 
                          50.37;
                          50.99;
                          52.01 
                          52.09;
                          52.25 
2021-12-20-1  12-20-2021  52.29;
                          52.40 
                          52.42;
                          52.55 
                          52.58;
                          52.99;
                          55.01 
                          55.05
2022-2-15-3   2-15-2022   32.049
                          130.30 
2023-03-21-2  3-21-2023   130.33;
                          130.99
                          154.01 
2023-08-08-3  8-8-2023    154.04;
                          154.15 
                          154.20
2023-08-15-1  8-15-2023   156.235
2023-08-15-2  8-15-2023   156.004
2023-08-15-3  8-15-2023   32.048
2023-1-21     12-19-2023  51.07
2023-11-21-1  12-19-2023  52.08
2023-12-19-1  12-19-2023  94.21
2024-1-23     12-19-2023  156.268
2024-04-16    4-16-2024   156.268
                         
 
