COUNTY OF HENDRICKS, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-50, passed 12-10-2024; and
State law current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2025 Acts, Pamphlet No.
3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known, and designated, as the
“Hendricks County Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously-existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly-enacted laws. Any previously-existing law, or amendment
thereto, reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if
it had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously-existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this, or any subsequent, codification in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases, having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law, shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the county.
      COUNCIL. The County Council.
      COUNTY. The County of Hendricks, Indiana.
      COUNTY CLERK. The Clerk of the County Council.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to, and includes, person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following, or next preceding,
that in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the county is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Includes printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the WRITTEN SIGNATURE of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended, or
its application to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division, or part, of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with, and
so dependent upon, the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before, or after, the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable, as provided in division (B)
above, does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend, and apply, to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCES TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this county exercising
the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of
any transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the County
Council or Board of Commissioners refers to any board, bureau, commission,
division, department, officer, agency, authority, or instrumentality of any
government, and that name designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective
date of that ordinance, or following the effective date, the rights, powers,
duties, or liabilities placed with that entity are or were transferred to a
different entity; then the named board, bureau, commission, department,
division, officer, agency, authority, or instrumentality, whether correctly
named in the ordinance at its effective date or not, means that correctly named
entity, or the entity to which the duties, liabilities, powers, and rights were
transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected; the use of a word, or words, to which no
meaning can be attached; or the use of a word, or words, when another word, or
words, was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected and the word, or words, supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
      (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time, or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act, or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall
be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any
section shall not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability
incurred under the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides.
The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of
sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty,
forfeiture, or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations, or any requirement of notice,
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising, or acts committed, prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof, as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced, and imposed, as if this code had not been
enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers, shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNTY COUNCIL AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
36.   FINANCES
      
37.   FEES AND SCHEDULES
      
38.   TAXATION
      
39.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: COUNTY COUNCIL AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
30.01   Establishing election precincts
   
30.02   Election precincts
§ 30.01 ESTABLISHING ELECTION PRECINCTS.
   (A)   I.C. 3-11-1.5 requires that precinct boundaries comply with the
directives of said law.
   (B)   A precinct description and map of the boundaries of each precinct
established and submitted to the State Election Division is attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2015-40, passed 11-24-2015; Ord. 2023-05, passed 2-14-2023)
§ 30.02 ELECTION PRECINCTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish County
Commissioners and County Council election districts.
   (B)   County Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   The County Executive shall divide the county into three districts
that are composed of contiguous territory and are reasonably compact. The
Executive may not divide precincts but may divide townships only when division
is clearly necessary to accomplish redistricting.
      (2)   The county is divided into three County Commissioner Districts
designated numerically as follows:
         (a)   District 1: Center Township, Clay Township, Eel River Township,
Franklin Township, Liberty Township, Marion Township, Middle Township and Union
Township are in the First Commissioner District.
         (b)   District 2: Brown Township, Lincoln Township and the precincts
north of U.S. 36 to Washington Township are in the Second Commissioner
District.
         (c)   District 3: Guilford Township and the precincts south of U.S. 36
in Washington Township are in the Third Commissioner District.
   (C)   County Council.
      (1)   The County Executive shall, by ordinance, divide the county into
four contiguous, single-member County Council Election Districts. The Executive
may not divide precincts when redistricting.
         (a)   One member of the fiscal body shall be elected by the voters of
each of the four districts.
         (b)   Three at-large members of the fiscal body shall be elected by
the voters of the whole county.
      (2)   Single-member districts must:
         (a)   Be compact, subject only to natural boundary lines (such as
railroads, major highways, rivers, creeks, parks and major industrial
complexes);
         (b)   Contain as nearly as possible, equal populations; and
         (c)   Include whole townships, except when a division is clearly
necessary to accomplish redistricting under this section.
      (3)   A division shall be made during the first year after a year in
which a federal decennial census is conducted.
      (4)   The county is divided into four County Council Election Districts
designated numerically as follows:
         (a)   District 1: Precincts east of S.R. 267 in Washington Township
EXCEPT Washington precinct 16. Also, Lincoln Township precinct 10.
         (b)   District 2: Brown Township (entire). Also, Lincoln Township
EXCEPT precincts Lincoln 8 and 10.
         (c)   District 3: Clay Township (entire), Franklin Township (entire),
Guilford Township (entire), Liberty Township (entire), and Marion Township
(entire).
         (d)   District 4: Center Township (entire), Eel River Township
(entire), Middle Township (entire), Union Township (entire). Also, Lincoln
Township precinct 8 and Washington Township precinct 16.
(Ord. 2013-26, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2021-75, passed 12-28-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Division of county into districts, see I.C. 36-2-3-4
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Policy for starting salaries
   
31.02   Deferred compensation, release of firearms; Sheriff’s Department
   
31.03   Hours worked for exempt employees, First Deputy defined
   
31.04   Retiree health benefits
   
31.05   PERF coverage exclusions
   
31.06   Assistant Engineer as Civil Right Coordinator
   
31.07   County Auditor; financial corrections
   
31.08   County Prosecutor; Bad Check Collection Program
   
31.09   County Treasurer; additional duties, prohibitions
   
31.10   Disclosure of contracts with relatives
   
31.11   Prohibiting nepotism
   
31.12   Conflict of interest policy
   
31.13   Electronic meetings policy
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 POLICY FOR STARTING SALARIES.
   (A)   General. The determination of a county employee’s salary is under the
authority of the County Council, as established by I.C. 36-2-5-3.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATOR (DEPARTMENT HEAD). An individual elected, or appointed, who
supervises employees and is responsible for the operation of the office for
which he or she is elected, or appointed, and in the case of a DEPARTMENT HEAD,
a supervisory employee appointed, or employed, by the Board of Commissioners,
or other governing body, to direct and supervise an office or activity.
      APPLICANT. A new hire eligible for employment from inside the county
government organization, or outside of the county government organization.
      COUNTY GOVERNMENT WAGE SCALE. The official wage scale adopted by the
County Council which contains three salary amounts for each job classification,
and these amounts are contained under the categories of “minimum”, “midpoint”,
and “maximum”; used to determine starting salary.
      FORMAL STARTING SALARY. The official written salary offer authorized and
sent to the applicant by the human resources department after an administrator
is consulted, and a determination is made on the starting salary.
      INFORMAL STARTING SALARY. A salary amount that may be discussed with a
job applicant by an administrator during a job interview process, which amount
complies with the salary guidelines established by this section.
      SALARY. The wages either calculated at per hour rate for non-exempt
employees, or the annual dollar amount for exempt employees.
   (C)   Salary determination process.
      (1)   An administrator may discuss with an applicant an informal starting
salary at minimum of the wage scale. Any informal salary offer is the decision
of the administrator. Before a formal salary offer is made, the administrator
must notify the human resources department and receive the approval of the new
hire and the starting salary. The administrator is to use the requisition form
from the human resources department to obtain the acknowledgment. The formal
written salary offer to an applicant must be done by the human resources
department.
      (2)   An administrator should not discuss a starting salary offer above
the minimum of the wage scale without first securing the approval of the human
resources department. The administrator will need to provide a written
explanation to the human resources department demonstrating the applicant has
either experience and/or education above the minimum required by the job
description for consideration of a starting salary above the minimum. The
administrator will use the Employee Requisition Form from the human resources
department to make the request. The education and experience criteria will be
used as a guide for approval of the requested starting pay.
      (3)   An administrator shall not extend any salary offer to an applicant
above midpoint of the salary range without first securing the approval of human
resources, and of the full County Council. The administrator will need to
provide written justification using the Employee Requisition Form. The criteria
for making a determination will be the applicant’s experience and/or education
attainment above the minimum required for the position. Requesting an offer
above midpoint should be infrequent, and any Administrator making a request
will have to present a strong case. Consideration for approving an offer above
the midpoint will require more time to process, and an additional
appropriation. It is the responsibility of the administrator to request the
necessary additional appropriation from the County Council, which meets
monthly.
      (4)   Any formal written salary offer to an applicant must be done by the
human resources department.
   (D)   Exemptions. The county government has a number of departments that are
managed by elected officials. These departments may have a position(s) with the
title of Chief Deputy, or other similar job title, and the person in the
position is strictly appointed by, and serves at the pleasure of, the elected
official making the appointment. By adoption of this policy, these positions
are classified as special occupations. The special occupation classification is
intentionally not shown as a job category on the county wage scale. Because
these appointees serve directly at the will and pleasure of an elected
official, and because most of these positions are established by state statute,
the following exception is made: The salary for any position which is directly
appointed by an elected official and serves at the will, and the pleasure of,
an elected official shall be paid at the budgeted salary amount, and is not
subject to starting salary procedures established by this section.
   (E)   Administration. The implementation of this section requires
cooperation between the administrators and the human resources department.
Administrators are encouraged to contact the human resources department when
consideration is being given to fill a vacant position. The decision to hire an
applicant to fill a vacant position is the function of an administrator, and is
not a function of the County Council; however, the determination of a starting
salary is the function of the County Council. Any formal written salary offer
to an applicant will be made by the County Council through the human resources
department. Any salary offer that does not comply with the provisions of this
section will not be recognized, and the applicant will not be employed by the
county.
(Council Res. 2017-12, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 31.02 DEFERRED COMPENSATION, RELEASE OF FIREARMS; SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Deferred compensation.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a Deferred
Compensation Plan for the County Sheriff’s Department to allow for the
voluntary participation of employees of such Sheriff’s Department.
      (2)   The Sheriff’s Department will utilize the Deferred Compensation
Plan established by the County Sheriff’s Department known as the State
Sheriff’s 457(b) Plan, and participate in the group trust arrangement
established by that Deferred Compensation Plan; and the Sheriff is authorized
to sign the adoption agreement to participate in the Deferred Compensation
Plan.
      (3)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby authorize the County
Auditor to make deductions from the pay of employees of the Sheriff’s
Department who voluntarily participate in the Deferred Compensation Plan, and
to deposit the deferrals in the trust. The County Board of Commissioners also
authorizes the committee to be made up of representatives of the Sheriff’s
Departments participating in the Plan (as determined by participating Sheriff’s
Departments) to make such other arrangements as are necessary to implement the
Plan. It is understood that, other than the incidental expenses related to
collecting the employees’ deferrals, and other minor administrative matters,
there is to be no cost to or contribution by the county to this Plan.
   (B)   Release of firearms.
      (1)   This division (B) shall effect the County Sheriff’s Department
employees who have retired after January 1, 1995.
      (2)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall have the authority to
release, to the retiring Sheriff’
      (3)   The retiring Sheriff’s Department employee must have served
honorably as a member of the County Sheriff’s Department for a minimum of 20
years.
      (4)   The Sheriff’s Department employee must have met the statutory
requirements to have been eligible to participate in the County Police
Retirement Plan during the entire said minimum 20-year period.
(Ord. 1996-19, passed 5-20-1996; Ord. 2011-07, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 31.03 HOURS WORKED FOR EXEMPT EMPLOYEES, FIRST DEPUTY DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXEMPT EMPLOYEE. An employee exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act
overtime provisions because the employee meets the following criteria:
      (1)   The employee performs executive, administrative, or professional
duties;
      (2)   Income is at least $455 per week;
      (3)   The employee is paid an established salary regardless of number of
hours worked;
      (4)   The employee experiences no reduction in pay for absences of less
than one day; and
      (5)   Exempt employees are expected to average 70 hours over a two-week
pay period.
   FIRST DEPUTY. An individual appointed by an elected official who is
authorized to perform the official duties of the elected official, and is
subject to the same regulations and penalties as the elected official. A FIRST
DEPUTY shall take the oath required of the elected official who makes the
appointment (hereinafter referred to as ADMINISTRATOR in the absence of the
elected official). An official appointed to his or her position is expected to
average 70 hours over a two-week pay period.
(Res. 12-10, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 31.04 RETIREE HEALTH BENEFITS.
   (A)   I.C. 5-10-8-2.6 requires a state local unit of government to provide
retired employee health care benefits equal in coverage to active employees.
   (B)   Any employee hired, or an elected official who starts his or her first
term on, or after, January 1, 2015, who subsequently retires from the county
with eligible health insurance benefits and wishes to continue the benefit, the
employee shall be required to pay both employee and employer premium at
retirement, and will pay any increases in premiums during the period of time
the retiree maintains the health care benefit.
(Res. 14-21, passed 4-8-2014)
§ 31.05 PERF COVERAGE EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Positions not covered. The following new positions of the county are
not covered by PERF:
      (1)   Executive Advisor; and
      (2)   Executive Director.
   (B)   Part-time employees. Since March 6, 1973, the county has sought, and
intended to include, within PERF coverage all of its full-time employees, while
excluding part-time employees. This distinction has not been, and is not, made
solely pursuant to PERF’s definition of part-time employees in I.C. 5-10.3-7-2.
Rather, the county has defined full-time and part-time employment in its
written policies and procedures. Since 1973, the county has excluded, and
continues to excludes, from PERF coverage:
      (1)   Any employees who are not expected to work more than 1,000 hours
per year, pursuant to I.C. 5-10.3-7-2;
      (2)   Any employees holding a position explicitly identified in any
resolution excluding the positions from coverage; and
      (3)   Any employees who are expected to work more than 1,000 hours per
year but are considered, for purposes of entitlement, to participate in all of
the county’s employee benefits to be part-time employees under the county’s
written policies and procedures.
(Council Res. 2016-08, passed 4-14-2016; Res. 2016-10, passed 5-10-2016)
§ 31.06 ASSISTANT ENGINEER AS CIVIL RIGHTS COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Assistant Engineer is designated as the Title VI Coordinator for
the county.
   (B)   A notice of the county’s commitment to comply with Title VI shall be
posted at county government locations, and shall be accessible on the county’s
website at www.co.hendricks.in.us.
   (C)   The County Government Grievance Procedure, under Title VI, is adopted
as the grievance procedure for addressing complaints alleging discrimination on
the basis of race, color, or national origin in the provision of services,
activities, programs, or benefits by the county government.
   (D)   In compliance with federal and state laws, as set forth in divisions
(A) through (C) above, the County Board of Commissioners resolves to post the
required information regarding Title VI, coordinate notice under Title VI, and
the County Government Title VI Grievance Procedure on its website, and at such
other locations as may be determined from time to time.
(Res. 2016-11, passed 5-10-2016)
§ 31.07 COUNTY AUDITOR; FINANCIAL CORRECTIONS.
   The County Auditor, in coordination with the County Financial Administrator,
are hereby authorized to make financial appropriation corrections and
adjustments for $100, or less, to correct administrative errors by the
department heads, elected officials, County Council, and the County Auditor.
(Council Res. 2018-28, passed 12-4-2018)
§ 31.08 COUNTY PROSECUTOR; BAD CHECK COLLECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)    The County Prosecutor may establish a Bad Check Collection Program
through the office of the Prosecutor whereby any person who is the payee or
holder of a bad check, and who intends to prosecute the issuer of the bad check
under state statute if such check is not made good, may:
      (1)   Authorize the Prosecutor to contact the issuer of the bad check to
determine if such person wishes, and intends, to make the check good in
accordance with state statute in lieu of suffering prosecution;
      (2)   Authorize the Prosecutor to collect, on behalf of the payee or
holder of the bad check, a protest and service fee in such amount as the
Prosecutor may stipulate and fix on a uniform bases (which may be a fixed
dollar amount or a percentage of the value of the bad check), but which may not
exceed the amount permitted under state statute;
      (3)   Authorize the Prosecutor to retain all protest and services
collected by the Prosecutor pursuant to division (A)(2) above in consideration
of the services provided to the payee or holder by the Prosecutor; and/or
      (4)   The Prosecutor may waive the collection of the fee if the
Prosecutor finds that probable cause for prosecution no longer exists.
   (B)   Upon implementation of the Bad Check Collection Program, as authorized
by division (A) above, the Prosecutor may establish, and maintain, a trust
checking account into which shall be deposited the principal amount of any bad
check, along with all other fees collected from the issuer thereof. Checks from
such account may be written to the payee or holder of the bad check to whom the
money is lawfully due without appropriation. All fees collected pursuant to
division (A) above shall be regularly delivered to the County Treasurer, not
less than monthly, in the manner of fees collected by county officers, for
deposit in the Prosecutor’s Special Fee Fund established hereinafter in
division (C) below.
   (C)   The Prosecutor’s Special Fee Fund is hereby established. The purpose
of the Fund is for deposits of monies received under divisions (A) and (B)
above. The County Council may only appropriate monies on deposit in the
Prosecutor’s Special Fee Fund for purposes of the Prosecutor’s Office at the
discretion of the Prosecutor, although such appropriations may be made for any
purpose. County monies may lawfully be appropriated to the Prosecutor’s Office,
and need not be necessary by limiting to attributable costs of the functions
and services from which the fees derive.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 3-20-1995)
§ 31.09 COUNTY TREASURER; ADDITIONAL DUTIES, PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Investment of public funds.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-1, the County Treasurer is the Investing
Officer of the county.
      (2)   Investments authorized by this division (A) may not exceed 50% of
the funds held by the Investing Officer and available for investment. This
limitation does not apply to investments made by the County Treasurer between
the date that is ten days before each property tax installment is due, and the
property tax settlement distribution date.
      (3)   The portfolio of the investment company, or investment trust
described in this division (A)(3) must be limited to the following: U.S.
Treasury securities; Federal Instrumentality securities; time certificates of
deposit; repurchase agreements; money market mutual funds; local government
investment pools; CDARS (Certificate of Deposit Registry); negotiable
certificates of deposit; and municipal securities.
      (4)   The form of securities of, or interests in, an investment company
or investment trust described in division (A)(3) above must be rated as either:
         (a)   AAAm, or its equivalent, by Standard and Poor’s Corporation, or
its successor; or
         (b)   Aaa, or its equivalent, by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or
its successor.
      (5)   Investments made pursuant to this division (A) shall be made
through depositories designated by the State Board of Finance as depositories
for state deposits.
   (B)   Collections, audit of innkeeper’s taxes.
      (1)   Innkeeper’s tax shall be paid monthly to the County Treasurer.
      (2)   The Treasurer may create forms for use by taxpayers for filing and
collection of innkeeper’s tax.
      (3)   For lodging facilities obligated to collect innkeeper’s tax, a
monthly report shall be submitted to the Treasurer, along with payment of any
innkeeper’s tax collected, by the twentieth of the month following the month of
collection (for example, an innkeeper’s tax monthly report shall be submitted
by February 20 for activity in January).
      (4)   For the purposes of this division (B), an innkeeper’s tax monthly
report shall be considered timely submitted if the envelope used to mail the
report, and any payment, via first class U.S. mail is postmarked on the
twentieth of the month, or before. The Treasurer shall also accept monthly
reports and any payments at the Treasurer’s Office.
         (a)   A monthly report is due from any lodging facility covered by the
innkeeper’s tax law even if no innkeeper’s tax has been collected in the
previous calendar month.
         (b)   If the twentieth of the month falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday, the innkeeper’s tax monthly report shall be submitted by the
next following business day.
         (c)   Any monthly reports submitted the after the due date must
include a penalty calculated at 10% of the innkeeper’s tax paid, or to be paid,
without prorating for the number of days that the monthly report is overdue.
      (5)   Recognizing that I.C. 6-9-29-3 provides that the Treasurer has the
same rights and powers with respect to collecting the innkeeper’s tax as does
the Department of State Revenue, the Treasurer is authorized to conduct audits
and investigations of taxpayers concerning collection and payment of the
innkeeper’s tax. Specifically, but not exclusively, the Treasurer may examine
the books, records, papers, or other data bearing on the correctness of
innkeeper’s tax returns, including those pertinent records of third parties
handling funds for the credit of, or acting as an agent for, any lodging
facility subject to the innkeeper’s tax.
      (6)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-8.1-3- 12(h), the Treasurer has concurrent
jurisdiction with the State Department of Revenue to investigate and audit the
innkeeper’s tax returns and reports; further, pursuant to 6-8.1-3-12(h), at the
discretion of the Treasurer, the cost of the audit of the innkeeper’s tax may
be charged or assessed against the lodging facility audited.
      (7)   After completion of the audit, the results of the audit will be
provided to the lodging facility by the audit firm or Treasurer.
      (8)   Upon receipt of the audit results, the Treasurer shall either:
         (a)   Remit to the lodging facility the amount of the innkeeper’s tax
overpaid; or
         (b)   Send a statement to the lodging facility for the amount of the
innkeeper’s tax due, requesting payment within 30 business days of the date of
the statement.
      (9)   The Treasurer may retain accountants or investigators for purposes
of conducting audits of lodging facilities subject to the innkeeper’s tax; the
Treasurer may retain legal counsel for purposes of the bringing of enforcement
actions for collection of innkeeper’s tax and cost thereof.
   (C)   Information obtained; prohibited.
      (1)   The county hereby prohibits information obtained from the County
Treasurer to be used for a commercial purpose.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (C), COMMERCIAL PURPOSES shall
mean to sell, advertise, or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods, or
services, or sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver the information
obtained by the request to any other person (as defined in I.C. 5-14-3-2) for
these purposes. Use of information received under division (B)(4) above in
connection with the preparation or publication of new, for nonprofit,
activities, or for academic research is not prohibited. A person who uses
information in a manner contrary to a rule or ordinance adopted under this
division may be prohibited by the state agency or political subdivision from
obtaining a copy or any further data under division (B)(4) above.
      (3)   A violation of this division (C) will cause the person, entity,
corporation, company, or proprietorship to be prohibited from obtaining any
further information from the county.
      (4)   The county will charge $200 to mortgage companies for providing
full tax files to assist with their escrow payments of taxes to the county.
      (5)   Any and all fees and fines collected as a result of this division
(C) shall be placed in a separate Treasurer Technology Fund for the purchase of
specific items not contained in the Treasurer’s regular budget.
(Ord. 2003-08, passed 4-1-2003; Council Ord. 2006-29, passed 12-14-2006;
Council Ord. 2012-21, passed 8-16-2012; Ord. 2016-16, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 31.10 DISCLOSURE OF CONTRACTS WITH RELATIVES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. A County Commissioner or County Council member.
      RELATIVE.
         (1) Any of the following:
            (a)   Spouse;
            (b)   Parent or step-parent;
            (c)   Child or step-child;
            (d)   Brother, sister, step-brother, or step-sister;
            (e)   Niece or nephew;
            (f)   Aunt or uncle; or
            (g)    Daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (2)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual. The terms BROTHER and SISTER shall include a brother or
sister by half-blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Application to certain contracts.
      (1)   The county may enter into a contract, or renew a contract, for the
procurement of goods and services, or a contract for public works, with an
individual who is a relative of an elected official, or a business entity that
is wholly, or partially, owned by a relative of an elected official only if
disclosure requirements under this section are satisfied.
      (2)   Contracts in existence at the time the term of office of the
elected official begins are not affected until those contracts are renewed.
   (C)   Disclosure of contracts with relatives.
      (1)   An elected official whose relative enters into a contract with the
county shall file a full disclosure of that contract.
      (2)   The disclosure statement must be in writing, describe the contract
or purchase to be made by the county, describe the relationship that the
elected official has to the individual or business entity that contracts or
purchases, and be affirmed under penalty of perjury.
      (3)   The disclosure statement must be submitted to the County Board of
Commissioners, and be accepted by the Board in a public meeting prior to final
action on the contract or purchase.
      (4)   The disclosure statement must be filed not later than 15 days after
final action on the contract or purchase with the State Board of Accounts, and
the County Clerk of the Circuit Court.
   (D)   Actions by the County Board of Commissioners, or appropriate agency.
The County Board of Commissioners, or an appropriate agency of the county
designated by the Board, shall make a certified statement that the contract
amount or purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered, or make
a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or contractor was selected.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the county. Each elected officer
of the county shall annually certify, in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this section. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the County Board of Commissioners no later
than December 31 of each year.
(Res. 12-09, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 31.11 PROHIBITING NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the County Council or County Board of Commissioners to make
decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets, or personnel policies of the
county.
      EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the county on a full-time,
part-time, temporary, intermittent, or hourly basis. The term does not include
an individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the county. The performance of
the duties of a precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that
are imposed by I.C. 3 is not considered employment by the county.
      RELATIVE.
         (1) Any of the following:
            (a)   Spouse;
            (b)   Parent or step-parent;
            (c)   Child or step-child;
            (d)   Brother, sister, step-brother, or step-sister;
            (e)   Niece or nephew;
            (f)   Aunt or uncle; or
            (g)    Daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (2)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual. The terms BROTHER and SISTER shall include a brother or
sister by half-blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Nepotism prohibited.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives shall not be employed by the county
in a position that results in one relative being in the direct line of
supervision of the other relative.
      (2)   An individual shall not be promoted to a position if the new
position would cause his or her relative to be in the direct line of
supervision of that individual.
      (3)   Individuals who are employed by the county on the date the
individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected office in the county,
and the individual is in the direct line of supervision of the newly elected
official, are prohibited from remaining in that position.
      (4)   An individual who is a spouse of the County Sheriff may not be
employed by the county as prison matron for the county under I.C. 36-8-10-5.
      (5)   An individual who served as the County Coroner is currently
ineligible to serve due to term limits under Article 6 § 2(b) of the
Constitution of the State, has receive certification under I.C. 36-2-14-22.3,
and whose successor in the office of the County Coroner is a relative may not
be employed by the county in the Office of the County Coroner.
   (C)   Exceptions to prohibition against nepotism.
      (1)   This section does not abrogate or affect an employment contract
with the county that an individual is a party to, and is in effect, on the date
the individual’s relative begins service of a term of an elected office of the
county.
      (2)   This section does not apply to individuals who are employed by the
county on the date the individual’s relative began serving a term of an elected
office in the county, and the individual is in the direct line of supervision
of the newly-elected official.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a spouse of the County Sheriff
employed by the county as prison matron for the county under I.C. 36-8-10-5.
      (4)   This section does not apply to an individual who served as the
County Coroner, is currently ineligible to serve due to term limits under
Article 6 § 2(b) of the Constitution of the State, has receive certification
under I.C. 36-2-14-22.3, and whose successor in the office of County Coroner is
a relative.
   (D)   Impact of section on those employed by the county on July 1, 2012. An
individual who is employed by the county on July 1, 2012, is not subject to
this section unless the individual has a break in employment with the county.
The following are not considered a break in employment with the county:
      (1)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick, or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation; or
      (2)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated followedg
by immediate re-employment by the unit, without loss of payroll time.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the county. Each elected officer
of the county shall annually certify, in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this section. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the County Board of Commissioners no later
than December 31 of each year.
(Res. 2012-08, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 31.12 CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   (A)   No officers or employees of the county shall neither solicit nor
accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from consultants,
potential consultants, or parties to subagreements, unless in accordance with
this section. For purposes of the State Department of Transportation Policy,
and the Code of Federal Regulations, the county establishes a dollar value
threshold of $250 per occurrence. Any financial interest under $250 shall be
considered not substantial in accordance with the above-mentioned Code of
Federal Regulations.
   (B)   This section conforms to the standards set forth in the Code of
Federal Regulations and by the State Department of Transportation. A CONSULTANT
is defined as an individual or firm providing engineering and design-related
services as a party to a contract with a recipient or subrecipient of federal
assistance.
(Res. 2017-51, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 31.13 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A) Adoption of policy.
      (1)   The provisions of Pub. L. No. 88-2021 (HEA 1437), § 5, amended I.C.
5-14-1.5-1 et seq. (“the Act”), including definitions, apply to this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “electronic meetings policy” of
the County Council and applies to the County Council and any committee
appointed directly by the County Council or its presiding officer.
   (B)   General policy.
      (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) below, any member may participate
in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the fiscal body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   Physical versus electronic attendance.
      (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a meeting
at which a member will participate by means of electronic communication. Not
more than 50% of the members may participate by an electronic means of
communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member’s electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend at least one meeting in person
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member’s absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   Meeting minutes. The minutes of a meeting at which any member
participates by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent.
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   Exceptions. No member of the County Council may participate by means
of electronic communication in a meeting at which the County Council may take
final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the County Board of Commissioners’ power of eminent
domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise, or renew a tax.
   (F)   Compliance. This section became effective from and after adoption by
the County Council and in compliance with I.C. 36-2-4-8.
(Res. 2021-32, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
31.09 shall result in a fine in the amount of $1,000.
(Ord. 2003-08, passed 4-1-2003)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Weed Control Board
   
32.02   Animal Control Advisory Board
   
32.03   Area Planning Department
   
32.04   Health Department
   
32.05   Redevelopment Authority
   
32.06   Data Processing Board
   
32.07   Department of Engineering
   
32.08   Economic Development Commission
   
32.09   Building Facilities Corporation
   
32.10   Tourism Commission
Parks and Recreation Board
   
32.25   Members
   
32.26   Terms
   
32.27   President, Vice President
   
32.28   Power
   
32.29   Annual budget
Water, Sewage, Waste Authorities
   
32.40   Stormwater Management Board
   
32.41   Drainage Board; members
   
32.42   Solid Waste Management District
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 WEED CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. The County Weed Control Board is hereby created, pursuant to
the authority set out in I.C. 15-16-7 in order to facilitate and aid the
individual Trustees of the various townships of the county in the eradication
of certain noxious weeds.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   Members of said County Weed Control Board, which will be appointed
by the Board of Commissioners, shall be as follows:
         (a)   One Township Trustee of the county;
         (b)   One Soil and Water Conservation District Supervisor;
         (c)   A representative from the agricultural community of the county;
         (d)   A representative from the County Highway Department, or such
other person as the Board of Commissioners might decide to appoint in place of
a representative from the County Highway Department; and
         (e)   A Co-Operative Extension Service Agent from the county who
serves in a non-voting advisory capacity.
      (2)   Each member of said County Weed Control Board shall be appointed
for a term of four years. All vacancies in the membership of the Weed Control
Board shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as initial
appointments. Once the Weed Control Board has been appointed and holds its
first meeting, it shall elect a Chairperson and a secretary, which officers
shall be elected annually thereafter at the first meeting of the Weed Control
Board of each calendar year. The members of said Weed Control Board shall not
be entitled to receive any compensation, but shall be entitled to such
traveling and other expenses as may be necessary in the discharge of their
duties. The Weed Control Board may, if it so desires, appoint an Executive
Director and employ all necessary technical, professional, and other
assistants, and said Weed Control Board shall fix the qualifications, duties,
and salaries of these employees subject to the permission of the County
Council. The County Highway Supervisor and the Soil and Water Conservation
District Supervisor, or his or her employee, serving the county shall serve as
inspectors for the Weed Control Board, and shall make periodic inspections and
report their findings to the Weed Control Board and the Executive Director of
the Weed Control Board, if any.
   (C)   Noxious weeds. The noxious weeds over which the County Weed Control
Board has jurisdiction are:
      (1)   Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense);
      (2)   Johnson grass and sorghum alum (sorghum halapense);
      (3)   Bur cucumber (sicyos angulatus); and
      (4)   Shattercane (sorghum biculor).
   (D)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the Weed Control Board
shall be those powers and duties as are set out in I.C. 15-16-7-7, and any
amendments thereto.
   (E)   Property.
      (1)   The County Weed Control Board, in conjunction with the individual
Township Trustees, may require persons owning real easements, rights-of-way, or
other similar interests in the real estate located in the county to control and
contain any noxious weeds growing on their said property.
      (2)   A five-day written notice to remove any noxious weeds shall be
issued by the Weed Control Board and Trustees, and served by certified or
registered mail addressed to the latest address of the person, or to his or her
relevant agent. In the alternative, notice may be served by the County Sheriff.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 1-4-2000)
§ 32.02 ANIMAL CONTROL ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. The mission of the County Animal Control Advisory Group is to
serve in an advisory capacity to the County Board of Commissioners for the
continuing improvements in animal control and the animal shelter by making
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners regarding facility needs,
equipment needs, operational/procedural issues, and policies of animal control
and animal shelter.
   (B)   Terms. The County Animal Control Advisory Group members shall serve
for one year and may be reappointed, and shall serve, at the will and pleasure
of the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Membership. The Advisory Group shall consist of, but not be limited
to:
      (1)   One County Board of Commissioner selected by the Board;
      (2)   One County Council member selected by the Council;
      (3)   One veterinarian appointed by the Board of Commissioners;
      (4)   One member who works with an animal rescue group and who is in good
standing with the Chief Animal Control Officer, and is appointed by the Board
of Commissioners;
      (5)   One member of the Friends of the Shelter to be recommended by the
Friends of the Shelter, and appointed by the Board of Commissioners;
      (6)   One representative from the County Sheriff’s Department to be
selected by the Sheriff;
      (7)   One citizen appointed by the County Board of Commissioners; and
      (8)   One Chief Animal Control Officer who shall serve as an ex-official
member with no voting authority.
   (D)   Representatives. Organizations asked to have a representative on this
Advisory Group must be a 501(C)(3) Organization as defined by the Internal
Revenue Service, and approved by the County Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Authority. The group is advisory only and does not have the authority
to implement any recommendation it develops.
   (F)   Board of Commissioners. The County Board of Commissioners will review
and approve any recommended policy changes by the Animal Control Advisory Group
prior to its implementation.
   (G)   Positions. The Animal Control Advisory Group will elect a Chairperson,
Vice Chairperson, and a secretary to conduct meetings and set up the agenda
with the assistance of the staff of the County Animal Control/Shelter
Department.
   (H)   Topics and minutes.
      (1)   Any Advisory Group member may introduce a topic for the agenda.
      (2)   Minutes of each meeting shall be kept.
   (I)   Organizations. Organizations asked to have a representative on the
Advisory Group may make a recommendation of such representative to the County
Board of Commissioners. The Board will either approve or deny the
recommendation.
   (J)   Meetings. The County Animal Control Advisory Group shall meet at least
bi-annually.
      (1)   Additional meetings may be called by the County Animal Control
Advisory Group as deemed necessary.
      (2)   The date, time, and location of the meetings are to be determined
by the County Animal Control Advisory Group.
   (K)   Open-Door Law. According to I.C. 5-14-1.5-2(a)(5), the County Animal
Control Advisory Group is subject to the Open-Door Law.
   (L)   Repeal. The County Board of Commissioners may repeal the establishment
of the Advisory Group at its discretion.
(Res. 14-33, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 32.03 AREA PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts the Area
Planning Law as set forth in I.C. 36-7-4.
   (B)   Organization. There shall be established a County Planning Department
consisting of the following:
      (1)   The County Area Plan Commission (the “Commission”);
      (2)   The County Area Board of Zoning Appeals, including such additional
divisions as may be established pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-901;
      (3)   An executive director; and
      (4)   Such staff as the Commission considers necessary.
   (C)   Membership.
      (1)   To provide equitable representation of municipal and rural
interests of the Commission, the representation of participating units shall be
as provided in the “200 SERIES - COMMISSION ESTABLISHMENT AND MEMBERSHIP” of
the area planning law, currently I.C. 36-7-4-200 through 36-7-4-223.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-207 and 36-7-4-208, if the total municipal
representation on the Commission is more than five, the county representatives
on the Commission shall be the following six individuals:
         (a)   One member appointed by the County Board of Commissioners from
its membership;
         (b)   One member appointed by the County Council from its membership;
         (c)   The County Superintendent of Schools, or if that office does not
exist, a representative appointed by the School Corporation Superintendents
within the jurisdiction of the Area Plan Commission;
         (d)   The County Agricultural Extension Educator; and
         (e)   One citizen member who is a resident of the unincorporated area
of the county, appointed by the County Council.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-207 and 36-7-4-208, if the total municipal
representation on the Commission is less than six, the county representatives
on the Commission shall be the following five individuals:
         (a)   The County Superintendent of Schools, or if that office does not
exist, a representative appointed by the School Corporation Superintendents
within the jurisdiction of the Area Plan Commission;
         (b)   The County Agricultural Extension Educator;
         (c)   One citizen member who is a resident of the unincorporated area
of the county, appointed by the County Board of Commissioners;
         (d)   One citizen member who is a resident of the unincorporated area
of the county, appointed by the County Council; and
         (e)   The County Surveyor.
(Ord. 1994-26, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.04 HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be established and maintained a local health department known as
the County Health Department, and said Department shall continue under the
auspices and authority of the local Board of Health heretofore appointed by the
County Board of Commissioners. The County Health Department shall have all the
powers and authorities granted by the state statute, and shall continue to
operate under the ordinances of the county regulating the health laws within
the county.
(Ord. 1992-13, passed 3-3-1992)
§ 32.05 REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Establishment. There is now hereby created a redevelopment authority
for the county which shall be designated as the County Redevelopment Authority.
   (B)   Purpose. The Authority is created and organized for the purposes set
out in I.C. 36-7-14.5-11, as it may be in effect from time to time.
   (C)   Membership. The initial Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the County
Redevelopment Authority shall consist of three individuals who are residents of
the county, and who shall serve for three years in accordance with I.C. 36-7-
14.5-8, as it may be in effect from time to time.
   (D)   Meetings. The Board shall conduct meetings and elect officers in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-14.5-9, as it may be in effect from time to time.
   (E)   Bylaws and rules. The Board may adopt such bylaws and rules as it
considers necessary for the proper conduct of its duties and safeguarding of
funds and property entrusted to its care.
   (F)   Powers and duties. The Authority shall have the powers and duties set
forth in I.C. 36-7-14.5, as it may be in effect from time to time.
(Ord. 96-30, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 32.06 DATA PROCESSING BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established in the county a Data
Processing Board. The members of the Data Processing Board shall be appointed
by the County Board of Commissioners for annual terms of one year.
   (B)   Membership. The Data Processing Board shall consist of six members as
follows:
      (1)   A representative of the County Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   A representative of the County Council;
      (3)   A representative of the County Circuit and Superior Courts;
      (4)   The County Auditor;
      (5)   The County Treasurer; and
      (6)   The County Assessor.
   (C)   President and Secretary.
      (1)   The representative of the Board of Commissioners shall serve as
President of the Data Processing Board.
      (2)   The County Auditor shall serve as the Secretary of the Data
Processing Board. The President of the Data Processing Board shall have
authority to break tie votes in any action taken by the Data Processing Board.
   (D)   Meetings, reporting. The Data Processing Board shall be required to
meet at least monthly, and such other times as necessary in order to coordinate
and fully utilize the data processing equipment in the county. The Data
Processing Board shall report, at least annually, to the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 1982-16, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 32.07 DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING.
   (A)   Purpose. There is hereby established a department of County
Engineering, and said Department shall be under the supervision of the County
Highway Engineer, and divisions of said department shall be as follows:
      (1)   A Division of Highways, Bridges, and Streets;
      (2)   A Division of Traffic Safety;
      (3)   A Division of Subdivision Developmental Control; and
      (4)   A Division of Ditches and Drains.
   (B)   Policies. The Department of County Engineering shall work under the
policies and directions established by the County Board of Commissioners, and
shall aid and assist the Board in formulating policies and plans for the
development of the divisions as established in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4)
above.
   (C)   Salaries, employment. The County Board of Commissioners shall employ
and fix the salaries of personnel for the staff of the Department, and the
divisions thereunder, in the manner prescribed by law for the appointment of
employment of other county officers and employees.
(Ord. 1, passed - -)
§ 32.08 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners has found that a need exists for the
financing of economic development and pollution control facilities in the
county which is not being met by any existing city or town development
commissions.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-4, that the County Economic Development
Commission be, and it hereby is, created and granted all powers and duties of
such Commission as set forth in said I.C. 36-7-12-4.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-15-1976)
§ 32.09 BUILDING FACILITIES CORPORATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The Building Facilities Corporation is organized solely for
the purpose of assisting the county with the financing of county facilities
through the acquisition, and owning in fee simple, of an existing county
building, or buildings, and the land upon which such is located, the
acquisition, and owning in fee simple, of a site, or sites, appropriate for a
new county building, or buildings, constructing and equipping a suitable county
building, or buildings, on such site, or sites, renovating or expanding an
existing county building, or buildings, and leasing the same to the county, or
its successor municipal corporation, collecting the rentals therefor and
applying the proceeds thereof in a manner consistent with I.C. 36-1-10, and
facilitating the financing of economic development projects and/or facilities
in the county in a manner consistent with I.C. 36-7-11.9 and 36-7-12, all
entirely without profit to the Corporation, its officers, directors, or
incorporators, other than the return of capital actually invested.
   (B)   Powers. In furtherance of the purposes set forth in division (A)
above, and subject to any limitation or restriction imposed by the Act (I.C.
23-7), I.C. 36-1-10, I.C. 36-7-11.9, I.C. 36-7-12, any other law, or the
Articles of Incorporation, the Corporation shall have all the general rights,
privileges, and powers granted to corporations by the Act.
(Res. 2016-29, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 32.10 TOURISM COMMISSION.
   The membership of the Tourism Commission is hereby established at seven
members. On or before January 1, 2021, the Tourism Commission’s membership
shall comply with I.C. 6-9-37-5, and the County Board of Commissioners made the
appointments for six members.
(Ord. 2020-49, passed 12-8-2020)
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 32.25 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The County Park and Recreation Board (the “Board”) shall be created
composed of the following members:
      (1)   Two members appointed by the Judge of the Circuit Court;
      (2)   One member appointed by the County Board of Commissioners;
      (3)   Two members appointed by the County Council;
      (4)   The County Extension Committee shall select one of the following
individuals to serve as an ex officio Parks and Recreation Board member: one of
its members, the County Extension Coordinator, or the County Extension Agent;
and
      (5)   The Board of Supervisors of the Soil and Water Conservation
District shall select an individual to serve as an ex officio Parks and
Recreation Board member.
   (B)   Parks and Recreation Board members appointed under divisions (A)(1),
(A)(2), and (A)(3) above shall be appointed on the basis of their interest in,
and knowledge of, parks and recreation, but no more than one of the two members
appointed under both divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above shall be affiliated with
the same political party.
   (C)   Ex officio Parks and Recreation Board members appointed under
divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) above shall have all the rights of regular Board
members appointed under divisions (A)(1), (A)(2), and (A)(3) above, including
the right to vote. A vacancy in an ex officio position shall be filled by the
appointing authority.
   (D)   No member of the County Council or County Board of Commissioners may
serve on the Parks and Recreation Board.
(Ord. 2000-007, passed 3-7-2000)
§ 32.26 TERMS.
   (A)   Upon the establishment of the Parks and Recreation Board, the terms of
its members shall be as follows:
      (1)   The appointments by the Circuit Court Judge shall be one- and
three-year terms, respectively;
      (2)   The appointment by the County Board of Commissioners shall be for a
two-year term; and
      (3)   The appointments by the County Council shall be for two- and four-
year terms, respectively.
   (B)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be for a four-year term.
All terms shall expire on the first Monday in January, but a member shall
continue in office until his or her successor is appointed. The appointing
authorities shall make initial appointments within 90 days after the creation
of the Parks and Recreation Board. If an appointment for any new term is not
made by the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a
vacancy on the Parks and Recreation Board occurs, the appointing authority
shall appoint a person to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 2000-007, passed 3-7-2000)
§ 32.27 PRESIDENT, VICE PRESIDENT.
   At its first regular meeting each year, the Parks and Recreation Board shall
elect a President and Vice President. The Vice President shall have the
authority to act as the President of the Parks and Recreation Board during the
absence, or disability, of the President. The Parks and Recreation Board shall
select a secretary from either within or without the membership of the Parks
and Recreation Board.
(Ord. 2000-007, passed 3-7-2000)
§ 32.28 POWER.
   The Parks and Recreation Board shall have the power to perform all acts
necessary to acquire and develop sites and facilities, and to conduct such
programs as are generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In
addition, the Parks and Recreation Board shall have all the powers and duties
listed in I.C. 36-10-3. Provided however, that the Parks and Recreation Board
shall not issue bonds without prior approval of two-thirds of the County
Council for each bond issued.
(Ord. 2000-007, passed 3-7-2000)
§ 32.29 ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The Parks and Recreation Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in
the same manner as other executive departments of county government, as
prescribed by the State Board of Accounts. The Parks and Recreation Board may
accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for park and recreation purposes.
(Ord. 2000-007, passed 3-7-2000)
WATER, SEWAGE, WASTE AUTHORITIES
§ 32.40 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Federal Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., requires
certain political entities to implement stormwater programs within prescribed
time frames, and the Environmental Protection Agency, pursuant to the Federal
Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and 327 I.A.C. 15-13 has published
rules for stormwater programs addressing stormwater quality.
      (2)   I.C. 8-1.5-5-1 et seq. provides that the purpose of the stormwater
management statute is to facilitate county compliance with the Water Quality
Act of 1977, and applicable EPA regulations, particularly those arising from §
405 of the Water Quality Act of 1987, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345, and § 402(p) of
the Clean Water Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342(p), as well as 327 I.A.C.
15-13, and to enable counties to regulate stormwater quality.
      (3)   The Stormwater Management Board shall be established pursuant to
I.C. 8-1.5-5-4.5.
   (B)   Appointment, powers.
      (1)   The Stormwater Management Board, established pursuant to the terms
of this section, shall have those powers provided for under I.C. 8-1.5-5.
      (2)   I.C. 8-1.5-5-1 et seq. provides that, among other powers counties
have with respect to stormwater quality, is the power by ordinance to:
         (a)   Establish a Board of Directors; and
         (b)   Appoint members to such board.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 32.41 DRAINAGE BOARD; MEMBERS.
   (A)   The County Drainage Board shall consist of five members.
   (B)   At least one of the members must be a member of the County Board of
Commissioners, appointed by the Executives.
   (C)   The remaining members shall be resident freeholders of the county,
knowledgeable in drainage matters.
   (D)   Freeholders shall serve terms of three years, staggered on an annual
basis.
   (E)   The County Surveyor shall serve on the Drainage Board as an ex offico,
non-voting member.
(Ord. 2006-05, passed - -)
§ 32.42 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Board of Directors. The County Solid Waste Management District will be
governed by a board of nine Directors consisting of:
      (1)   Three members of the County Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   Two members of the County Council, chosen by the County Council;
and
      (3)   Four members, of which one member of the town legislative bodies of
Avon, Brownsburg, Danville, and Plainfield shall serve, chosen by each of the
towns’ legislative bodies.
   (B)   Citizens advisory committee. The County Solid Waste Management
District will appoint, and convene, a Solid Waste Management Advisory Committee
of citizens pursuant to I.C. 13-21-3-11.
   (C)   Territory. All of the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the
county shall be included in the District pursuant to I.C. 13-21-3-2.
   (D)   Financial management. The District will impose fees on the final
disposal of solid waste within the district under I.C. 13-21-13, as well as
cost sharing fees for various recycling programs. All funds will be managed to
the State Board of Accounts guidelines, and will be reported annually pursuant
to I.C. 13-21-3-13.5.
(Ord. 2004-39, passed 12-14-2004; Ord. 2006-20, passed 9-26-2006)
CHAPTER 33: ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU
Section
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Payment of fines, penalties
   
33.03   Compromise of claims for fines, penalties
   
33.04   County Attorney; authority
   
33.05   Enforcement
   
33.06   Violations
   
33.07   Appearance; denial of admission
   
33.08   Late charges
   
33.09   Other legal action
   
33.10   Civil penalties
   
33.11   Right to trial
   
33.12   Fines collected
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   There is hereby established an Ordinance Violations Bureau, and the County
Clerk, by virtue of office, is hereby appointed the Violations Clerk to be the
administrator of the Bureau. The Violations Clerk shall serve without any
additional salary.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 33.02 PAYMENT OF FINES, PENALTIES.
   The Office of the County Clerk, the Violation Clerk, is hereby authorized to
accept the payment of a fine, or penalty, of not more than $250 prescribed by
this chapter, or fines prescribed by other ordinances, unless an action has
been filed in a court of law for enforcement. If an action to enforce an
ordinance has been adjudicated in court, the County Clerk’s Office may accept
the payment of any judgment and costs ordered by the court having jurisdiction
of the action.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 33.03 COMPROMISE OF CLAIMS FOR FINES, PENALTIES.
   The County Attorney, after consultation with the officer issuing the
citation, may compromise and settle any citation for violation of a county
ordinance if the amount of the fine, or penalty, is not specified by ordinance.
If a fine, or penalty, is specified by ordinance, then the amount specified in
the ordinance, unless justice, will not be served.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 33.04 COUNTY ATTORNEY; AUTHORITY.
   The County Attorney, or his or her designee, shall have the authority to
bring an action in the name of the county to enforce any ordinances of the
county. The County Attorney shall have the authority and discretion not to
bring an action to enforce an ordinance violation if, in his or her
professional opinion, there is not sufficient evidence or legal basis to
prevail in court. An ordinance citation issued by an enforcement officer may be
voided by the County Attorney if the County Attorney has reason to believe that
there is not sufficient evidence or legal basis to enforce the citation.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 33.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The following persons are authorized to issue citations enforcing
county ordinances:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers of the County Sheriff’s Office;
      (2)   Any member of the County Board of Commissioners;
      (3)   Any person designated by the County Health Department to enforce
ordinances under that Department’s jurisdiction;
      (4)   Any person designated by the Executive Director of the Plan
Commission to enforce ordinances under the zoning or planning law;
      (5)   The County Surveyor, or his or her designee, when enforcing
drainage or other ordinances under his or her jurisdiction;
      (6)   The County Inspector and the Deputy Inspectors of the Department of
Weights and Measures to enforce ordinances under that Department’s
jurisdiction;
      (7)   The County Parks Manager, or his or her designee, to enforce
ordinances under the jurisdiction of the county parks and parks facilities;
      (8)   The Building Commissioner, or his or her designee, to enforce
building codes or other ordinances under the jurisdiction of the County
Building Commission;
      (9)   Any person designated by the County Board of Commissioners; or
      (10)   Any officer, or other county official or employee, authorized by
an ordinance of the county or state law to issue complaints for violations of
ordinances may issue complaints for the violation of Bureau ordinances.
   (B)   It shall not be necessary for a citation to be issued before the
county brings an action to enforce an ordinance.
   (C)   In bringing an action to enforce an ordinance, the county may utilize
any remedy or remedies allowed by the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 33.06 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates a provision of state statute, administrative code,
or regulation and/or county ordinance, shall be subject to penalties (or fines)
as established by the violated code, statute, or ordinance. A court of law may
assess additional civil penalties for non-compliance. The civil penalties shall
be paid to the County Clerk, as the Violation Clerk, within 30 days of the date
the citation is issued, and corrective action(s) shall be taken as soon as
possible to immediately bring the property into compliance with this chapter as
required by ordinance. Violations of a continuing nature shall each be
considered a separate offense for each day the property is not in compliance
with any provision in this chapter. Failure to pay the penalty and take the
necessary corrective action in a timely manner could result in the county
filing suit in the County Circuit or Superior Courts for payment of the civil
penalty and all related court costs, and to bring about compliance of such
property.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 33.07 APPEARANCE; DENIAL OF ADMISSION.
   Any person upon whom a citation is issued pursuant to this chapter shall
appear at the County Clerk’s Office to admit, or deny, the violation within
seven days of the issuance of the citation, or shall have delivered to his or
her admission an entire penalty payment, or written denial, to the County
Clerk’s Office within seven days of the issuance of the citation.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 33.08 LATE CHARGES.
   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance brought pursuant to this
chapter does not bring an admission of violation and payment of the civil
penalty, or is not properly responded to in writing within seven days of the
issuance of the citation, the Bureau shall add a late charge of $5 per
violation to the amount otherwise payable. After 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, the Bureau shall not accept admission of a violation or payment of
the civil penalty without the consent of the County Attorney, who may withhold
that consent if the violation has been referred to the County Attorney for
legal proceedings.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 33.09 OTHER LEGAL ACTION.
   The identification of an ordinance or code provision as a Bureau ordinance
does not preclude the county from taking other legal action to enforce the
ordinance or code provision, in lieu of issuing a complaint under the authority
of this chapter seeking the civil penalty, if the ordinance or code provision
provides for other enforcement options, including, but not limited to,
injunctive relief and recovery of abatement costs, or of damages.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 33.10 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   The county ordinances and code provisions, identified above as Bureau
ordinances, are hereby amended to provide and declare the civil penalty
scheduled with the ordinance or code provision to be the specific monetary
penalty for the violation of that ordinance.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 33.11 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the rights of trial to a
person charged with an ordinance violation. If a person charged with an
ordinance violation wants to exercise the right to trial, the person shall
appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation, or enter a written
denial with the Violations Clerk.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 33.12 FINES COLLECTED.
   All sums collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance
violations shall be accounted for, and paid to, the County Clerk for deposit
into the County General Fund.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 2-24-2015)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Public Defender Board
   
34.01   Purpose
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Membership appointment
   
34.04   Powers, duties
   
34.05   Authority of judges
Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team
   
34.20   Purpose; establishment
   
34.21   Scope
   
34.22   Chairperson
   
34.23   Membership
   
34.24   Duties
PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD
§ 34.01 PURPOSE.
   The County Public Defender Board is hereby established for the purpose of
providing legal representation to indigent defendants/respondents in criminal,
juvenile, probation violation, extradition, child support, civil commitments,
and other proceedings where the right to counsel has been establish by law.
(Ord. 2016-30, passed - -)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The County Public Defender Board.
   INDIGENT DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT. A person who requests legal representation,
and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal representation at public
expense.
   LEGAL REPRESENTATION.
      (1)   The services of an attorney provided to a defendant/respondent in a
matter originating in a state court in the county involving:
         (a)   A person charged with a crime as defined in I.C. 35-31.5-2-75;
         (b)   An act of delinquency as defined in I.C. 31-37-1-2;
         (c)   A violation of a condition of probation established as part of a
sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
         (d)   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
         (e)   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C. 31-
16;
         (f)   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
         (g)   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
      (2)   The term LEGAL REPRESENTATION includes services in connection with
all pre-trial, trial, and appellate proceedings in which an indigent defendant/
respondent has a right to counsel.
(Ord. 2016-30, passed - -)
§ 34.03 MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Public Defender Board shall consist of three members:
      (1)   One member appointed by the County Commissioners; and
      (2)   Two members from different political parties appointed by majority
vote of the Judges who exercise felony or juvenile jurisdiction.
   (B)   The initial term of the member appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners shall expire on January 1, 2018. The initial term of the one
member appointed by the judges shall expire on January 1, 2019, and the initial
other member appointed by the judges shall expired on January 1, 2020.
   (C)   After the initial term of each member, appointment shall be for three-
year terms. Members of the Public Defender Board shall serve until their
successor is appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the
authority appointing the member vacating the position, and shall be for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (D)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of the
Public Defender Board: a city, town, or county attorney, a law enforcement
officer, a judge, or a court employee.
   (E)   The Public Defender Board members shall serve without pay, but may
receive reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the member’s
duties if approved by the Public Defender Board.
   (F)   Two members of the Public Defender Board shall constitute a quorum for
the purpose of conducting the business of the Public Defender Board. Decisions
of the Public Defender Board shall be approved by a majority of the members
present.
   (G)   The Public Defender Board shall meet at least quarterly, or upon call
of its Chairperson or any two members of the Public Defender Board.
   (H)   The Public Defender Board shall elect its Chairperson by a majority
vote of the Board.
(Ord. 2016-30, passed - -)
§ 34.04 POWERS, DUTIES.
   The Public Defender Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal representation to
indigent defendants/respondents in the county in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7-
5. The comprehensive plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
      (1)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at the
earliest possible point in time;
      (2)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by the
same attorney, or attorneys, through the pendency of the matter to the greatest
extent possible; and
      (3)   Professional development, continuing legal education, and
malpractice coverage for public defenders.
   (B)   Establish policies and procedures for the provision of competent legal
representation for indigent defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extraditions, child support, criminal contempt, and other
matters pursuant to the comprehensive plan;
   (C)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of
indigence, and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation
provided at public expense, in accordance with I.C. 33-40-3;
   (D)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the Public Defender Board and
monitor the expenditures of the funds; and
   (E)   Prepare and submit to the County Council and the general public an
annual report on the operation of the Public Defender Board.
(Ord. 2016-30, passed - -)
§ 34.05 AUTHORITY OF JUDGES.
   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to abridge the authority of any
judge of a state court of the county from appointing counsel for any person
entitled thereto under the Constitution of the United States, or the
Constitution of the state.
(Ord. 2016-30, passed - -)
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE FATALITY REVIEW TEAM
§ 34.20 PURPOSE; ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. To create a Domestic Violence Review Team (DVFRT) for the
purpose of reviewing deaths resulting from domestic violence in the county as
authorized by I.C. 12-18-8-1 et seq., and to appoint, and reappoint, members of
the local Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team. Members of the Domestic
Violence Fatality Review Team (DVFRT) shall be appointed, or reappointed, for
two-year terms.
   (B)   Establishment. There is hereby created a Domestic Violence Fatality
Review Team (DVFRT) in the county.
(Ord. 2009-25, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 34.21 SCOPE.
   The Team shall review only those deaths in which the person who commits the
act of domestic violence resulting in death:
   (A)   Is charged with a criminal offense that results in final judgment; or
   (B)   Is deceased.
(Ord. 2009-25, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 34.22 CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   Any member of a local domestic violence fatality review team may serve
as the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be elected annually by members of the
local Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team (DVFRT) at the first meeting of
the Team.
   (B)   The local Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team (DVFRT) shall meet at
the call of the Chairperson.
   (C)   The local Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team (DVFRT) Chairperson
shall determine the agenda for each meeting.
(Ord. 2009-25, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 34.23 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners shall appoint the initial 15 members
to the Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team (DVFRT), as described under I.C.
12-18-8-10 and I.C. 12-18-8-11. The initial members shall serve effective
October 1, 2009. Vacancies on the DVFRT shall thereafter be filled by vote of
the current members.
   (B)   The local Domestic Violence Review Team (DVFRT) for the county
consists of the following members:
      (1)   A survivor of domestic violence;
      (2)   A domestic violence direct service provider agency;
      (3)   A representative of law enforcement from the area served by the
local Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team (DVFRT);
      (4)   A prosecuting attorney, or the prosecuting attorney’s designee,
from the area served by the local Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team
(DVFRT);
      (5)   An expert in the field of forensic pathology, or a coroner, or a
deputy coroner;
      (6)   A medical practitioner with expertise in domestic violence;
      (7)   A judge who hears civil or criminal cases; and
      (8)   An employee of a child protective services agency.
   (C)   In accordance with the ordinance adopted under I.C. 12-18-8-10, the
County Domestic Violence Fatality Team (DVFRT) shall have the following
additional categories of members, not to exceed seven:
      (1)   A clergy member;
      (2)   A representative of the county government agency;
      (3)   A representative from the County Health Department;
      (4)   A representative from a local bar association;
      (5)   A defense attorney;
      (6)   An educator;
      (7)   A probation officer;
      (8)   A representative from the business community;
      (9)   An animal control officer;
      (10)   An attorney; and
      (11)   A provider of a batterers intervention program.
   (D)   (1)   Members of the Team for subsequent terms shall be chosen by
current Team Members.
      (2)   If an opening occurs before the end of a term, the current Team
Members shall choose a person to complete the term.
(Ord. 2009-25, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 34.24 DUTIES.
   (A)   The local Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team shall do the
following:
      (1)   Assist a local agency in identifying and reviewing a homicide or
suicide that results from domestic violence;
      (2)   Develop recommendations for coordinated community prevention and
intervention strategies to prevent future homicides or suicides resulting from
domestic violence; and
      (3)   Collect data described in I.C. 12-18-8-14 related to a death
resulting from domestic violence.
   (B)   The local Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team may develop a
protocol to assist a person who performs an autopsy in:
      (1)   Identifying a victim of domestic violence; and
      (2)   Preparing a written report identifying a person as the victim of
domestic violence and describing the cause of death.
   (C)   The local Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team shall be operated in
conjunction with a:
      (1)   Local domestic violence shelter;
      (2)   Domestic violence program; or
      (3)   Domestic violence coordinated community response team.
   (D)   The Team will perform its duties in accordance with I.C. 12-18-8-1 et
seq., and/or any amendments or replacement for I.C. 12-18-8-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2009-25, passed 9-15-2009)
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Scope
   
35.04   Limitations
   
35.05   Advisory Council, powers and duties
   
35.06   Director, powers and duties
   
35.07   Staffing, oath, prohibition of political activity
   
35.08   Duties of Department
   
35.09   Budget, finance
   
35.10   Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
   
35.11   Jurisdiction
   
35.12   Tests; Emergency Management Plan, others
   
35.13   Board of Commissioners; powers and duties
   
35.14   Applicability of powers
   
35.15   Principle executive officer; special emergency powers and duties
   
35.16   County officers, employees; general duties
   
35.17   Non-compliance
   
35.18   Compensation; property commandeered
   
35.19   Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   To establish in the county a Department of Emergency Management, and to
provide for the exercise of necessary powers during disaster emergencies.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL. The County Emergency Management Advisory Council, as
established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners, as elected pursuant to I.C. 36-2-
2.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the County Emergency Management Advisory
Council, as established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   COUNTY. The County of Hendricks, Indiana.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Department of Emergency Management, as established
under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DIRECTOR. The County Emergency Management Director, as established and
appointed pursuant to this chapter, in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DISASTER. The meaning established in I.C. 10-14-3-1; which, at the time this
chapter is adopted, means:
      (1)   An occurrence, or imminent threat, of widespread, or severe,
damage, injury, or loss of life or property, resulting from any natural or
human-made cause; and
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Fire;
         (b)   Flood;
         (c)   Earthquake;
         (d)   Wind;
         (e)   Storm;
         (f)   Wave action;
         (g)   Oil spill;
         (h)   Other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert
danger or damage;
         (i)   Air contamination;
         (j)   Drought;
         (k)   Explosion;
         (l)   Riot; and/or
         (m)   Hostile military, or paramilitary, action.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The meaning established in I.C. 10-14-3-2 which, at
the time this chapter is adopted, means the preparation for, and the
coordination of, all emergency functions, other than functions for which
military forces, or other federal agencies, are primarily responsible, to
prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from disasters. The
functions include the following:
      (1)   Firefighting services;
      (2)   Police services;
      (3)   Medical and health services;
      (4)   Rescue;
      (5)   Engineering;
      (6)   Warning services;
      (7)   Communications;
      (8)   Radiological, chemical, and other special weapons defense;
      (9)   Evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
      (10)   Emergency welfare services;
      (11)   Emergency transportation;
      (12)   Plant protection;
      (13)   Temporary restoration of public utility services;
      (14)   Other functions related to civilian protection; and
      (15)   All other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation
for, and coordination of, the functions described in divisions (1) through (14)
above.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management, being first duly given the loyalty
oath, mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-27, and rostered and appointed by the Director,
including persons and private agencies, or governmental units, offering
services to the county during emergency situations, or mutual aid to other
emergency services who request assistance.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated in the emergency
operations plan to participate in emergency management activities.
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a municipal
corporation, or a volunteer organization designated to participate in the
county’s emergency management programs and activities pursuant to a
cooperative, or mutual aid, agreement entered into pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees, and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PLAN or EMERGENCY PLAN. The current local COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
PLAN, whose preparation and updating are mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h).
   PRINCIPLE EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY. As referred to in I.C. 10-14-3-29
(a) for purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, and as referred to
hereinafter, means the County Board of Commissioners, established under I.C.
36-2-2. If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners (two of the three
Board members) is unavailable or is incapacitated, then the following
establishes the line of succession for the PRINCIPLE EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
      (1)   If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners (two of the three
Board members, as established under I.C. 36-2-4-3) is unavailable or is
incapacitated, then the regularly-designated President of the County Board of
Commissioners shall serve as the PRINCIPLE EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes
of this chapter until such time that a quorum of the County Board of
Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated;
      (2)   If both a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners and the
regularly-designated President of the County Board of Commissioners are
unavailable, or are incapacitated, then the President Pro-Tem of the Board of
Commissioners shall serve as the PRINCIPLE EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes
of this chapter until such time that either the regularly-designated President,
or a quorum of the Board of Commissioners, is no longer unavailable or
incapacitated;
      (3)   If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners, the regularly-
designated President of the Board of Commissioners, and the President Pro-Tem
of the County Board of Commissioners are all unavailable, or are incapacitated,
then the remaining Board members of the County Board of Commissioners shall
serve as the PRINCIPLE EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter until
such time that the President Pro-Tem, the regularly-designated President, or a
quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable, or
incapacitated;
      (4)   If all of the Commissioners are unavailable, or incapacitated, then
the County Auditor shall serve as the PRINCIPLE EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the
purposes of this chapter until such time that a Commissioner is no longer
unavailable or incapacitated;
      (5)   If all of the County Board of Commissioners and the County Auditor
are unavailable, or incapacitated, then the County Clerk shall serve as the
PRINCIPLE EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter until such time
that the County Auditor or a Board member is no longer unavailable, or
incapacitated;
      (6)   If all of the County Board of Commissioners, the County Auditor,
and the County Clerk are unavailable or incapacitated, then the County Recorder
shall serve as the PRINCIPLE EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter
until such time that the County Auditor, the County Clerk, or a Board member is
no longer unavailable, or incapacitated; or
      (7)   If all of the County Board of Commissioners, the County Auditor,
the County Clerk, and the County Recorder are unavailable, or incapacitated,
then the Director of Emergency Management shall serve as the PRINCIPLE
EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter until such time that the
Counter Recorder, the County Auditor, the County Clerk, or a Board member is no
longer unavailable, or incapacitated.
   STATE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY. The Department of Homeland Security
for Indiana, established under I.C. 10-19-2-1.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.03 SCOPE.
   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary, and
indispensable, powers and procedures reasonably needed to mitigate, prepare
for, respond to, and recover from emergency conditions. To this end, all
powers, both ministerial and discretionary, as conferred herein, shall be
liberally construed to supplement and augment, not to limit, any other powers,
or reasonable exercise of discretion, which may ordinarily pertain to county
officers, employees, departments, and agencies.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.04 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede, or delimit, any
statutory powers of the County Sheriff.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede, or delimit, the
powers granted under I.C. 10-14-3-17 to any political subdivision to adopt, and
implement, emergency plans, and promulgate and enforce emergency management
rules and regulations in the advent of an actual emergency affecting such
political subdivision. However, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22, such regulations
and procedures, as promulgated by the political subdivision, may not be
inconsistent with the county emergency management program and emergency plan
established in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.05 ADVISORY COUNCIL, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The County Emergency Management Advisory Council is established by
I.C. 10-14-3-17(c), and under this statute consists of the following
individuals, or their designees:
      (1)   The President of the County Board of Commissioners or, if the Board
of Commissioners does not have a President, a member of the Board of
Commissioners appointed from the membership of the Board;
      (2)   The President of the County Council;
      (3)   The Mayor of each city located in the county;
      (4)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns
located within the county;
      (5)   One Commander of a local civil air patrol unit in the county, or
the Commander’s designee; and
      (6)   Representatives of such private and public agencies, or
organizations, which can be of assistance to emergency management as the
organizing group considers appropriate, or as may be added later by the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the County Emergency Management Advisory
Council are established by I.C. 10-14-3-17(d), and under this statute consist
of the following:
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control
over the emergency management and disaster program of the county;
      (2)   The Advisory Council shall select, or cause to be selected, with
the approval of the County Board of Commissioners, the County Emergency
Management Director; and
      (3)   The statute establishing the powers and duties of the Advisory
Council does not describe the procedure to be used to terminate the County
Emergency Management Director.
         (a)   The statute does require the Advisory Council to select the
Director, and obtain approval from the Board for this selection before the
Director can be appointed.
         (b)   An Advisory Council may make a determination to terminate the
Director, but this determination is subject to the approval of the Board before
the termination is final.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.06 DIRECTOR, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory
Council, shall be the executive head of the Department.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17(d)(2)(A), has direct responsibility for
the organization, administration, and operation of the Department, including
the following specific powers and duties:
      (1)   The Director, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17(d)(2)(B),is responsible
to the Chairperson of the Advisory Council, and as such shall keep the
Chairperson fully informed on emergency management activities, and shall
provide such reports to the Advisory Council if so directed by the Chairperson
of the Advisory Council;
      (2)   Keep the Board of Commissioners fully informed on emergency
management activities;
      (3)   Submit to the Advisory Council and the County Board of
Commissioners a yearly report on the county’s Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan, including mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery
taken in the previous year, and planned and recommended for the year to come;
      (4)   Assure that all of the duties and responsibilities of the State
Department of Emergency Management Agency are completed;
      (5)   Assure that all county employees and rostered volunteers with
responsibilities as part of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan receive
training in the functions that they are to perform under the Plan;
      (6)   Design and conduct exercises of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan, as required by the State Department of Emergency Management
Agency;
      (7)   Assure that the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan addresses
all hazards and includes all cities, towns, and other population centers within
the county;
      (8)   Submit to State Department of Emergency Management Agency the
assessment specified in SEMA’s required format, and within SEMA’s required time
frame for submission;
      (9)   Provide to the State Department of Emergency Management Agency
Director annual reports and documentation as mandated;
      (10)   Competently manage the Department’s various functions, including,
among others, financial, personnel, and logistic;
      (11)   Timely obey the directives of superior state authorities;
      (12)   Assure that the activities of the Department, at all times,
comport with I.C. 10-14-3 and other applicable statutes, rules, and county
ordinances;
      (13)   Develop an emergency operating center (“EOC”) as a site from which
key officials can direct and control operations during a disaster or emergency;
      (14)   Attend, and attain passing grades in, the Emergency Management
Professional Development Series for emergency management presented by the State
Department of Emergency Management Agency and Public Safety Training Institute
within four years of first assuming the position of Director;
      (15)   Attend, and attain passing grades in, such emergency management
training required by SEMA in subsequent years;
      (16)   Assure the Deputy Director’s attendance at, and passing grades in,
the Emergency Management Professional Development Series for emergency
management presented by the Public Safety Training Institute within four years
of first assuming the position of Deputy Director;
      (17)   Assure the Deputy Director’s, and all paid emergency management
staff’s, attendance at, and passing grades in, such emergency management
training as may be required by SEMA in subsequent years;
      (18)   Assure ongoing attendance by the Director, the Deputy Director,
and all paid emergency management staff at further emergency management courses
presented by the Public Safety Training Institute to assure continued knowledge
of the latest information on emergency management;
      (19)   Assume responsibility for public relations, information, and
education regarding all phases of emergency management;
      (20)   Assure coordination within the county of all activities for
emergency management;
      (21)   Maintain liaison, and coordinate with, all other affected agencies
public and private;
      (22)   Coordinate the recruitment and training for volunteer personnel
and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the county for
emergency management purposes;
      (23)   Seek, negotiate, and enter into (with the approval or ratification
of the County Board of Commissioners, and consistent with the State Emergency
Operations Plan and program) mutual aid arrangements with other public and
private agencies for emergency management purposes, and taking all steps in
accordance with such arrangements to comply with, or take advantage thereof, in
the event of an actual emergency affecting the parties;
      (24)   Accept any offer of the Federal Government to provide for the use
of the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds for
emergency management purposes by way of gift, grant, or loan, when the Governor
has approved such offer;
      (25)   Seek and accept from any person, firm, or corporation, any
gratuitous offers to provide services, equipment, supplies, materials, funds,
or licenses, or privileges to use real estate or other premises, to the county
for emergency management purposes;
      (26)   Issue proper insignia and papers to emergency management workers,
and other people directly concerned with emergency management;
      (27)   Assure that all volunteers meet the criteria set forth in this
chapter prior to accepting them as members of the Department;
      (28)   Make rapid and accurate assessment of (as soon as an emergency or
disaster declaration has been made):
         (a)   Property damage;
         (b)   Personal injuries;
         (c)   Fatalities;
         (d)   Basic needs; and
         (e)   Special needs.
      (29)   In addition to the powers and duties expressly provided in
divisions (B)(1) through (B)(28) above, the Director shall be construed to have
all powers and duties of a local Emergency Management Director, as provided
under I.C. 10-14-3. In particular, but not by limitation, the Director, through
the Department, may perform, or cause to be performed, with respect to the
county, any function parallel, or analogous, to those performed on a statewide
basis by SEMA under I.C. 10-14-3.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.07 STAFFING, OATH, PROHIBITION OF POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management
within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose of
utilizing, to the fullest extent possible, the personnel and facilities of
existing county departments and agencies to prepare for, and meet, any disaster
as defined in this chapter. The Director of Emergency Management shall be
responsible for its organization, administration, and operation.
   (B)   The Department shall consist of the following:
      (1)   The Director of Emergency Management;
      (2)   A Deputy Director appointed by the Director, with the approval of
the Advisory Council. The Deputy Director shall fulfill the duties of the
Director in the absence, or incapacity, of the Director to serve, and assist,
the Director in the performance of the Director’s duties;
      (3)   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and appointed
by the Director. In addition to the other requirements in this section, the
Director shall ensure that all volunteer personnel meet the following
qualifications before being placed on the roster as a member of the Department:
         (a)   Be at least 18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Not be convicted of a felony; and
         (c)   Have completed, and have on file with the Department, an
application form.
      (4)   The employees, equipment, and facilities of all county departments
and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency management, and
designated by the Emergency Plan to participate in emergency management
activity;
      (5)   Staff officers with responsibility for communications and warning,
radiological, health and medical care, law enforcement, fire and search and
rescue, public works, and public information in accordance with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (6)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees, as deemed
necessary, and appointed by the Director in accordance with the Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27(a), no person shall be employed, or
associated in any capacity, in any emergency management organization
established under this chapter who:
      (1)   Advocates a change by force or violence in the constitutional form
of the government of the United States, or the overthrow of any government in
the United States by force or violence; or
      (2)   Has been convicted of, or is under indictment or information
charging, any subversive act against the United States.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27(b), each individual who is appointed to
serve in an organization for emergency management shall, before entering upon
the individual’s duties, take a loyalty oath, in writing, before a person
authorized to administer oaths in the state.
      (1)   The loyalty oath shall be substantially as follows:
         “I,____, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Indiana against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of any political party or
organization that advocates, the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this state by force or violence; and that during such time as I am
a member of the County Department of Emergency Management I will not advocate
nor become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state by force or
violence.”   
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-27(c), the Director of the State
Department of Emergency Management Agency, and the County Emergency Management
Director, may administer this loyalty oath in division (D)(1) above, and may
delegate the authority to administer the loyalty oath to designated deputies
and assistants approved by the Director of the State Department of Emergency
Management Agency.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-26, the Department shall not:
      (1)   Participate in any form of political activity; or
      (2)   Be employed directly, or indirectly, for political purposes.
   (F)   The County Council shall not have any power of approval over
particular candidates for any position, but the County Council shall have
general statutory powers to determine the numbers of officers, deputies, and
employees of county departments, classify positions, and adopt schedules of
compensation pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3(a). Notwithstanding any other provision
of this chapter, with the exception of the Director, a compensated position may
not be established within the Department of Emergency Management, nor shall any
person be appointed to such position without authorization, and sufficient
funding, from the County Council.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.08 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Department, subject to the direction and control of the Director, shall
prepare, and implement, the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, including
the following specific duties:
   (A)   Prepare, and distribute, to all appropriate officials a clear and
complete written statement of the emergency responsibilities of all local
agencies and officials, and the disaster chain of command in accordance with
I.C. 10-14-3-17(i);
   (B)   Work closely with officers and employees of incorporated, and
unincorporated, areas of the county to develop a hazard mitigation program to
eliminate, or reduce, potential hazards;
   (C)   Write, and implement, the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan,
which shall conform to the guidelines contained in the most current state and
federal guidance documents (the county cannot receive state and/or federal
matching funds unless this is done), and the requirements established in this
chapter. As part of the preparation of this Plan, the Department shall:
      (1)   Identify and analyze the effects of hazards that threaten the
county;
      (2)   Inventory manpower and material resources from governmental, and
private sector, sources that would be available in a disaster or emergency;
      (3)   Establish a system to alert key officials in the event of a
disaster or emergency;
      (4)   Identify resource deficiencies, and work with appropriate officials
on measures to correct them;
      (5)   Develop and maintain an emergency communications system, thus
assuring proper functioning of emergency communications throughout the county,
including all cities and towns;
      (6)   Take all actions necessary to ensure the continuity of government
procedures and systems in the event of a disaster;
      (7)   Establish and maintain a shelter and reception, and care system,
for both people and animals;
      (8)   Develop a training program for emergency response personnel,
ensuring that mitigation, training, and exercising have been performed for all
such personnel; and
      (9)   Coordinate with industry to develop and maintain industrial
emergency plans and capabilities in support of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan.
   (D)   Update the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, as needed, to keep
it current, as required by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h); and
   (E)   Develop a program to test and exercise the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.09 BUDGET, FINANCE.
   (A)   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation of
the budget.
   (B)   The County Council shall appropriate such funds as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of emergency management.
   (C)   All funds appropriated, or otherwise available, to the Department of
Emergency Management shall be administered by the Director.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.10 COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   A County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, referred to as the
Interjurisdictional Disaster Emergency Plan by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h), shall be
adopted by resolution of the County Board of Commissioners. In the preparation
of this Plan, as it pertains to county organization, it is the intent that the
services, equipment, facilities, and personnel of all existing departments and
agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent possible.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall include, at minimum,
the following:
      (1)   An administrative section, which includes:
         (a)   Authorities and directives;
         (b)   Terms and definitions;
         (c)    Acronyms/abbreviations; and
         (d)   Financial management.
      (2)   A hazards specific section, which includes:
         (a)   Unique hazards; and
         (b)   Special events.
      (3)   An operations section, which includes:
         (a)   Coordination and control emergency support function;
         (b)   Communications and warning emergency support function;
         (c)   Public information emergency support function;
         (d)   Resource management emergency support function; and
         (e)   Information and planning emergency support function.
      (4)   An emergency services section, which includes:
         (a)   Military emergency support function;
         (b)   Law enforcement emergency support function;
         (c)   Firefighting emergency support function;
         (d)   Transportation emergency support function;
         (e)   Health and medical emergency support function;
         (f)   Search and rescue emergency support function; and
         (g)   Public works/engineering emergency support function.
      (5)   A consequent effects section, which includes:
         (a)   Evacuation emergency support function;
         (b)   Shelter/mass care emergency support function;
         (c)   Damage assessment emergency support function;
         (d)   Hazardous materials emergency support function;
         (f)   Radiological protection emergency support function; and
         (g)   Energy emergency support function.
   (C)   In addition, all emergency services within the county shall:
      (1)   Develop standard operating procedures, standard operating guides,
and checklists that are drafted subject to the requirements of the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (2)   Coordinate standard operating procedures, standard operating
guides, and checklists with the Department of Emergency Management;
      (3)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (4)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
   (D)   During an emergency management test or declared disaster emergency,
the county, the county’s assigned personnel, participating emergency services,
and rostered emergency management volunteers shall be immune from liability to
the full extent provided by I.C. 10-14-3, and any other applicable law.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.11 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Except as provided by §
35.04, the jurisdiction of the County Department of Emergency Management shall
be comprehensive and inclusive countywide, and effective in both the
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   The jurisdiction and applicability of the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan, as adopted pursuant to this section, and the
exercise of any powers of the principle executive officer of the county and of
the County Board of Commissioners under §
35.15, shall be comprehensive and inclusive countywide, and effective in both
the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (C)   All political subdivisions in the county:
      (1)   If they develop a plan for their political subdivision shall:
         (a)   Ensure that the plan is consistent with the requirements of the
County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
         (b)   Coordinate the development of the plan with the Department of
Emergency Management; and
         (c)   Ensure inclusion of the plan within the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan.
      (2)   Shall perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (3)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.12 TESTS; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN, OTHERS.
   (A)   Tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan may be conducted
at any time, with or without prior notification to persons other than the
Director.
   (B)   All emergency tests conducted within the boundaries of the county
shall be coordinated with the Department.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.13 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   In time of normal county operations, the powers and duties of the
County Board of Commissioners, pertaining to emergency management, shall be:
      (1)   Maintaining general supervision over the planning and
administration for the Department;
      (2)   Adopting the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (3)   Coordinating emergency management activities consistent with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (4)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
activities consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (5)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
duties in order to meet situations not covered in the normal duties and powers
of such agencies, consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (6)   Taking all necessary action, in coordination with the Department,
to conduct tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (7)   Educating themselves as to their responsibilities under the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
   (B)   As allowed by I.C. 36-2-2-8 and I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), a special meeting
of the County Board of Commissioners shall be called as soon as possible after
the disaster emergency that affects the county has been declared, either by the
Governor or by the principle executive officer of the county, to perform their
legislative and administrative functions as the situation may demand.
      (1)   As required by I.C. 36-2-2-8(b) and I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), the
following conditions must be met for this meeting:
         (a)   The notice for the meeting must include a specific statement of
the purpose of the meeting;
         (b)   News media that have requested notice of meetings must be given
the same notice as is given the members of the County Board of Commissioners;
         (c)   The public must be notified of this meeting by posting a copy of
the notice at the principal office of the County Board of Commissioners, or, if
no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to be held;
         (d)   The County Board of Commissioners may not conduct any business
at this meeting that is unrelated to the disaster emergency declaration; and
         (e)   All other such requirements that are applicable to a meeting
that is called to deal with an emergency.
      (2)   In addition, such a meeting may:
         (a)   Be held in any convenient and available place;
         (b)   Continue without adjournment for the duration of the disaster
emergency; and
         (c)   Be recessed for reasonable periods of time as necessary and
permitted by the circumstances.
   (C)   At the meeting convened under division (B) above, the County Board of
Commissioners may exercise any of its normal executive and legislative powers
to the extent related to the emergency, and necessary to deal therewith.
      (1)   In addition to the powers enumerated in division (C) above, the
Board of Commissioners may also exercise any of the following special, and
extraordinary, powers:
         (a)   The County Board of Commissioners may extend the period of a
local disaster emergency declared by the principle executive officer of the
county, pursuant to §
35.15(A), to last more than seven days, if necessary;
         (b)   The County Board of Commissioners may terminate the local
disaster emergency;
         (c)   The County Board of Commissioners may assemble, and utilize,
emergency management resources, including:
            1.   Personnel of the Department of Emergency Management;
            2.   Participating emergency services; and
            3.   Any other resources at the disposal of the Board hereunder for
emergency management purposes.
         (d)   The County Board of Commissioners may order volunteer forces
which have been activated, pursuant to the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan, to the aid of the county, state, or political subdivisions thereof as
soon as practicable. These volunteer forces shall be under the direction of the
Department of Emergency Management.
         (e)   In order to control the local disaster emergency and provide for
public health, safety, and welfare, the County Board of Commissioners may, to
the extent permitted by I.C. 10-14-3-31, and subject to its provisions, command
services and/or requisition the use of:
            1.   Equipment;
            2.   Facilities;
            3.   Supplies; or
            4.   Other property.
         (f)   The County Board of Commissioners may order the evacuation of
all, or part, of the population from stricken areas of the county, and
prescribe:
            1.   Routes;
            2.   Modes of transportation; and
            3.   Evacuation destinations.
         (g)   The County Board of Commissioners may make provisions for
availability and use of temporary emergency housing, which housing need not
necessarily comply with any minimum housing standards, building or zoning
regulations, and the like, which would govern the use and location of premises
for housing purposes during normal times.
         (h)   Except in accordance with division (C)(1)(i) below, the County
Board of Commissioners shall not suspend any provisions of ordinances or
procedures, which are mandated by statute.
         (i)   In the event of a disaster emergency that has been declared by
the Governor, the County Board of Commissioners, in accordance with I.C. 10-14-
3-17(j)(5), may waive any procedures or requirements of statute, or of county
ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and mandates, pertaining to:
            1.   The performance of public works;
            2.   The entering into contracts;
            3.   The incurring of obligations;
            4.   The employment of permanent and temporary workers;
            5.   The utilization of volunteer workers;
            6.   The rental of equipment;
            7.   The purchase, and distribution, of supplies, materials, and
facilities; and
            8.   The appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
         (j)   The County Board of Commissioners may assign any special
emergency duties and functions to county:
            1.   Offices;
            2.   Departments; and
            3.   Agencies.
         (k)   Any unexpended and unencumbered monies budgeted and
appropriated, but not otherwise dedicated by law to different purposes, may,
within the scope of each major budget and appropriation category (major object
classification), be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying out such
special emergency duties and functions.
         (l)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22, the County Board of Commissioners
may make, amend, and rescind such orders, rules, and regulations as may be
necessary for emergency management purposes, and to supplement the carrying out
of the provisions of this chapter. Such orders, rules, and regulations:
            1.   Cannot be inconsistent with any orders, rules, or regulations
promulgated by the Governor, or by any state agency exercising a power
delegated to it by the Governor;
            2.   Cannot be inconsistent with the county’s emergency management
program or Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
            3.   Shall have full force and effect of law when filed in the
office of the County Clerk; and
            4.   Are enforceable by any local or state law enforcing authority
in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-24.
         (m)   The County Board of Commissioners may, in accordance with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, request the state or the United
States, or their agencies and political subdivisions, to send aid (including
financial assistance) if the situation is beyond the control of the regular and
emergency county forces and resources.
      (2)   All actions taken by the County Board of Commissioners under this
division (C) shall be:
         (a)   Adopted by ordinance or resolution, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22;
and
         (b)   Consistent with, and subordinate to, any actions, orders, or
regulations made by the Governor, or a state agency, implementing the State
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.14 APPLICABILITY OF POWERS.
   This section shall apply whenever:
   (A)   The Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12, has declared a disaster
emergency affecting all, or part, of the county;
   (B)   The principle executive officer of the county, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-
3-29(a), and §
35.13(B) hereof, is preparing to, or has, declared a local disaster emergency
affecting all, or part, of the county; and
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the
county’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and procedures in accordance
with, and to the extent necessary or dispensable to such test.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.15 PRINCIPLE EXECUTIVE OFFICER; SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   In the event of an actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting
the county, if feasible, the principle executive officer of the county shall
seek the advice and input of the Director as to the advisability of declaring a
local disaster emergency.
      (1)   If the County Board of Commissioners, acting as the principle
executive officer of the county, is the entity declaring the local disaster
emergency, then the statutory requirements contained in I.C. 36-2-2-8 and I.C.
5-14-1.5-5(d) regarding special and emergency meetings of the County Board of
Commissioner must be met.
      (2)   The principle executive officer of the county may, in the event of
an actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting the county, declare a
local disaster emergency, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29(a). This declaration
shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   State the nature of the disaster;
         (c)   State the conditions that have brought the disaster about;
         (d)   State the area, or areas, threatened;
         (e)   State the area, or areas, to which the local disaster emergency
declaration applies (this may include the entire county or only designated
parts thereof); and
         (f)   State the effective period of the local disaster emergency
declaration. The disaster declaration shall not be continued or renewed for a
period in excess of seven days except by, or with, the consent of the County
Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   The declaration of a local disaster emergency, as well as any
continuation or termination of such declaration, shall be:
         (a)   Announced or disseminated to the general public by the best
means available; and
         (b)   Filed promptly in the offices of the County Clerk, the County
Auditor, and the clerk of any incorporated municipality located in the declared
disaster area.
      (4)   The declaration shall not be invalidated or ineffective if any of
the filing and dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the
prevailing adverse circumstances.
      (5)   Upon a declaration, the County’s Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan, or such component parts thereof, as may be relevant to the emergency,
shall be activated and implemented.
   (B)   In the event that a disaster emergency has been declared that affects
all, or part, of the county, and a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners
cannot be assembled for purposes of the meeting needed under §
35.13(B), the principle executive officer of the county shall have, on an
interim basis, all the powers of the County Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   The principle executive officer may take all such actions, with
respect to the disaster emergency declaration, that the County Board of
Commissioners would have been authorized to take.
      (2)   When a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is assembled,
these interim powers of the principle executive officer of the county shall
cease.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.16 COUNTY OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES; GENERAL DUTIES.
   During a declared disaster emergency, all officers and employees of
incorporated, and unincorporated, areas of the county shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with, and give active support to, the County Board of
Commissioners and the County Emergency Management Director; and
   (B)   Comply with all orders, rules, and regulations issued pursuant to this
chapter by the County Board of Commissioners or the County Emergency Management
Director.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.17 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Whenever this chapter applies, it shall be unlawful, and a penal chapter
violation, for any person to:
   (A)   Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay the County Board of Commissioners
the Director of Emergency Management, participating emergency services,
authorized emergency management volunteers, or other authorities from
implementing, carrying out, and enforcing the Emergency Plan;
   (B)   Fail to observe, abide by, and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations, and procedures as made applicable to such person
by the appropriate authorities; and/or
   (C)   Falsely wear, or carry, identification as a member of the County
Department of Emergency Management, or to otherwise falsely identify, or
purport to be, a county emergency management authority.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.18 COMPENSATION; PROPERTY COMMANDEERED.
   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-31, compensation for property shall be paid only if
the property was commandeered, or otherwise used, in coping with a disaster
emergency, and its use or destruction was ordered by the Governor, or a member
of the disaster emergency forces of the state. Any person claiming compensation
for the use, damage, loss, or destruction of such property shall make a claim
for it. This claim shall be filed and adjudicated as provided in I.C. 32-24.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 35.19 MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The adoption of the Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan (MHMP) does not
obligate or mandate the county to use local tax money for projects identified
in any Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan (MHMP).
   (B)   The Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan (MHMP) for the county is hereby
adopted as an official plan of the county.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption by County Board of Commissioners and shall repeal and replace all
previous multi-hazard mitigation plans.
(Res. 2021-11, passed 3-23-2021)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who commits an offense as described in §
35.17 shall be liable to a fine of $2,500; such fine to be subject, however, to
the discretion of the court of jurisdiction.
   (C)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the state, or any of its
political subdivisions, is hereby empowered to issue, and serve, a civil
citation against any person found to be committing an offense described in §
35.17.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 7-19-2005)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCES
Section
Funds
   
36.01   Economic Development Revolving Fund
   
36.02   Parks and Recreation Board; non-reverting funds
   
36.03   Problem Solving Court Fund
   
36.04   County Corrections Fund
   
36.05   Law Enforcement Fund
   
36.06   Electronic Map General Fund
   
36.07   Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund
   
36.08   ARP Grant Fund
Finances
   
36.20   Capital asset policy
   
36.21   Pre-approved, pre-payment procedures
   
36.22   Purchasing practices
   
36.23   Co-payments of inmates at the County Jail
   
36.24   Authorization for appropriation
   
36.25   Public-private agreements
FUNDS
§ 36.01 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REVOLVING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created the County Economic Development Revolving
Fund, pursuant to I.C. 5-1-14-14(b).
   (B)   The county may lend the money in the revolving fund to any borrower if
the County Council finds that the loan will be used by the borrower for one or
more of the following economic development purposes:
      (1)   Promoting significant opportunities for the gainful employment of
the county’s residents;
      (2)   Attracting a major new business enterprise to the county; and/or
      (3)   Retaining or expanding a significant business enterprise in the
county.
   (C)   Activities that may be undertaken by the borrower in carrying out an
economic development purpose includes expenditures for any of the following:
      (1)   Acquisition of land;
      (2)   Acquisition of property interests;
      (3)   Site improvements;
      (4)   Infrastructure improvements;
      (5)   Buildings;
      (6)   Structures;
      (7)   Rehabilitation, renovation, or enlargement of buildings or
structures;
      (8)   Machinery;
      (9)   Equipment; and
      (10)   Furnishings.
   (D)   A resolution of the County Council approving a loan from the Revolving
Fund must contain the following:
      (1)   Term of the loan;
      (2)   Interest rate;
      (3)   Form of the note or notes;
      (4)   Medium of payment;
      (5)   Place and manner of payment;
      (6)   Manner of execution of the note or notes;
      (7)   Terms of redemption; and
      (8)   Any other provisions not inconsistent with this section.
   (E)   The county may issue bonds pursuant to I.C. 36-9-32-7(b) through 36-9-
32-7(j) for the economic development purposes listed in division (C) above, and
may repay the indebtedness solely from revenues derived from the repayment of
loans made from the Economic Development Revolving Fund.
   (F)   Money in the Revolving Fund may, at any time, be transferred in whole,
or in part, to the county’s Economic Development Income Tax Fund.
(Council Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 36.02 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD; NON-REVERTING FUNDS.
   (A)   The County Council hereby approves the establishment of two separate
non-reverting funds; namely, a special non-reverting capital fund and a special
non-reverting operating fund within the budget of the County Parks and
Recreation Department pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3-22.
   (B)   The non-reverting operating fund shall be created from monies and fees
procured from park and recreational activities if so directed by the County
Parks and Recreation Board, which shall be deposited with the County Treasurer
and maintained in accordance with the statutes and regulations governing public
funds.
   (C)   The non-reverting capital fund shall be created from monies and fees
procured from the collection of facility rental fees and lease payments, which
shall be deposited with the County Treasurer and maintained in accordance with
the statutes and regulations governing public funds.
   (D)   Expenditures may be made from the funds created by this section upon
approved claims allowed by the County Parks and Recreation Board without
appropriation.
(Council Ord. 2012-04, passed 1-12-2012)
§ 36.03 PROBLEM SOLVING COURT FUND.
   The County Problem Solving Court Fund is hereby established. The purpose of
the fund is to defray the expense of administering, or ensuring, compliance
with the laws concerning the County Problem Solving Court. The County Council
may appropriate money from the fund for this purpose.
(Ord. 2011-21, passed 9-27-2011)
§ 36.04 COUNTY CORRECTIONS FUND.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby elects to receive such
deposits at Level 3 funding.
   (B)   There is hereby created a County Corrections Fund to be administered
by the County Council. The fund shall consist of deposits received from the
Department of Correction in accordance with I.C. 11-12-2-12.
   (C)   The County Corrections Fund may be used only for funding the operation
of the County Jail, jail programs, or other local correctional facilities. Any
money remaining in the County Corrections Fund at the end of the year does not
revert to any other fund, but remains in the County Corrections Fund.
(Ord. 2000-009, passed 4-17-2000)
§ 36.05 LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Law Enforcement Fund. The Fund shall consist
of deposits in the form of proceeds recovered by the Office of the County
Prosecutor, the County Drug Task Force, and/or the County Sheriff’s Department
in forfeiture actions filed pursuant to I.C. 32-24-1-4, liquidations of
personal or real property obtained from criminal defendants in those actions,
and voluntary surrenders of funds and assets from criminal defendants.
   (B)   The Law Enforcement Fund shall be appropriated for funding law
enforcement activities conducted by the County Sheriff’s Department, the County
Drug Task Force, other special crime units, and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred by the Prosecutor’s Office in pursuing forfeiture and RICO actions.
   (C)   All monies collected under this section shall be transferred to the
County Treasurer, who shall deposit said funds and disburse as the Prosecuting
Attorney directs, subject to the appropriation requirement of division (D)
below. Monies remaining in the fund at the end of the year shall not revert to
any other fund, but shall continue in the Law Enforcement Fund.
   (D)   Monies from the Fund shall be subject to appropriation by the County
Council, in accordance with I.C. 36-2-5-2.
   (E)   In order to facilitate the expenditure of the appropriated funds by
the County Drug Task Force, this section should permit the Prosecuting Attorney
to establish a Law Enforcement Fund checking account, which may bear interest,
to hold funds for usage by the County Drug Task Force after said funds have
been appropriated by the County Council.
      (1)   The Prosecuting Attorney is hereby authorized to place funds
appropriated from the Law Enforcement Fund in a NOW account, or similar
account, which may bear interest.
      (2)   The Prosecuting Attorney shall account to the County Auditor for
all interest earned on said account; the interest earned shall be kept and
retained in said checking account and used for the purposes set forth for the
principal sums.
      (3)   In establishing said checking account, the signatures of the
Prosecuting Attorney, or his or her Chief Deputy, and one of the County Drug
Task Force investigators must both be given in order to withdraw funds from the
checking account.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 5-4-1992; Ord. 1992-22, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 36.06 ELECTRONIC MAP GENERATION FUND.
   (A)   The Electronic Map Generation Fund is hereby established, which Fund
shall consist of electronic map inspection and copying fees collected by the
County Engineering Department on behalf of the County Board of Commissioners
and County Council.
   (B)   The Electronic Map Generation Fund shall be a dedicated fund
administered by the County Council for the following purposes:
      (1)   The maintenance and upgrading enhancement of the land base map;
      (2)   The reimbursement expenses incurred by the County Engineering
Department in supplying the land based map, or any portion thereof, in the form
requested; and
      (3)   The expenses of administering the Electronic Map Generation Fund
shall be paid from money in the Fund. Any money in the Fund not currently
needed to meet the obligation of the Fund in the same manner as other public
funds may be invested. Interest accruing from such investment shall be
deposited into the Fund.
(Council Ord. 95-7, passed 4-4-1995)
§ 36.07 SEX AND VIOLENT OFFENDER ADMINISTRATION FUND.
   The County Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund is hereby
established. The purpose of the fund is to defray the expense of administering,
or ensuring compliance with, the laws concerning the State Sex and Violent
Offender Registry. The County Council may appropriate money from the fund for
this purpose.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 36.08 ARP GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is created a new fund with the County Auditor’s office that
shall be entitled “ARP Grant Fund”, and the Auditor has issued a fund number of
8950 with respect to these funds, and such funds shall be non-reverting.
   (B)   The purpose of the Fund is to be used for only the following reasons
as set forth in ARP § 603(C) of in accordance with United States Treasury
Guidance:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or to aid the
impacted industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible works of the
metropolitan city, non-entitlement unit of local government or county that are
performing such essential, or by providing grants to eligible employers that
eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of such metropolitan city, non-entitlement unit of local
government, or county due to the COVID-19 public health emergency relative to
revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the metropolitan city
or non-entitlement unit of local government or county prior to the emergency;
or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer or broadband
infrastructure as approved by the United States Treasury.
   (C)   The funds shall be appropriated by the county’s fiscal body before
use.
   (D)   All expenditure of funds shall be approved by the County Board of
Commissioners with any and all claims to be paid from the county’s ARP Fund.
   (E)   The County Board of Commissioners will establish the plan, conditions,
and rules upon which the funds are to be requested and used.
   (F)   Any unused funds shall be paid back to the United States Treasury when
required.
   (G)   The Auditor shall keep accurate and complete financial records of the
receipt and expenditure of any and all funds deposited and paid from this new
Fund.
   (H)   No money received in the ARP Fund shall be used for any type of
deposit into any pension fund.
(Ord. 2021-51, passed 9-14-2021)
FINANCES
§ 36.20 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to facilitate the preparation
of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.
   (B)   Classification of assets. Capital assets are personal and real
property used in the operations of the county that have an expected estimated
useful life beyond a single period. Capital assets are to include any item that
falls into one of the following categories:
      (1)   Land;
      (2)   Building and building improvements;
      (3)   Machinery and equipment;
      (4)   Vehicles;
      (5)   Computer software;
      (6)   General infrastructure (roads, bridges, and rights-of-way); and
      (7)   Construction in progress.
   (C)   Capitalization thresholds.
      (1)   To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting purposes,
an item must be at, or above, the capitalization threshold, and have a unit
historical cost of $10,000 or more.
      (2)   The capitalization threshold for the following classes of assets
shall be:
         (a)   Machinery, equipment, and vehicles: $10,000;
         (b)   Buildings and building improve-ments: $100,000;
         (c)   General infrastructure improve-ments: $200,000; and
         (d)   Computer software: $50,000.
      (3)   With regard to improvements and buildings, and general
infrastructure, a capital outlay must be significant and increase capacity,
increase efficiency, or extend the asset’s estimated useful life beyond the
original expectation.
      (4)   A change in capacity increases the level of service provided by the
asset. A change in efficiency increases the level of service but without
increasing the size of the asset, or the change maintains the same level of
service at a lower cost.
   (D)   Depreciation method/convention. Depreciation will be calculated using
the straight-line method and full-year convention. No salvage value or residual
value will be recognized.
   (E)   Retirements.
      (1)   Retirements apply to all capital assets including land, buildings,
machinery and equipment, vehicles, and general infrastructure.
      (2)   When an asset is disposed of, scrapped, sold, subject to
demolition, and the like, it is to be removed from the property record, and the
appropriate reduction will be made to historical cost, accumulated
depreciation, and net book value amounts.
      (3)   Retirements will reflect the actual historical cost of the asset
when the amount is ascertainable. When historical cost is not ascertainable, an
estimated historical cost will be determined.
   (F)   Responsibility for property record maintenance.
      (1)   The County Auditor will ensure that reporting for capital assets is
being exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory, both initially and
periodically, in subsequent years. The County Auditor will further ensure that
the capital asset report will be updated annually to reflect improvements,
additions, retirements, and transfers, and to reflect the new annual capital
asset balance for financial reporting purposes, and the annual and accumulated
depreciation calculations and net book value amounts.
      (2)   Day-to-day stewardship of personal property above the
capitalization threshold of $5,000 is the expressed responsibility of the
department utilizing the property.
      (3)   For annual updating of the capital asset report, the departments
have the responsibility to report improvements, additions, retirements, and
transfers in detail to the County Auditor. It is expected that this reporting
will be in a timely manner, as the capital asset record must be updated
annually.
   (G)   Property control.
      (1)   Capital assets below the capitalization threshold of $5,000 on a
unit basis, but warranting control, shall be inventoried at the department
level, and an appropriate list will be maintained. Data elements are to include
asset description, location, make, mode, serial number, and other information
that assists control or deemed relevant.
      (2)   The assets below the capitalized threshold, but considered
sensitive, may include, for example, weapons, radios, personal computers,
laptop computers, printers, fax machines, and small power tools. These minor,
but sensitive, items shall be inventoried and controlled at the department
level.
      (3)   The County Auditor shall determine appropriate means, level of
detailed data elements, and the system to be utilized.
      (4)   Finally, the County Auditor shall have the right to request copies
of the inventory and/or updated inventory of controllable items so as to
periodically review the information and adhere to policy.
(Res. 2019-24, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 36.21 PRE-APPROVED, PRE-PAYMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The following categories are designated for pre-approved or pre-
payment procedures:
      (1)   Property or services purchased, or leased, from the U.S.
Government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is prohibited;
      (6)   Grants or state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease or rental payments;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State or federal taxes;
      (12)   Expenses paid for emergency services;
      (13)   Collect freight deliveries;
      (14)   Conference registration approved by the Board of Commissioners;
      (15)   Reimbursement for conference expenses incurred while attending
approved conferences;
      (16)   Credit card or charge card expenses incurred by county government
offices for lawful purposes;
      (17)   Postage;
      (18)   Public health emergency;
      (19)   Mileage;
      (20)   Past due claims; and
      (21)   Negotiated settlements.
   (B)   Pursuant to state code, each payment must be fully itemized, and each
invoice or bill certified, by the County Auditor. The pre-approved or pre-paid
claim must be advertised and approved at the next scheduled meeting of the
County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2020-16, passed 4-14-2020)
§ 36.22 PURCHASING PRACTICES.
   (A)   Designation of purchasing agency.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners is hereby designated as the
purchasing agency for all boards, offices, commissions, councils, departments,
or other establishments of the county.
      (2)   A purchasing agent shall be the County Engineer’s Office for
purchases of $1,500 or less for regular maintenance, emergency, or other items
purchased in the normal course of business.
   (B)   Powers of purchasing agency. The purchasing agency designated in
division (A)(1) above shall:
      (1)   Assume the duties, powers, and responsibilities assigned to the
purchasing agencies under the Act (I.C. 5-22-1-1 et seq.);
      (2)   Establish procedures, not inconsistent with the Act or this
section, for obtaining supplies or services in a manner which will obtain the
greatest economic value for the county;
      (3)   Prepare specifications and notice to bidders, and ascertain that
required notices are published where bidding and publication of notices are
required by law;
      (4)   Designate, in writing, a purchasing agent to carry out the purposes
of this section. Such purchasing agent shall act as the agent for the
purchasing agency in the administration of the duties of the purchasing agency
under the Act. The purchasing agent may not make purchases except as provided
in division (C)(3) below; and
      (5)   Designate, in writing, such limited purchasing agents as the
purchasing agency deems appropriate, and define, in writing, the limitations of
their authority consistent with division (C)(4) below.
   (C)   Small purchase procedures.
      (1)   A SMALL PURCHASE is a purchase of supplies with an estimated cost
of less than $25,000.
      (2)   The purchasing agency may make a small purchase on the open market
without inviting, or receiving, quotes or bids.
      (3)   A purchasing agent is authorized to purchase supplies with an
estimated cost of less than $5,000 on the open market without inviting, or
receiving, quotes or bids.
      (4)   A limited purchasing agent is authorized to purchase supplies with
an estimated cost of $1,000 on the open market without inviting, or receiving,
quotes or bids.
   (D)   Preference for supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all purchases by the
purchasing agent, and shall be purchased unless the purchasing agent
determines, in writing, that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The price of supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds, by
an unreasonable amount, the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
(4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in the
public interest.
   (E)   Purchase of services. As used in this section, the term SERVICES means
the furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a person, not involving the
delivery of specific supplies other than printed documents, or other items that
are merely incidental to the required performance, including (but not limited
to) legal, medical, architectural, accounting, engineering, appraisal, and
insurance services. The purchasing agency may purchase services in whatever
manner the purchasing agency determines to be reasonable and appropriate.
(Res. 1998-4, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 36.23 CO-PAYMENTS OF INMATES AT THE COUNTY JAIL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section shall be to authorize and
establish a procedure for the County Sheriff to require inmates to make a co-
payment for medical treatment they receive while an inmate of the County Jail.
   (B)   Specifications. The General Assembly of the State has added a new
section to the state code, which establishes when the Sheriff may require a co-
payment from an inmate, and the Sheriff shall follow I.C. 11-12-5-5 which is
set forth as follows in the table below:
“Sec. 5.(a)    This section does not apply to a person confined to a County Jail who:
         (1)   maintains a policy of insurance from a private company covering:
            (a)   medical care;
            (b)   dental care;
            (c)   eye care; or
            (d)   any other health care related service;
         (2)   is willing to pay for the person’s own medical care; or
         (3)   is committed to the Department of Correction.
      (b)   except as provided in subsection (b), a person confined to a County Jail may be
required to make a copayment in an amount not more than ten ($10) dollars for each
provision of any of the following services:
         (1)   medical care
         (2)   dental care
         (3)   eye care
         (4)   any other health care related service
      (c)   a person confined to a County Jail required to make a copayment under
subsection (b) if:
         (1)   the person does not have funds in the person’s commissary account or trust
account at the time the service is provided;
         (2)   the person does not have funds the person’s commissary account or trust
account within thirty (30) days after the service is provided;
         (3)   the service is provided in an emergency;
         (4)   the service is provided as a result of an injury received in the County
Jail; or
         (5)   the service is provided at the request of the Sheriff or Jail Administrator.
      (d)   Money collected must be deposited the County Medical Care for Inmates Fund.
      (e)   Rules for the implementation this section must be approved by the County
legislative body.”
 
   (C)   Procedure. Prior to the collection of any funds by the County Sheriff
under the authority of this section, the Sheriff shall prepare a set of rules
and regulations establishing the manner and procedure as to how the collection
of funds shall be carried out.
(Ord. 1994-12, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 36.24 AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROPRIATION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners is authorized to budget, and the County
Council is authorized to appropriate, funds from the General Fund, or from
other funds, to provide membership for the county, and for the elected and
appointed officials and members of the county’s boards, council, departments,
or agencies in local, regional, state, and national associations of a civic,
educational, or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the betterment
and improvement of county government operations.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners is further authorized to budget, and the
County Council is further authorized to appropriate, funds to pay the expenses
of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and functions of
organizations to which the county belongs.
(Ord. 1982-10, passed - -)
§ 36.25 PUBLIC-PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Adoption of I.C. 5-23 et seq. The Commissioners hereby adopt the
provisions of I.C. 5-23 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   Authorization. The county shall comply with the processes, procedures,
and requirements set forth in I.C. 5-23 et seq. prior to entering into any
public-private agreement thereunder.
(Res. 2022-36, passed 8-9-2022)
CHAPTER 37: FEES AND SCHEDULES
Section
Fees
   
37.01   Sheriff’s sales
   
37.02   Problem Solving Court
   
37.03   County Courthouse
   
37.04   Annual sex or violent offender registration
   
37.05   Real property endorsement
   
37.06   Enhanced emergency telephone system
   
37.07   Bad check service fee
   
37.08   Inmate processing fee
   
37.09   Copies of documents
   
37.10   Duplicate tax statements and documents
   
37.11   County Recorder; recording documents
Fee Schedule
   
37.25   Planning and Building Department Uniform Schedule
   
37.26   Erosion Control Uniform Schedule
   
37.27   Drainage Board Uniform Schedule
   
37.28   Health Board Uniform Schedule
FEES
§ 37.01 SHERIFF’S SALES.
   (A)   Fees.
      (1)   Administrative fee. The administrative cost fee for Sheriff’s sales
in the county shall be $200. Payment of the fee shall be made by the person
seeking to enforce the judgment and decree, and due at the time of filing of
the praecipe.
      (2)   Process fee. The Sheriff shall charge a fee of $10 to one owner,
and $3 to each additional owner for service of written notice.
   (B)   Payment of fees. All fees collected under this section shall be
collected by the County Sheriff’s Department at the time of filing of the
praecipe under I.C. 32-29-7-3(b).
   (C)   Procedures. All fees collected under this section by the County
Sheriff’s Department shall be transferred to the County Auditor. On a monthly
basis, the County Auditor shall deposit 100% of any fees collected under this
section into the County General Fund.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 37.02 PROBLEM SOLVING COURT.
   (A)   The Problem Solving Court will charge fees authorized by this section,
and may develop and observe written policy and procedure on the assessment and
collection of fees.
   (B)   Participants admitted to the Problem Solving Court shall be assessed a
Problem Solving Court administration fee of $100 for initial Problem Solving
Court services.
   (C)   Participants admitted to the Problem Solving Court shall be assessed a
monthly user fee of $50, beginning with the second month of participation, and
for each month thereafter, for the duration of their participation in the
program.
   (D)   Participants admitted to the Problem Solving Court shall be
responsible for all chemical testing fees. Participants shall be assessed $8
per urine drug screen. Participants shall also be responsible for the cost of
any confirmatory test.
(Ord. 2015-41, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 37.03 COUNTY COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   To cover the costs of custodial services and the additional security,
there is a need to assess a fee associated with the non-county governmental use
of the County Courthouse.
   (B)   Those fees, along with regulations, are as follows.
      (1)   Approved. Approval for the use of the County Courthouse for non-
government events and activities must be granted by the Board of Commissioners.
All arrangements following approval shall be made with the facilities manager.
      (2)   Agreement form/cleaning deposit. An agreement form shall be
completed and filed with the facilities manager, along with a $50 cleaning
deposit. The cleaning deposit is refundable if no extraordinary final cleaning
is required.
      (3)   Custodial fee. A charge of $40 per hour for the custodial fee. This
includes set up and tear down of any county-provided materials (for example,
tables and chairs) and final clean up.
      (4)   Additional fees. At the discretion of the Board of Commissioners,
additional fees may be charged for unusual or special requests. A separate
additional fee of $100 may be charged for any use of the facilities on a
county-approved holiday.
      (5)   Multiple floors. An additional fee of $30 per floor may be charged
if more than one floor is requested for an event.
      (6)   Security and fee. The applicant shall be required to provide
security personnel from the County Sheriff’s Department during the duration of
an event. The Board of Commissioners and Sheriff’s Department will determine
the level of security needed for an event, including the number of deputies. A
fee of $30 per hour, per deputy, will be charged for security for the duration
of the event. The applicant must make final security arrangements directly with
the Sheriff’s Department.
      (7)   Security scanning. At the discretion of the Board of Commissioners,
all attendees of an event may be subject to security scanning for prohibited
items. This includes individual attendees as well as all packages, bags,
purses, containers, and the like.
      (8)   Payment. Checks for the cleaning deposit and the custodial fee
shall be made payable to the County Board of Commissioners, and must be
submitted with the agreement form. Checks for the security fee shall be made
payable to the County Sheriff’s Department, and must be submitted with the
agreement form.
      (9)   Clean up. The applicant is responsible for putting all trash in
proper receptacles.
      (10)   Removal of items. The applicant is responsible for removal of all
personal items (for example, decorations, food containers, and the like)
immediately after the activity, unless prior arrangements have been made with
the facilities manager.
      (11)   Cancellation. Cancellations should be made in writing to the
facilities manager at least two days prior to the activity. If an emergency
arises at the last minute the applicant must contact the facilities manager as
soon as possible.
      (12)   Alcoholic beverages. Use of alcoholic beverages is strictly
prohibited at the County Courthouse.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 37.04 ANNUAL SEX OR VIOLENT OFFENDER REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration fees. The annual fee for sex or violent offenders
registering in the county shall be $50. Payment of the fee shall be made upon
the offender’s initial registration in the county, and subsequently on, or
before, each annual registration date.
   (B)   Change of address fee. A fee of $5 shall be charged and collected each
time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with the County
Sheriff’s Department.
   (C)   Payment of fees. All fees collected under this section shall be
collected by the County Sheriff’s Department when a sex or violent offender
registers with the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (D)   Procedures. All fees collected under this section by the County
Sheriff’s Department shall be transferred to the County Auditor. On a monthly
basis, the County Auditor shall:
      (1)   Deposit 90% of any fees collected under this section in the County
Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund under I.C. 36-2-13-5.6; and
      (2)   Transfer 10% of any fees collected under this section to the state
for deposit in the State Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund under
I.C. 11-8-8-21.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 37.05 REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 36-2-9-18, the County Auditor may collect a
fee of $10 for each legal description of each parcel contained in the
instrument for which the County Auditor makes a real property endorsement.
   (B)   Such fee shall be in addition to any other fee provided by law, and
shall be placed in a dedicated fund for the use of maintaining the plat books.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 6-25-2019)
§ 37.06 ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM.
   (A)   A monthly fee of $2.06 per telephone access line, or other exchange
access facility, will be collected by the service supplier to pay the lease,
purchase, or maintenance of enhanced emergency telephone equipment, including
necessary computer hardware, software, and database provisioning, and the rates
associated with the service suppliers’ enhanced emergency telephone system
network services.
   (B)   The service supplier(s) shall be entitled to retain an administrative
fee of 3% of the monthly fees collected as compensation for collecting the
fees.
   (C)   All monthly fees collected, except for the 3% administrative fee,
shall be remitted to the County Treasurer within ten days after the last day of
the calendar quarter. The service supplier shall provide a fee collection
report to the County Auditor (fiscal officer) of the county at the same time
the collected fees are remitted. The service supplier shall prepare the report
on a form provided by the County Auditor.
   (D)   The County Auditor shall deposit the remitted fees in a separate fund
named the County Emergency Telephone System Fund. The County Treasurer may
invest monies in the fund in the same manner that other monies of the county
are invested, with the interest earned from such investment to be deposited in
that fund.
   (E)   During January of each year, each service supplier that collects the
enhanced emergency telephone system fee for the county shall provide a
delinquent fee report to the County Auditor. The report shall list the name,
address, and amount due for each service user who is two, or more, months
delinquent in paying the fee.
(Council Ord. 2005-18, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 37.07 BAD CHECK SERVICE FEE.
   Whenever any person, firm, corporation, or partnership shall present a check
to any county office, or county official or employee, in payment of any tax,
fee, fine, or other charge in connection with official county business, and
whenever such check shall be returned to the county after deposit because of
insufficient funds, stop payment, or account closed, such person, firm,
corporation, or partnership shall pay a service charge of $20 to cover the
additional administrative cost necessary to process such check. Such service
charge shall be in addition to the amount necessary to cover the funds
represented by such check.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 2-19-2002)
§ 37.08 INMATE PROCESSING FEE.
   (A)   The Sheriff shall assess a $25 processing fee each time a person is
processed into the County Jail.
   (B)   The processing fee shall be collected before the inmate is released
from jail, or the fee shall be deducted from the inmate’s jail commissary fund.
These funds shall further be deposited into the County General Fund.
(Ord. 2002-06, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 37.09 COPIES OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Standard copy machine. The Board of Commissioners directs all
departments within the county government under their jurisdiction to collect a
$0.10 fee for each standard copy machine copy provided to a member of the
public. The sizes of paper for these copies are eight and a half inches by 11
inches, eight and one-half inches by 14 inches, and 11 inches by 17 inches.
   (B)   Photostatic copies. The Board of Commissioners directs all county
officers, except the Engineering Department, to collect fees for photostatic
copies made within their office at the following rate: $0.50 per copy.
   (C)   Engineering Department. The County Board of Commissioners directs the
Engineering Department to collect fees for copies made within their office at
the following rates:
      (1)   Blue line copies.
         (a)   Eighteen inches by 24 inches: $1.50 per copy; and
         (b)   Twenty-four inches by 36 inches: $1.50 per copy.
      (2)   Electrostatic copies.
         (a)   For bond:
            1.   Eighteen inches by 24 inches: $2 per copy; and
            2.   Twenty-four inches by 36 inches: $2 per copy.
         (b)   For vellum:
            1.   Eighteen inches by 24 inches: $2 per copy; and
            2.   Twenty-four inches by 36 inches: $2 per copy.
         (c)   For Mylar:
            1.   Eighteen inches by 24 inches: $3 per copy; and
            2.   Twenty-four inches by 36 inches: $4 per copy.
   (D)   Electronic map inspection. The copying fees, as established by the
County Board of Commissioners, will be $0.02 per acre per layer.
(Ord. 21 1993, passed 5-17-1993; Ord. 1994-4, passed 3-14-1994; Council Ord.
95-7, passed 4-4-1995; Ord. 005 2000, passed 3-6-2000)
§ 37.10 DUPLICATE TAX STATEMENTS AND DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Statement charge. Whereas, when a person, corporation, firm, or other
entity shall request a drainage or other assessment statement, tax statement,
or any other document, in addition to, or in duplicate form of those originally
provided, the County Treasurer is authorized, and directed, to collect the sum
of $1 for each such additional or duplicate statement requested.
   (B)   Depository for funds. All funds received by the County Treasurer for
the additional statements in division (A) above shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the county.
(Ord. 1987-10, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 37.11 COUNTY RECORDER; RECORDING DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   A supplemental fee for recording a document in the amount of $3 per
document shall be charged by the County Recorder’s Office.
   (B)   All revenue received by the Recorder pursuant to this section shall be
deposited in the County Recorder’s Records Perpetuation Fund.
   (C)   The County Recorder shall post the fee set forth in this section in a
prominent place within the Recorder’s Office where the fee schedule is readily
accessible to the public.
(Ord. 1995-29, passed 9-5-1995)
FEE SCHEDULES
§ 37.25 PLANNING AND BUILDING DEPARTMENT UNIFORM SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Plan Commission.
Submission/Action Fees
Submission/Action                                             Fees
                    Minor plat                                $540
                    Major plat primary      SFR, TFR          $685 + $17/lot
                                           MFR, HPR, Non-Res $800 +$10/acre
Plats               Major plat secondary    SFR, TFR          $685+ $11/lot
                                           MFR, HPR, Non-Res $800 + $5/acre
                    Minor residential plat                    $230
                    Revision                                  $455
                    Amendment                                 $570
                    Extension of time to    $230
Plats, cont’d     record
                    Replat or plat vacation $365
                    Exempt subdivision      $200
Traffic study       When applicable, see    Based on type, size and location of
                    handout                 project
Fiscal impact study When applicable, see    Based on type, size and location of
                    handout                 project
Zoning amendment                            $570 + $29/acre
                    Primary development     $685 + $17/acre
                    plan PUD fee
PUD                 Secondary development   $685 + $11/acre
                    plan PUD fee
                    Amendment to PUD        $455 + $11/acre
                    ordinance
                    Primary                 $685 + $17/acre
Development plan    Secondary               $455 + $11/acre
                    Amendment               $570
Waiver of SCO       Major plat              $570
requirement         Minor plat              $230
Exception           Major plat              $230
                    Minor plat              $115
Legal notice                                $55
                    Applicant-initiated
Continuance         continuance after first $100
                    one
Administrative development plan review      $150
Administrative special event review         $150
Special event review                        $630
 
   (B)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
 
Submission/Action                                   Fees
Dev. stds. variance Residential and non-residential $345
Special exception   Residential and non-residential $460
Legal notice                                       $55
Appeal                                             $340
 
   (C)   Addressing.
      (1)   Owner-requested address change: $55.
   (D)   Residential construction.
Type of Construction Review or Inspection Fees
Type of Construction Review or Inspection     Fees
Principal Building Application Review Fees
   Single-family residential               $285
   Two-family residential                  $430
   Addition (up to 3 rooms)                $115
   Addition (more than 3 rooms same as SFR)$285
   Remodel                                 $115
Principal Building Inspection Fees
   Footing                                 $55 + $0.03/sf > 2,000 sf
   Foundation pre pour                     $55
   Foundation / Underslab                  $55 + $0.03/sf > 2,000 sf
   Rough in / Fire caulk                   $80 + $0.04/sf > 2,000 sf
   Insulation                              $80 + $0.04/sf > 2,000 sf
   New meter / Upgrade / Relocate          $30 + $0.03/sf > 2,000 sf
   Occupancy                               $65 + $0.04/sf > 2,000 sf
   Subsurface drain                        $30
Accessory Structures Application Review Fees
(Storage building / detached garages / pole barn / gazebo / pergolas / decks /
mini barn / carport / etc.)
   New structure / up to 350 square feet   $50
   New structure / 351 square feet or great$75
   Addition                                $60
   Remodel                                 $60
Accessory Structure Inspection Fees
   Footing                                 $55 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
   Foundation / Underslab                  $55 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
   Rough in / Fire caulk                   $55 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
 
Type of Construction Review or Inspection Fees
Type of Construction Review or Inspection              Fees
Accessory Structure Inspection Fees, cont’d
   Insulation                                       $55 + $0.02/sf > 2,000
                                                       sf
   New meter / Upgrade / Relocate                   $30 + $0.02/sf > 2,000
                                                       sf
   Occupancy                                        $55 + $0.02/sf> 2,000 sf
Agricultural Structures Application Review Fees
   New structure                                    $75
   Addition / Remodel                               $60
Agricultural Structure Inspection Fees
   Development standard                             $55
   New meter / Upgrade / Relocate                   $60
Swimming Pool
   Application review fee  In ground / Above ground $75
   Above ground inspection Setback / Electrical /   $50
fee                           Life safety / Final
   In ground inspection feeFirst bonding / Setback  $50
                             Second bonding / Grid    $50
                             Third life safety /      $50
                              Final
Ground Mounted Solar Panels Application Review Fee     $75
Ground Mounted Solar Panels Inspection Fees
   Footing                                          $50
   Electric                                         $50
   Final                                            $50
Roof Mounted Solar Panels Application Filing Fee /     $100
Inspection Fee
Electrical                    All principal and        $60
                              accessory uses
Plumbing                      All principal and        $60
                              accessory uses
Relocation                    Principal and accessory fee same as new
                              construction
Demolition                    Per structure            $75
Temporary Manufactured Home (single unit)
   Application review fee                           $75
   Inspection fee          Tie downs / Electrical   $50
 
   (E)   Multi-family / commercial / industrial construction.
Type of Construction Review or Inspection Fees
Type of Construction Review or Inspection          Fees
Principal Building
Application review fees Principal new              $1,140
                       Addition (up to 1,000 sf)  $300
                       Addition (1,001 sf - 3,000 $500
                        sf)
                       Addition (3,000 sf +)      $750
                       Remodel                    $570
Inspection fees         Footing                    $105 + $0.03/sf > 2,000 sf
                       Foundation / Underslab     $105 + $0.03/sf > 2,000 sf
                       Above ceiling              $150
                       Rough in / Fire caulk      $215+ $0.05/sf> 2,000 sf
                       Pre rock                   $200
                       Shear wall / Fire wall     $200
                       Insulation                 $200 + $0.05/sf > 2,000 sf
                       Health care / Med gas      $200
                       New meter / Upgrade /      $54 + $0.03/sf > 2,000 sf
                        Relocate
                       Occupancy                  $160 + $0.05/sf > 2,000 sf
Unfinished Warehouse (Shell buildings to be built out later)
Application review fee  Principal new              $750
Inspection fees         Footing                    $100 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
                       Foundation / Underslab     $100 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
                       Rough in / Fire caulk      $200 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
                       Insulation                 $200 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
                       New meter / Upgrade /      $50 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
                        Relocate
                       Occupancy                  $150 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
 
Type of Construction Review or Inspection Fees
Type of Construction Review or Inspection            Fees
Accessory Structures
   Storage building / Detached garage / Pole barn / Gazebo / Pergolas / Decks /
Mini barn / Carport / etc.
Application review fee                              $340
Inspection fees        Footing                       $100 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
                      Foundation / Underslab        $100 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
                      Rough in / Fire caulk         $200 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
                      Insulation                    $200 + $0.02/sf >2,000 sf
                      New meter / Upgrade /         $50 + $0.02/sf >2,000 sf
                       Relocate
                      Occupancy                     $150 + $0.02/sf > 2,000 sf
Racking / Conveyor
Application review fee                              $570
Inspection fees        Footing                       $100 + $0.03/sf > 2,000 sf
                      Foundation / Under slab       $100 + $0.03/sf > 2,000 sf
                      Rough in / Pull test          $200 + $0.03/sf > 2,000 sf
                      New meter / Upgrade /         $50 + $0.03/sf > 2,000 sf
                       Relocate
                      Final                         $150 + $0.03/sf > 2,000 sf
Swimming Pool
Application review fee                              $535
Inspection fees        Rough in                      $100
                      Underground piping /          $100
                       Grounding
                      Pressure test for pipes       $100
                      Walk surface / Drains         $100
                      Life safety / Fencing / Final $100
Electrical             All principal and accessory   $110
                       uses
Demolition             Per structure                 $150
Relocation             Principal and accessory fee same as new construction
 
Type of Construction Review or Inspection Fees
Type of Construction Review or Inspection      Fees
Generator / Solar Grid / Wind Generator
Application review fee                        $300
Inspection fees        Footing                 $100
                      Foundation / Under slab $100
                      Rough in                $100
                      Bonding                 $100
                      Final                   $100
Wireless Telecommunication Structure
Application review fee                        $300
Inspection fee         Footing                 $100
                      Grounding               $100
                      Final                   $100
Wireless Co-locate
Application review fee                        $300
Inspection fees        Electrical              $100
                      Bonding                 $100
 
   (F)   Floodplain development permit.
      (1)   Non-structural: $100.
   (G)   Subdivision.
      (1)   Subdivision inspection, per hour charge: $90.
      (2)   Subsurface drain inspection: $29.
   (H)   Signs.
      (1)   Review. Master sign plan review (in addition to sf fee).
         (a)   Single sign: $125.
         (b)   More than one sign: $250.
      (2)   Sign application fees by square feet or sign type.
 
Sign Size / Type     Fees
Up to 100 sq ft      $215
101 to 300 sq ft     $400
301 to 1,000 sq ft   $855
Over 1,000 sq ft     $1,083
Temporary / Portable $57
Agricultural signs   No fee
 
      (3)   Signs advertising agricultural activities in zoning districts
permitting those activities require an ILP but are exempt from fees.
   (I)   Administrative fees.
Category Fees
Category                                        Fees
Research
 Zoning compliance                             $20 up to 1 hr, $40 over 1 hr
 Record / file search or similar activity      $20 up to 1 hr, $40 over 1 hr
File Retrieval (Copies Not Included)
 In building                                   $5
 In archive                                    $35
Advisory Building Inspection/Report
 Inspection                                    $50
 Report                                        $100
Building Permit Report                          $10
Contractor Listing                              $175
Missed Inspection                               $400
Expedited Review                                $70
Expedited / Timed Inspection                    $100
Returned Check                                  $29
Filing Fee (when permit has expired or renewed) $60
Addendum to Building Plans
 
Category Fees
Category                                                                  Fees
                                                                          $1,140
Illegal Structure                                                         first day,
   *A structure not being used for the purpose for which it was built. $570 each
                                                                          additional
                                                                          day
Post Construction Permit                                                  Triple the
   *For construction started without an approved building permit.      application
                                                                          fee
Residential Reinspect Fees
 First                                                                   $150
 Second                                                                  $200
 Third or more                                                           $300
Commercial Reinspect Fees
 First                                                                   $200
 Second                                                                  $250
 Third                                                                   $300
Stop Work Orders
                                                                          $535 or 2x
 Permit reinstatement                                                    filing fee,
                                                                          whichever
                                                                          is greater
                                                                          $1,140
                                                                          first day,
 Continued construction after order                                      $570 each
                                                                          additional
                                                                          day
Pre Inspection
 Residential                                                             $100
 Commercial                                                              $200
Permit Extension
 Residential                                                             $100
 Commercial                                                              $200
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy (up to 90 days)
 Residential                                                             $100
 Commercial                                                              $200
Documents (Unbound)
 Subdivision Control Ordinance                                           $40
 Zoning Ordinance                                                        $55
 Comprehensive Plan                                                      $55
 
Category Fees
Category                        Fees
Documents (Unbound), cont’d
 Rules of Procedure            $10
 Contractor Listing Ordinance  $7
Photocopy
 Black and white 8.5 x 11      $0.10/page
                Over 8.5 x 11 $0.15/page
 Color           8.5 x 11      $0.50/page
                Over 8.5 x 11 $1.00/page
Plot
 18 x 24 or smaller            $5
 Over 18 x 24                  $10
 
 
Terms:
   SFR: Single Family Residential
   TFR: Two Family Residential
   MFR: Multi-Family Residential
   Non-Res: Non-Residential
   HPR: Horizontal Property Regime or Condominium
   ILP: Improvement Location Permit
 
(Ord. 2004-23, passed 5-18-2004; Ord. 2019-41, passed 11-26-2019; Ord. 2022-30,
passed 6-28-2022)
§ 37.26 EROSION CONTROL UNIFORM SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Erosion control uniform schedule of fees.
Type of Fee Fees
Type of Fee                             Fees
Amenity Area
Amendment to a development plan         $500, plus $10 per lot/acre/unit
Secondary development plan              $500, plus $10 per lot per acre/unit
Development Plan Review
Amendment to a development plan         $500, plus $10 per lot/acre/unit
Secondary development plan              $500, plus $10 per lot/acre/unit
Miscellaneous Fees
Copies                                  $1
Credit/debit transactions; charges less $1
than $33
Credit/debit transactions; charges      3% of transaction total
Returned check fee                      $25
Planned Unit Development
Amendment to an approved PUD            $500, plus $10 per lot/acre/unit
Secondary development plan              $500, plus $10 per lot/acre/unit
Ponds (except those ponds/detention areas already reviewed, and approved, in
the development process)
5,000 to 20,000 sq. ft. surface area    $100
disturbed
20,001 to 43,559 sq. ft. surface area   $200
disturbed
43,560 sq. ft. or more surface area     $300
disturbed
Residential; Principal
Accessory structures                    $100
Additions                               $100
Demolition                              $100
Detached garage                         $100
Expedited review                        $75
Multi-family dwelling                   $500
Relocation                              $100
Single-family dwelling                  $250
Swimming pools                          $100
Shopping Center
Amendment to approved secondary         $1,000, plus $10 per lot/acre/unit
development plan
Secondary development plan              $1,000, plus $10 per lot/acre/unit
Subdivision
Amendment to a major subdivision        $500, plus $10 per lot/acre/unit
Major subdivision; secondary            $500, plus $10 per lot/acre/unit
Minor subdivision; secondary            $250
Utility
5,000 to 20,000 sq. ft. surface area    $150
disturbed
20,001 to 43,559 sq. ft. surface area   $200
disturbed
43,560 sq. ft. or more surface area     $300
disturbed
 
   (B)   Engineering review. All projects disturbing over an acre require a
general stormwater permit which will be subject to review by our staff
engineer. The reviewing engineer will bill separately to the appropriate
parties for the review fee.
   (C)   Non-refundable. All fees are non-refundable.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2024-47, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 37.27 DRAINAGE BOARD UNIFORM SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Drainage Board and County Surveyor uniform schedule of fees.
Type of Fee Fees
Administrative Fees
Type of Fee                                          Fees
Administrative Fees
Copies                                               $2 per page
1.   Large format paper (up to 24"x36")           $5 per page
2.   Mylar (up to 24"x36")                        $1 per page
3.   Regular copy paper (up to 11"x17")
Credit/debit transaction fee                         $1
1.   Charges less than $33                        3% of transaction total
2.   Charges over $33
Recording fee*                                       $25
Returned check fee (or as stipulated by the          $55
Treasurer's Office)
Commercial/Industrial**
Primary/preliminary                                  $3,000
Secondary/final                                      $3,000
Development Plan Review (DPR)**
Primary/preliminary                                  $1,000
Secondary/final                                      $1,000
Fines and Penalties
After the fact permits                               $250 + original fee
Altering, damaging, relocating, or destroying a      $2,000 + cost of repair
regulated drain or drainage easement
Altering, damaging, relocating, or destroying        $10,000 + cost of repair
Section Corners
Noncompliance with Surveyor s Office policies,       $2,500
ordinances, and technical standards
Other Permits and Services
County verification of business location             $100
Petition for a new or lengthening of a regulated     $1,000
drain***
Petition to vacate a regulated drain permit          $1,000
Plot plan review                                     $100
Removal of obstruction                               $1,000
Televising service                                   $100 per hour
1.   Hendricks County departments                 $200 per hour
2.   Non-Hendricks County departments
Variance of a regulated drain easement permit        $1,000
Outlets, Crossings, and Encroachments
Individual residence and farms                       $250 each
1.   Regulated drain crossing                     $250 each
2.   Regulated drain encroachment permit          fee + $5 per ft.
   a.   Over 100 ft.                           $150 each
3.   Regulated drain outlet permit
Utilities, commercial and industrial                 $500 each
1.   Regulated drain crossing permit              $500 each
2.   Regulated drain encroachment permit          fee + $5 per ft.
   a.   Over 100 ft.                           $500 each
3.   Regulated drain outlet permit
Planned Unit Development (PUD)**
Primary/preliminary                                  $1,000
Secondary/final                                      $1,000
                                                     Fees are equal to the
Revisions, Amendments, and Replats                   original project application
                                                     fees.
Subdivision**
Major subdivision (MAP)**                            $1,000
1.   Primary/preliminary                          $1,000
2.   Secondary/final
Minor residential plat (MRP)**                       $250
1.   Primary and secondary as one submittal       $250 each
2.   Primary and secondary as separate submittals
Minor subdivision (MIP)**                            $750
1.   Primary and secondary as one submittal       $750 each
2.   Primary and secondary as separate submittals
Notes to Table
*   Checks must be made out to the Hendricks County Recorder s Office.
**   Additional review fees will apply.
***   Subject to associated costs, i.e., engineering fees, construction costs,
etc.
 
      (1)   All fees are non-refundable. Fees on this schedule can be modified/
waived at the discretion of the County Drainage Board. Appeals can be made to
the Drainage Board and/or County Surveyor.
      (2)   If an engineering project is continued three times, the project
will be canceled/declined, and outstanding fees must be paid. Projects must
wait one year from original submission date to re-apply, and resubmissions will
be subject to new fees.
   (B)   Engineering review fees. Most projects will have review fees beyond
the application fees. The review fees shall be approved by the Drainage Board
and equal the invoice submitted by the reviewing agency. Each year the Drainage
Board may negotiate and approve the review rates. Fees shall be paid to the
Drainage Board in full before the Drainage Board approval letter is given out
and prior to additional project submittals/approvals. Review rates will be
posted on the Surveyor s Office website when approved.
(Ord. 2020-08, passed 2-25-2020; Ord. 2024-07, passed 3-26-2024)
§ 37.28 HEALTH BOARD UNIFORM SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Public health nursing.
      (1)   Personal health services.
Type of Fee Fees
Type of Fee                         Fees
Personal Health Services*
                                    Price based on VFC maximum allowable
Immunizations (state provided)      administration fee.
                                    (No charge if the patient is unable to
                                    pay)
Nursing services, and county-       Prices based on cost of supplies,
purchased immunizations, tests, and vaccines, and other necessary components
blood screens                       of service.
*   Exception will be given to patients who meet the financial hardship
policy adopted by the County Board of Health. The Health Department accepts
Medicaid, Medicare, and private insurance payments for these services. Cash,
check, and credit card are also accepted.
Other Services
Universal precautions training      $10 per person
Vaccination records                 $2 per copy
 
      (2)   Outbreak control. All communicable disease outbreak control
situations where it is necessary to immunize all persons at a place of business
to protect those individuals exposed or endangered by the possible communicable
disease and to protect the health of the general public, the business entity or
owners of the business shall pay for the cost of all vaccines, supplies, and
other necessary components of service received by all individuals at the place
of business.
   (B)   Vital record services.
Type of Vital Record Service Fees
Type of Vital Record Service                 Fees
Birth Records
Affidavit of amendment                       $15
Birth certificate (per copy)                 $15
Correction by notification                   $15
Genealogy search (per birth or death record) $5
Home birth registration                      $35
Paternity affidavits                         $25
Plastic birth certificate sleeve             $1
Death Records
Death certificate (per copy)                 $15
Amended death certificate (per copy)         $10
 
   (C)   Environmental health.
      (1)   Food establishments.
Type of Fee Fees
Type of Fee                                          Fees
Plan Review
Plan review                                          $150
Pre-opening inspections (for third and subsequent    $50 per inspection visit
visits)
Food Establishment Permits
Pre-packaged potentially hazardous foods only        $100 per year
Minimal food preparation                             $200 per year
Extensive handling of raw ingredients                $300 per year
Additional fee for late renewal                      $50 per application
Bed and breakfast establishment                      $75 per year
Farmers’ market vendor (no potentially hazardous   $25 per year at one
food)                                                location
                                                     (maximum $75 per year)
Farmer’s market vendor (with potentially hazardous $75 per year at one
food)                                                location
                                                     (maximum $225 per year)
Mobile retail food establishment with no food        $50 per unit per year
preparation
Mobile retail food establishment with food           $100 per unit per year
preparation
Pushcart with all food pre-packaged                  $25 per unit per year
Temporary food establishment                         $40 per event
Additional fee for late application                  $25 per application
Re-inspection
   A fee of $50 may be imposed for each additional visit or inspection
conducted by the Health Department due to previous inspection findings.
   A fee of $50 may be imposed for any additional visit or inspection
conducted by the Health Department as a result of a fire or other emergency in
a food establishment.
 
      (2)   On-site sewage disposal (septic) systems.
Type of Fee Fees
Type of Fee                                              Fees
Permits
Gravity trench system                                    $150
Pump assisted trench system                              $200
Sand mound                                               $250
Permanent sewage holding tank                            $250
Temporary sewage holding tank                            $50
System other than those listed above                     $250
Repair of a system component (i.e., pipe, tank, or pump) $50
Operating permit                                         $150
Re-inspection
   A fee of $50 may be imposed for each additional inspection that is
scheduled due to previous inspection findings or incomplete installation.
 
      (3)   Well protection. Valid one year from date of issue.
 
Type of Permit           Fees
New well and pump permit $45
Replacement pump permit  $20
Well repair              $20
 
      (4)   Solid waste.
 
Type of Permit                        Fees
Landfill operating permit (annually)  $30,000
Refuse processing facility (annually) $500
 
      (5)   Temporary campground.
 
Type of Fee                     Fees
Temporary campground inspection $50 per visit
 
      (6)   Pools.
 
Type of Fee Fees
Permits
Pool permit $200
-   Pool permits are valid from January 1 to December 31 of that year.
Additional inspections
   An additional fee of $50 may be imposed for each inspection that is
scheduled due to previous inspection findings.
 
      (7)   Body modifications.
 
Type of Fee                                 Fees
Fixed or mobile facility                    $50 per booth/station per year
Fixed issued after June 30 (to December 31) Half of annual fee
Temporary event coordinator plan review     $25 per artist station in plan
Temporary event artist fee                  $50 per artist
Late renewal fee                            $50
 
      (8)   Environmental lead investigations.
 
Type of Investigation                    Fees
Initial environmental lead investigation $282.85
Follow-up environmental lead             $101.32
investigation
   Exception will be given to patients who meet the financial hardship policy
adopted by the County Board of Health. The Health Department accepts Medicaid,
Medicare, and private insurance payments for these services. Cash, check, and
credit card are also accepted.
 
   (D)   Administration and enforcement. In the event a lawsuit is necessary to
collect the cost of fees, penalties or services under this section, the
individual or business entity found to be liable shall also pay for reasonable
attorney fees and cost of litigation to the county. Each of the foregoing fees
are non-refundable and shall be paid at the time the application for service is
made. Any failure to obtain a permit and/or payment of the fee shall be
considered a violation of this section. Any entity, private or commercial, who
is in violation of this section may be enjoined from any further and continuing
violation.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 5-9-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 6-28-2022; Ord. 2024-41,
passed 10-8-2024)
CHAPTER 38: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Local income tax rates
   
38.02   Gross income tax; homestead property
   
38.03   Delinquent property tax; authority
   
38.04   Excise surtax; wheel tax
   
38.05   Inventory tax
   
38.06   Innkeeper’s tax
   
38.07   Sales tax on motorized watercraft
   
38.08   Income tax special account balance duration
   
38.09   Payment system for property owners
Tax Abatement Procedure
   
38.20   Purpose
   
38.21   Definitions
   
38.22   Financial incentives
   
38.23   Office development
   
38.24   Mixed use development
   
38.25   Institutional development
   
38.26   Industrial development
   
38.27   Warehouse development
   
38.28   Personal property; new manufacturing equipment
   
38.29   County Council’s authority; enlarge real property standards
   
38.30   Agreement
   
38.31   Corporate citizenship
   
38.32   Applicant; information required
   
38.33   Statements of benefits; declaratory, confirmatory resolutions
   
38.34   Review by Tax Abatement Committee
   
38.35   County Council review; declaratory resolution
   
38.36   Confirmatory resolutions
   
38.37   Annual review of petitions; failure of petitioner
   
38.38   County Council reservation of rights
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 LOCAL INCOME TAX RATES.
   The local income tax rates proposed below will become effective on October
1, 2019, and will remain in effect until modified by ordinance of the County
Council. The rate imposed under I.C. 6-3.6-6-2.7 may not be in effect for more
than 22 years.
Allocation Rate Category Existing LIT Rate Proposed LIT Rate
Allocation Rate Category                   Existing LIT Rate Proposed LIT Rate
Certified shares (I.C. 6-3.6-6)            1%                1%
Correctional or rehabilitation facilities  0.20%             0.15%
(I.C. 6-3.6-6-2.7)
Economic development (I.C. 6-3.6-6)        0.25%             0.30%
Property tax relief rate (I.C. 6-3.6-5)    0.15%             0.15%
Public safety (I.C. 6-3.6-6)               0.10%             0.10%
Special purpose rate (I.C. 6-3.6- 7)       0%                0%
Total                                      1.70%             1.70%
 
(Council Ord. 2019-30, passed 8-28-2019; Council Ord. 2022-42, passed 8-23-
2022; Council Ord. 2024-30, passed 9-17-2024)
§ 38.02 GROSS INCOME TAX; HOMESTEAD PROPERTY.
   (A)   The County Council increases the County Adjusted Gross Income Tax rate
imposed upon the resident county taxpayers from 1% to 1.15%.
   (B)   The tax revenue generated by the increase shall be used pursuant to
I.C. 6-3.6-5-6 for the purpose of providing a uniform homestead credit
percentage.
(Council Ord. 2011-25, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 38.03 DELINQUENT PROPERTY TAX; AUTHORITY.
   The County Auditor and County Treasurer are hereby authorized to waive,
negotiate, or settle penalties that have accrued on delinquent property taxes
imposed by the county.
(Council Res. 2018-03, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 38.04 EXCISE SURTAX; WHEEL TAX.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Beginning January 1, 2015, and until further amended by ordinance,
all passenger cars, trucks of less than 11,000 pounds G.W., and motorcycles
registered in the county that are now subject to an excise tax shall also be
subject to an annual excise surtax of $25 to be paid with the registration of
said motor vehicle.
      (2)   Beginning January 1, 2015, and until further amended by ordinance,
all of the following ten classes of motor vehicles, registered in the county,
shall be subject to an annual wheel tax, as set out in the following schedule,
to be paid with the registration of said vehicles.
   (B)   Wheel tax schedule.
Vehicle Classification Annual Wheel Tax
Vehicle Classification Annual Wheel Tax
Buses                  $25
Motor-driven vehicles  $25
Motorcycles            $25
Passenger vehicles     $25
Recovery vehicles*     $25
Recovery vehicles**    $25
Recreational vehicles  $25
Semi-trailers          $25
Tractors               $25
Trailers               $25
Trucks                 $25
Trucks***              $25
Notes to Table
*   Minimum of 16,000 pounds
**   Over 16,000 pounds
***   Declared gross weight that does not exceed 11,000 pounds
 
   (C)   Exemptions. As provided by PL 10-Acts 1980, (I.C. 6-3.5-5-4), the
following motor vehicles are exempt from the annual wheel tax:
      (1)   Vehicles owned by the state, a state agency, or a political
subdivision;
      (2)   Buses owned and operated by a religious or non-profit youth
organization, and used to haul persons to religious service or for the benefit
of their members; and
      (3)   Vehicles subject to the annual excise surtax imposed under I.C. 6-
3.5-5-4.
   (D)   Distributions. Beginning January 1, 2015, all of the excise surtax and
wheel tax collected on motor vehicles registered in the county shall be
distributed, as provided in Pub. Law No. 10 of 1980, to the county, city and
town units by the County Auditor, and shall be used only to construct,
reconstruct, repair, or maintain streets, roads, and bridges under their
jurisdiction.
(Council Ord. 2012-18, passed 6-29-2012; Council Ord. 2015-03, passed 2-15-
2015)
§ 38.05 INVENTORY TAX.
   (A)   Purpose. Pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12-42(c), a deduction is hereby
authorized, and created, to apply to the assessed value of inventory located in
the county. The deduction shall be equal to 100% of the assessed value of
inventory located in the county for the appropriate year of assessment.
   (B)   Applicability. The deduction set forth above shall apply to inventory
assessed beginning in year 2004 and each year thereafter.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ASSESSED VALUE OF INVENTORY. The assessed value determined after the
application of any deductions or adjustments that apply by statute or rule to
the assessment of inventory, other than the deduction created in division (A)
above, as per I.C. 6-1.1-12-42(a).
      INVENTORY. The meaning set forth in I.C. 6-1.1-1-8.4.
(Council Ord. 2003-05, passed 12-30-2003)
§ 38.06 INNKEEPER’S TAX.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   A tax is hereby levied on every hotel, motel, or inn engaged in the
business of renting, or furnishing, for periods of less than 30 days, any room,
or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations located in the county.
      (2)   The tax does not apply to gross income received in a transaction in
which a person rents any room, or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations for a
period of 30 days or more.
      (3)   The tax shall be levied at the rate of 8% on the gross retail
income derived from lodging income only, and is in addition to the state gross
retail tax imposed under I.C. 6-2.5.
      (4)   The tax shall be reported on forms approved by the County
Treasurer, and shall be paid monthly to the County Treasurer not more than 20
days after the end of the month in which the tax is collected. The provisions
of I.C. 6-2.5 relating to rights, duties, liabilities, procedures, penalties,
definitions, and administration are applicable to the imposition and
administration of the tax imposed under I.C. 6-9-37-3 and this section, except
to the extent those provisions are in conflict, or inconsistent, with the
specific provisions of I.C. 6-9-37, or of this section, or the requirements of
the County Treasurer.
   (B)   Convention, Visitor, and Tourism Promotion Fund.
      (1)   The County Treasurer shall establish the Convention, Visitor, and
Tourism Promotion Fund (hereinafter “the Fund”), and shall deposit in such fund
all amounts received under this section, pursuant to I.C. 6-9-37.
      (2)   Not less often than quarterly, upon written request from the
Treasurer of the County Tourism Commission, the County Auditor shall issue a
warrant directing the County Treasurer to transfer money from the Convention,
Visitor, and Tourism Promotion Fund to the treasurer(s) of such entity, or
entities, having been designated to receive revenue for the purposes set out in
I.C. 6-9-37-4(c)(2), or to a designated, separate non-reverting account of such
entity, or entities, such monies transferred to be in the previously designated
ratio.
      (3)   The County Council shall, for the period from October 31 through
December 31, 2005, and for each calendar year thereafter, designate to the
Tourism Commission, for inclusion in its proposed budget, the entity, or
entities, which are to receive for that year, or part of a year, the one-half
of the innkeeper’s tax revenues in excess of 5% to be used for the purposes set
out in I.C. 6-9-37-4(c)(2). If more than one entity is to share such revenues,
the County Council shall designate the ratio of those shares. Beginning in
calendar year 2007, and for each subsequent year, the designation by the County
Council shall be made and communicated to the Tourism Commission no later than
May 31.
   (C)   Money collected.
      (1)   Monies collected pursuant to this section and deposited into the
Fund after October 31, 2005, and including interest attributable thereto, may
be expended only for those purposes set forth in I.C. 6-9-37-4(c).
      (2)   The Tourism Commission shall, not later than June 30 each year,
submit its proposed budget for the following calendar year to the County
Auditor for preparation for submission to the County Council for its review and
approval. No expenditure may be made by the Tourism Commission unless it is in
accordance with an appropriation made by the County Council in the manner
provided by law.
      (3)   Expenditure of funds in excess of the previous innkeeper’s tax rate
of 5% deposited in the year 2005 after October 31 may be made by an emergency
appropriation requested of, and approved by, the County Council.
(Council Ord. 2005-34, passed 8-25-2005; Council Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-7-2006)
§ 38.07 SALES TAX ON MOTORIZED WATERCRAFT.
   (A)   The state, through House Bill 1496, has required the County Treasurer
to collect sales tax, user fees, registration fees, and title fees on all
motorized watercraft that are titled through the County Treasurer’s Office
   (B)   The state requires the County Treasurer to collect the title fee of
$6, $2 of which remains with the county, and the balance of $4 is forwarded to
the state.
   (C)   The County Treasurer is directed to accept motorized watercraft title
fees in cash only, or to direct owners of motorized watercraft to secure their
titles from the Department of Natural Resources of the state.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 38.08 INCOME TAX SPECIAL ACCOUNT BALANCE DURATION.
   The County Council elects to reduce the required county income tax special
account balance from a six-month balance to a three-month balance.
(Council Ord. 1996-26, passed 6-4-1996)
§ 38.09 PAYMENT SYSTEM FOR PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The County Treasurer and the County Board of Commissioners desire to
initiate the following provisions to initiate a uniform and efficient payment
system for taxpayers to pay their real estate taxes, personal property taxes,
and mobile home taxes.
   (A)   Every tax payer shall include his, her, or their statement coupon with
his, her, or their payment.
   (B)   If one tax payer, title company, or mortgage holder owns or pays taxes
for more than ten real estate parcels, he, she, or it shall use the GovTech
Services provided by the County Treasurer.
   (C)   If one tax payer, title company, or mortgage holder owns or pays taxes
for more than ten pieces of personal property, he, she, or it shall use the
GovTech Services provided by the County Treasurer.
   (D)   If one tax payer, title company, or mortgage holder owns or pays taxes
for more than ten mobile homes, he, she, or it shall use the GovTech Services
provided by the County Treasurer.
   (E)   Each tax payer, title company, or mortgage holder shall include a copy
of each current year tax coupon for each parcel, personal property, and mobile
home for which he, she, or it is paying real estate taxes.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 3-23-2021)
TAX ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
§ 38.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The County Council hereby finds that there is a need to develop tax
abatement procedures, which set forth the philosophy, regulations, procedures,
and general standards which the county believes are necessary to encourage
economic development within the county limits.
   (B)   The County Council therefore declares that the following tax abatement
procedures found in this subchapter and general standards shall govern tax
abatement requests filed for consideration with the county.
   (C)   The following tax abatement procedures and general standards are
promulgated pursuant to the Home Rule powers vested in the county pursuant to
I.C. 36-1-3-1 et seq. and the property tax abatement statutes as set forth in
I.C. 6-1.1-12.1 et seq. All persons who desire to seek real or personal
property tax abatement consideration have the duty to comply with the
applicable provisions set forth in this subchapter, as well as all state law
requirements. However, those persons who petition pursuant to §
38.32 must only comply with the applicable state law provisions, and the
requirements of annual review provided for herein in §
38.37(A).
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.21 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESIGNATING BODY. The County Council.
      ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREA (ERA). An area which is within the limits of
the county which has become undesirable, or impossible, for normal development
and occupancy because of a lack of development, cessation of growth,
deterioration of improvements, or character of occupancy, age, obsolescence,
substandard buildings, or other factors which have impaired values or prevent a
normal development of property or use of property. The term ECONOMIC
REVITALIZATION AREA (ERA) shall also include any area where a facility, or a
group of facilities, that is technologically, economically, or energy obsolete
is located, and where the obsolescence may lead to a decline in employment and
tax revenues.
      HARD DOLLAR COSTS. Expenses directly related to the proposed new
construction or rehabilitation, excluding costs of financing, architect,
engineering, and attorney fees. For the purposes of this subchapter, the HARD
DOLLAR COST is that cost certified on the Statement of Benefits (Form SB-1),
Section 4, “Net Estimated Values Upon Completion of Project”.
      INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. Includes those definitions set forth in major
groups 20 through 39 of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual (SIC),
published by the United States Office of Management and Budget, which manual is
hereby incorporated by reference, with copies being maintained in the Office of
the Executive Director of the County Economic Development Partnership.
      INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT. The development of any educational facilities.
      MIXED USE. Any mix of two or more of the following uses only: office,
institutional, or industrial.
      NEW MANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT. Tangible personal property which:
         (a)   Is installed during the period beginning March 1, 1983, and
ending December 31, 1993, in an area that is declared an Economic
Revitalization Area after February 28, 1983, in which a deduction for tangible
personal property is allowed;
         (b)   Is used in the direct production, manufacture, fabrication,
assembly extraction, mining, processing, refining, or finishing of other
tangible personal property; and
         (c)   Was acquired by its owner for use as described in division (B)
above, and was never before used by its owner for any purpose in the state.
      PROPERTY. A building or structure, but shall not include land.
      REDEVELOPMENT. The construction of new structures in Economic
Revitalization Areas, either:
         (a)   On unimproved real estate; or
         (b)   On real estate upon which a prior existing structure is
demolished to allow for a new construction.
      REHABILITATION. The remodeling, repair, or betterment of property in any
manner, or any enlargement of extension of property.
      TAX ABATEMENT COMMITTEE. 
         (a)   The Committee established pursuant to this subchapter to review
petitions for tax abatement consisting of five members as follows:
            1.   The Executive Director of the County Economic Development
Partnership;
            2.   A member of the County Area Plan Commission, as designated by
the Plan Commission;
            3.   A member of the County Redevelopment Commission, as designated
by the Redevelopment Commission;
            4.   A member of the County Economic Development Commission, as
designated by the Economic Development Commission; and
            5.   A Superintendent of Schools from one of the six school
districts within the county as designated by the Superintendents.
         (b)   All members shall serve on such committee until they resign, or
are replaced with a successor designated by the appropriate commission or
organization.
      WAREHOUSE DEVELOPMENT. Includes those definitions set forth in major
groups 42, 50, and 51 of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual (SIC),
published by the United States Office of Management and Budget, which manual is
hereby incorporated by reference with copies being maintained in the Office of
the Executive Director of the County Economic Development Partnership.
   (B)   Any terms not specifically defined in this section shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.22 FINANCIAL INCENTIVES.
   (A)   It is the policy of the county not to offer financial incentives for
economic development projects that involve the relocation of a business from
another state jurisdiction to the county.
   (B)   The county’s decision to offer financial incentives to relocate an
economic development project from another state jurisdiction to the county will
be based on the following:
      (1)   A letter, or other written documentation, from the jurisdiction
where the business is currently located that it has exhausted all resources
available to keep the business in such jurisdiction;
      (2)   The business has exhausted its efforts to reach an agreement with
the jurisdiction in which it is located, and will put into written
certification that said business is no longer considering a location in said
jurisdiction; and/or
      (3)   The business has provided the county with a written financial
incentive package from another state to relocate to said state, and such
relocation of said business would be detrimental to the state in terms of the
loss of capital investment and/or jobs.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.23 OFFICE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Office development standards. The County Council believes that the
following tax abatement general standards in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3)
below have a reasonable relationship to the development objectives of office
developments within the county, and would warrant tax abatement consideration
as set forth herein.
      (1)   Three-year general standards.
         (a)   New construction. Proposed office developments which incorporate
new construction of a hard dollar cost of not less than $450,000 may be
considered for three-year real property tax abatement.
         (b)   Rehabilitation. Proposed rehabilitation of existing structures
located within the county for office development, and which propose not less
than $150,000 in hard dollar cost of rehabilitation, may be considered for
three-year real property tax abatement.
      (2)   Six-year general standards.
         (a)   New construction. Proposed office developments which incorporate
new construction of a hard dollar cost of not less than $900,000 may be
considered for six-year real property tax abatement.
         (b)   Rehabilitation. Proposed rehabilitation of existing structures
located within the county for office development, and which propose a hard
dollar cost of not less than $300,000 for rehabilitation, may be considered for
six-year real property tax abatement.
      (3)   Ten-year general standards.
         (a)   New construction. Proposed office developments which incorporate
new construction of a hard dollar cost of not less than $1,500,000 may be
considered for ten-year real property tax abatement.
         (b)   Rehabilitation. Proposed rehabilitation of existing structures
located within the county for office development, and which propose a hard
dollar cost of not less than $600,000 for rehabilitation, may be considered for
ten-year real property tax abatement.
   (B)   Compliance with state law. All applicants seeking real property tax
abatement consideration under this section must also comply with all applicable
regulations set forth in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2 et seq.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.24 MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Mixed use development standards. The County Council believes that the
following tax abatement general standards in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3)
below have a reasonable relationship to the development objectives of mixed use
developments within the county, and would warrant tax abatement consideration
as set forth herein.
      (1)   Three-year general standards.
         (a)   New construction. Proposed mixed use developments which
incorporate a hard dollar construction cost of not less than $450,000 may be
considered for three-year real property tax abatement.
         (b)   Rehabilitation. Proposed rehabilitation of existing structures
located within the county, and which propose a hard dollar cost of not less
than $150,000 for rehabilitation, may be considered for three-year real
property tax abatement.
      (2)   Six-year general standards.
         (a)   New construction. Proposed mixed use developments which
incorporate a hard dollar construction cost of not less than $900,000 may be
considered for six-year real property tax abatement.
         (b)   Rehabilitation. Proposed rehabilitation of existing structures
located within the county for mixed use development, and which propose a hard
dollar cost of not less than $300,000 for rehabilitation, may be considered for
six-year real property tax abatement.
      (3)   Ten-year general standards.
         (a)   New construction. Proposed mixed use developments which
incorporate a hard dollar construction cost of not less than $1,500,000 for new
construction may be considered for ten-year real property tax abatement.
         (b)   Rehabilitation. Proposed rehabilitation of existing structures
located within the county for mixed use development, and which propose a hard
dollar cost of not less than $600,000 for rehabilitation, may be considered for
ten-year real property tax abatement.
   (B)   Compliance with state law. All applicants seeking real property tax
abatement consideration under this section must comply with all applicable
regulations set forth in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.25 INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Institutional development standards. The County Council believes that
the following general standard in division (B) below has a reasonable
relationship to the development objectives for institutional development within
the county, and would warrant tax abatement consideration as set forth herein.
   (B)   Three-year general standards; new construction. Proposed new
construction of institutional developments which are to be located within the
county may be considered for three-year real property tax abatement.
   (C)   Compliance with state law. All applicants seeking real property tax
abatement consideration under this section must also comply with all applicable
regulations set forth in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2 et seq.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.26 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Industrial development standards. The County Council believes that the
following general standards in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) below have a
reasonable relationship to the development objectives for industrial
development within the county, and would warrant tax abatement consideration as
set forth herein.
      (1)   Three-year general standards; new construction. Proposed industrial
developments which incorporate a new construction hard dollar cost of not less
than $200,000 may be considered for three-year real property tax abatement.
      (2)   Six-year general standards; new construction. Proposed industrial
developments which incorporate a new construction hard dollar cost of not less
than $400,000 may be considered for six-year real property tax abatement.
      (3)   Ten-year general standards; new construction. Proposed industrial
developments which incorporate a new construction hard dollar cost of not less
than $600,000 may be considered for ten-year real property abatement.
   (B)   Compliance with state law. All applicants seeking real property tax
abatement consideration under this section must comply with all applicable
regulations set forth in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.27 WAREHOUSE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Warehouse development standards. The County Council believes that the
following general standards in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) below have a
reasonable relationship to the development objectives for warehouse development
within the county, and would warrant tax abatement consideration as set forth
herein.
      (1)   Three-year general standards; new construction and rehabilitation.
Proposed warehouse development of new construction, or rehabilitation, with a
hard dollar cost of not less than $750,000 may be considered for three-year
real property tax abatement.
      (2)   Six-year general standards; new construction and rehabilitation.
Proposed warehouse development of new construction, or rehabilitation, with a
hard dollar cost of not less than $1,500,000 may be considered for six-year
real property tax abatement.
      (3)   Ten-year general standards; new construction and rehabilitation.
Proposed warehouse development of new construction, or rehabilitation, with a
hard dollar cost of not less than $3,000,000 may be considered for ten-year
real property tax abatement.
   (B)   Compliance with state law. All applicants seeking real property tax
abatement consideration under this section must also comply with all applicable
retaliations set forth in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.28 PERSONAL PROPERTY; NEW MANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Personal property, new manufacturing equipment standards. The County
Council believes that the following general standards in division (B) below
have a reasonable relationship to the development objectives of promoting the
installation of new manufacturing equipment within the county, and would
warrant tax abatement consideration as set forth herein.
   (B)   Five- and ten-year general standards.
      (1)   All applicant seeking a five- or ten-year personal property tax
abatement must comply with all provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-4.5, and the
provisions of §§
38.29 and
38.32 that are applicable.
      (2)   The County Council may grant a five- or ten-year personal property
tax abatement based on, but not limited to, the following factors:
         (a)   Useful life of machinery;
         (b)   Assessed value of machinery being replaced;
         (c)   Impact of abatement on existing tax increment financing
district;
         (d)   Aggregate capital investment in buildings and machinery; and
         (e)   Number of jobs created.
   (C)   Verification of equipment. Applicants seeking personal property tax
abatement must verify that the new manufacturing equipment will be used in
conjunction with uses within major groups 20 through 39 or 42 of the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual, as published by the United States Office of
Management and Budget.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.29 COUNTY COUNCIL’S AUTHORITY; ENLARGE REAL PROPERTY STANDARDS.
   (A)   The County Council believes that, pursuant to its Home Rule authority
set forth in I.C. 36-1-3-1 et seq., and the authority granted to it under I.C.
6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq., it has the authority to declare areas within the county
as Economic Revitalization Areas (ERA) which do not meet the general standards
for real property tax abatement set forth in §§
38.23 through
38.27.
   (B)   The County Council therefore declares that individuals who desire to
petition for real property tax abatement which do not meet the general
standards set forth herein, but nevertheless have a business, or business
development, that is unique in the total number of jobs created, salary levels
of the jobs, total investment in building and equipment, or similar
characteristics, may do so by filing proper petitions and forms of declaratory
and confirmatory resolutions with the County Auditor. Such forms shall set
forth, in detail, the reasons why they believe their circumstances create a
unique opportunity for the county, and that they should be granted such
abatement and declared an ERA.
   (C)   The Tax Abatement Committee, as the preliminary review body, shall
review such petitions, and declaratory and confirmatory resolutions, on a
project-by-project basis, and make its report to the County Council, which
shall have the sole, absolute authority as the designating body to declare an
area to be an Economic Revitalization Area for tax abatement purposes.
   (D)   The Tax Abatement Committee, in its report, and the County Council, in
its decision, shall make specific findings supporting their conclusion that
there is, or is not, a rational basis for the determination that the area
should be declared an Economic Revitalization Area.
   (E)   Real property tax abatement granted under this section shall be
limited to the specific amount of years determined by the County Council to be
appropriate under the circumstances. The County Council shall have the sole,
and absolute, discretion to determine the specific amount of years of tax
abatement.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.30 AGREEMENT.
   The County Council shall require that all applicants for Economic
Revitalization Area designation enter into an agreement with the County Council
following the adoption of a declaratory resolution, and prior to the public
hearing on the Economic Revitalization Area designation request. The memorandum
of agreement shall contain the investment levels, job creation and/or retention
levels, and wage rates the applicant has committed to the county in order to
receive consideration for Economic Revitalization Area designation. A final
public hearing on the Economic Revitalization Area designation request shall
not be held unless the memorandum of agreement has been completed.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.31 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP.
   Applicants receiving tax abatements from the County Council are encouraged
to contribute to the development of the overall county community through
participation in professional, volunteer service and not-for-profit
organizations.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.32 APPLICANT; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Owners must file. Owners of real property or new manufacturing
equipment located within the county may petition the County Council on forms
provided by the County Auditor for real, or personal, property tax abatement
consideration. All information and attachments required by the designation
application must be completed and filed with the County Auditor together with a
filing fee of $250 to cover processing and administrative costs.
   (B)   Petition information. Property owners petitioning for tax abatement
shall provide the following information on the petition to enable the County
Council to consider their request:
      (1)   The name(s) and address(es) of the real property owner(s), and
personal property owner(s) in case of the request for personal property tax
abatement, and any other person(s) leasing, intending to lease, or having an
option to purchase such property, and a brief description of the business;
      (2)   If the business organization is publicly held, the name of the
corporate parent and the name under which the corporation is filed with the
Securities Exchange Commission;
      (3)   The legal description and commonly known address of the real
property for which real property abatement is being petitioned; or the legal
description and commonly known address of the facility at which the new
manufacturing equipment, for which tangible personal property tax abatement is
being petitioned, will be located. In addition, the petition must include the
complete parcel number (14 characters) for each parcel to be designated an
Economic Revitalization Area (ERA). Said parcel number can be determined in the
real estate records of the office of the County Auditor;
      (4)   A map and/or plat describing the area where tax abatement is being
requested;
      (5)   The current assessed valuation of the real property improvement
before rehabilitation, redevelopment, economic revitalization, or improvement;
or the current assessed valuation of the tangible personal property to be
replaced by the new manufacturing equipment;
      (6)   A description of the proposed project (whether rehabilitation, new
construction, or installation of new manufacturing equipment), including
information about physical improvements to be made, or the new manufacturing
equipment to be installed, an estimate of the cost of the project, the amount
of land to be used, the proposed use of the improvements, and a general
statement as to the value of the project to the business;
      (7)   An estimate of the number of new permanent jobs to be created by
the project within one year, a statement of the current number of permanent and
part-time jobs at the location and impact on those current jobs to be caused by
the project, and the projected annual salaries for each such position to be
created;
      (8)   Verification that no building permit has been issued for
construction on the property for the improvement proposed, or verification that
the new manufacturing equipment has not been installed;
      (9)   The Standard Industrial Classification Manual major group, within
which the proposed project would be classified by number and description;
      (10)   The Internal Revenue Service’s Code of Principal Business Activity
by which the proposed project would be classified, by number and description;
      (11)   A description of actual or anticipated public financing for the
project;
      (12)   For real property tax abatement, a description of how the property
in question has become undesirable for, or impossible of, normal development
and occupancy because of lack of development, cessation of growth,
deterioration of improvements, or character of occupancy, age, obsolescence,
substandard buildings, or other factors which have impaired values and prevent
a normal development of the property or property use;
      (13)   For personal property tax abatement, a description of why the
facility, or group of facilities, to be replaced are technologically,
economically, or energy obsolete, whereby the obsolescence may lead to a
decline in employment and tax revenues, together with a verification that the
new manufacturing equipment will be used in the direct production, manufacture,
fabrication, assembly, extraction, mining, processing, refining, or refinishing
of other tangible personal property, and that the new manufacturing equipment
was never before used by its owner for any purpose in the state;
      (14)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person to contact
regarding notice of County Council meetings and public hearings concerning the
petition;
      (15)   The real, and personal, property taxes paid at the location during
the previous five years, whether paid by the current owner or a previous owner;
and
      (16)   An estimate of the after-rehabilitation market value of the real
property, or an estimate of the market value of the new manufacturing equipment
after installation.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.33 STATEMENT OF BENEFITS; DECLARATORY, CONFIRMATORY RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the completed petition, filing fee, and related
documents required by §
38.32, the owners of real property, or new manufacturing equipment, must file a
completed statement of benefits form at the time of filing the petition.
   (B)   Proposed forms of declaratory and confirmatory resolutions are also
required of the owner at time of filing said petition.
   (C)   The provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-3 shall be followed by the
designating body when reviewing such documents required by this section.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.34 REVIEW BY TAX ABATEMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a completed tax abatement petition, including all
attachments, filing fee, statement of benefits form, and the declaratory and
confirmatory resolutions by the owner, the County Auditor shall review said
documents and make a determination that the application is complete or not
complete.
      (1)   If the application or information is incomplete, the County Auditor
shall contact the applicant and advise the applicant of the deficiencies in the
application.
      (2)   If the application and information is complete, the application
shall be submitted to the County Tax Abatement Committee for review. Said
review shall be for informational purposes only, and shall not be binding on
the designating body.
   (B)   The County Tax Abatement Committee shall review the petition,
statement of benefits, and all attachments thereto. It shall also have the
authority to request additional information from the petitioner which is
relevant to the petition and statement of benefits.
   (C)   (1)   No later than 15 working days from the receipt of said documents
from the County Auditor, the County Tax Abatement Committee shall prepare a
written report setting forth its advisory findings.
      (2)   Said report shall be provided to the County Council members, the
County Auditor, and the petitioner.
   (D)   Said report shall address, but not be limited to addressing, the
following:
      (1)   Whether all required information was originally submitted by the
petitioner. In the event that additional information was requested of the
petitioner, the report shall address such requests and the response received
from the petitioner;
      (2)   Whether the information contained in the petition and statement of
benefits indicates that the requirements of this subchapter are met by the
project as described in the petition;
      (3)   Whether zoning requirements have been met, and, if not, the zoning
issues to be resolved;
      (4)   Whether the project is located in a tax allocation area, as defined
in I.C. 36-7-14-39, and if so, whether the County Redevelopment Commission has
adopted a resolution approving the application. A copy of such a resolution, if
required, shall be attached to the report;
      (5)   If additional terms of tax abatement have been proposed, a copy of
the proposed agreement shall be attached to the report; and/or
      (6)   Whether, in the Tax Abatement Committee’s opinion, a deduction
should be allowed based on the following:
         (a)   Whether the estimate of the value of the redevelopment or
rehabilitation is reasonable for projects of this nature;
         (b)   Whether the estimate of the number of individuals who will be
employed, or whose employment will be retained, can be reasonably expected to
result from the proposed described redevelopment or rehabilitation;
         (c)   Whether the estimate of the annual salaries of those individuals
who will be employed, or whose employment will be retained, can be reasonably
expected to result from the proposed described redevelopment or rehabilitation;
and
         (d)   Whether any other benefits about which information was requested
are benefits that can be reasonably expected to result from the proposed
described redevelopment or rehabilitation.
   (E)   The Committee’s report shall also have attached to it a copy of the
petition and statement of benefits form, and all attachments thereto.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.35 COUNTY COUNCIL REVIEW; DECLARATORY RESOLUTION.
   (A)   The County Council shall hold a public hearing on the petitioner’s
declaratory resolution pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2.5.
   (B)   The petitioner, and/or his or her representative, shall be required to
attend the public hearing and present evidence to the County Council as to why
he or she believes he or she qualifies for the requested abatement.
   (C)   If the County Council finds that the property qualifies as an Economic
Revitalization Area under the terms of this section and I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1(1),
the County Council may adopt a resolution declaring the property as an Economic
Revitalization Area for purposes of tax abatement. Said resolution shall
specify whether the abatement is for real property tax deduction or for
personal property tax deduction, the length of time during which the area shall
be so designated, and the general boundaries of the area by describing its
location in relation to public ways. If the abatement is for real property
taxes, the County Council shall specify whether the abatement is for three,
six, or ten years. Upon the adoption of the declaratory resolution, the County
Auditor shall file the resolution with the County Assessor, together with
supporting data required by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2.5.
   (D)   If the area is located within an allocation area as defined in I.C.
36-7-14-39 as declared by the County Redevelopment Commission, the County
Council shall not adopt a declaratory resolution declaring an area to be an
Economic Revitalization Area for the purposes of either real property tax
deduction or personal property tax deduction if the Commission has not adopted
a resolution approving the petition.
   (E)   Upon adoption of the declaratory resolution, the County Auditor shall
cause notice of the adoption to be published pursuant to I.C. 5-3-1, and shall
include in the notice information about the adoption of the declaratory
resolution, the substance of the resolution that a description of the affected
area is available and can be inspected in the County Assessor’s Office, the
date when the County Council will receive and hear all remonstrances and
objections from interested persons, and any other information required by I.C.
6-1.1-12.1-2.5.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.36 CONFIRMATORY RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   Following the legal publication and on the date published in the legal
notice, a public hearing on the confirmatory resolution shall be held by the
County Council. The petitioner, and/or his or her representative, shall be
present and shall be required to present evidence why he or she believes the
tax abatement requested should be granted.
      (1)   At which time, the County Council shall receive and hear all
remonstrances and objections from interested persons pertaining to the petition
At the public hearing, the County Council shall determine whether the petition
complies with this subchapter and with I.C. 6-1.1-12.1 et seq., and shall
consider all pertinent requirements for Economic Revitalization Areas prior to
taking final action determining whether the petition meets qualifications for
an Economic Revitalization Area and confirming, modifying and confirming, or
rescinding the declaratory resolution.
      (2)   The determination of the County Council is final except that an
appeal may be taken and heard as provided by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(d) and (e).
   (B)   (1)   The County Council must make a determination as to whether the
deductions shall be allowed, and make specific findings pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1-3.
      (2)   The County Council must further comply with I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-4.5,
and make specific finding thereto when considering personal property tax
abatement requests.
   (C)   In declaring an area an Economic Revitalization Area (ERA), the
designating body may:
      (1)   Limit the time period to a certain number of calendar years during
which the area shall be so designated;
      (2)   Limit the type of deductions that will be allowed within the
Economic Revitalization Area to either the deduction allowed under I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1-3, or the deduction allowed under I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-4.5;
      (3)   Limit the dollar amount of the deduction that will be allowed with
respect to new manufacturing equipment if a deduction had not been filed before
July 1, 1987 for that equipment;
      (4)   Limit the dollar amount of the deduction that will be allowed with
respect to redevelopment and rehabilitation occurring in areas that are
designated as Economic Revitalization Areas on, or after, September 1, 1988; or
      (5)   Impose reasonable conditions related to the purpose of state law,
or the general standards adopted herein for allowing the deduction for the
redevelopment or rehabilitation of the property, or the installation of new
manufacturing equipment.
   (D)   To exercise one or more of the described powers in divisions (C)(1)
through (C)(5) above, the County Council must include this fact in the
resolutions adopted.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.37 ANNUAL REVIEW OF PETITIONS; FAILURE OF PETITIONER.
   (A)   Annual review of petitions by County Council.
      (1)   All property owners who receive approval of their real and/or
personal property tax abatement requests as a result of the County Council’s
action under this section shall be required to appear before the County
Council. Such appearances shall take place at a County Council meeting
following the petitioner’s filing of the first certified declaration
application with the County Auditor, required by the State Board of Tax
Commissioners, pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5.
      (2)   Additionally, the petitioner shall file with the County Council an
annual report that shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   Completed compliance with the statement of benefits form;
         (b)   The name and address of the person(s) filing the report;
         (c)   The amount of real and/or personal property taxes paid for the
property during the year before the property was declared as an Economic
Revitalization Area, and during the most recent tax year; and
         (d)   The current number of part-time and full-time jobs, specifying
whether permanent or temporary, and the number of such jobs as of the end of
the year immediately prior to receiving tax abatement.
      (3)   A property owner who fails to file an annual report on, or before,
March 1 may be subject to revocation of his or her tax abatement pursuant to
the passage of this section.
      (4)   The County Council shall review the material presented by the
petitioner in comparison to the information published by the County Auditor, as
required by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-8.
      (5)   The County Council shall specifically advise each property owner,
in writing, as to whether subsequent appearances before the County Council
shall be necessary. If such additional appearances are not required, the
property owner shall be duly advised that his or her future annual reports may
be mailed. Failure to mail such completed reports may result in revocation of
the tax abatement by the County Council.
   (B)   Failure of petitioner; revocation of tax abatement.
      (1)   The county believes that the granting of a request for real and/or
personal property tax abatement under the terms and conditions of this
subchapter results in a contractual arrangement between the county and the
property owner granted abatement.
      (2)   Therefore, a petitioner who fails to achieve the estimates set
forth in his or her original petition for tax abatement consideration and his
or her statement of benefits may have his or her tax abatement revoked by the
County Council.
      (3)   A petitioner who fails to file his or her annual report and meet
with the County Council, as required herein, may have the tax abatement revoked
by the County Council.
      (4)   Petitioners who comply with the annual report and meeting
requirements, but fail to provide evidence as to why they have not achieved the
estimates set forth in their documents used by the County Council when granting
the abatement, may have the tax abatement revoked by the County Council.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 38.38 COUNTY COUNCIL RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be considered mandatory upon the County
Council to grant a petition of abatement. The County Council expressly reserves
the right to accept or reject any petition.
(Council Ord. 97-37, passed 10-7-1997)
CHAPTER 39: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICES
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Grievance procedure; accessible design
   
39.02   National Flood Insurance Program adoption
   
39.03   Infrastructure Development Zone
   
39.04   Public records requests policy
General Employee Policies
   
39.15   Control standards, materiality threshold
   
39.16   Telephone policy; personal responsibility
   
39.17   Vehicle policy
   
39.18   Smoking policy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE; ACCESSIBLE DESIGN.
   (A)   Grievance procedure. The County Grievance Procedure, under the
Americans with Disabilities Act, is adopted as the grievance procedure for
addressing complaints alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in the
provision of services, activities, programs, or benefits by the county.
   (B)   Accessible design.
      (1)   Title II of the ADA recommends that municipalities adopt the
Americans with Disabilities Guidelines for Pedestrian Facilities in the Public
Right-of-Way that provide accessibility, through proposed structural
modifications, to remove accessibility barriers.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts the 2010 Americans with
Disabilities (ADA) Standards for Accessible Design, and the 2011 Guidelines for
Pedestrian Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way.
(Res. 11-08, passed 12-13-2011; Res. 11-09, passed 12-13-2011)
§ 39.02 NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM ADOPTION.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby affirm and reassert its
intent to fully comply with all minimum standards of the NFIP, and to enforce
strict compliance with its ordinance regulating development in special flood
hazard areas.
   (B)   The Director of the Planning and Building Department, and all county
personnel, are directed to adhere strictly to the procedures and substantive
regulations pertaining to areas of special flood hazard within the county
limits, and to consult, as necessary, with the County Attorney with respect to
issues of appropriate enforcement.
(Res. passed - -)
§ 39.03 INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT ZONE.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-12.5-4, the County Board of
Commissioners shall establish an Infrastructure Development Zone.
   (B)   The Infrastructure Development Zone shall incorporate all of the
unincorporated areas in the county.
   (C)   The Infrastructure Development Zone shall provide broadband services
to the county residents residing in the Infrastructure Development Zone.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 39.04 PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS POLICY.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-3, the form attached to Ordinance 2023-17 as
Exhibit “A,” which may be amended from time to time by the county, must be
fully completed by all individuals or entities requesting access to public
records from the county pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 15-4-3-3, the county shall require all individuals or
entities requesting access to public records pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3 et seq. to
make copies of the records in person, on the county’s equipment. When a request
for access to public records is granted, the county will designate the
appropriate location where the requester will be able to access and/or make
copies of responsive records. The appropriate location will be selected
pursuant to the county department in control of the records at issue. If the
county lacks the appropriate equipment for copying the responsive records, the
requester may use his or her or its own equipment to make copies, in person at
the location designated by the county. The county further reserves the right,
at its sole discretion, to utilize email and/or fax to fulfill small requests
for public records available electronically.
(Ord. 2023-17, passed 5-23-2023)
GENERAL EMPLOYEE POLICIES
§ 39.15 CONTROL STANDARDS, MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   County government.
      (1)   The acceptable minimum level of internal control standards and
procedures developed under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) by the SBOA contained in the
Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions manual
are hereby adopted by the county, and that county personnel receive training
concerning the internal control standards and procedures hereby adopted.
      (2)   The county establishes the following materiality policy under I.C.
5-11-1-10, 5-11-1-21, and 5-11-1-27.
         (a)   MATERIALITY in the county government is defined as $5,000 per
occurrence. That is, if one occurrence of a loss or shortage, or other
irregularity, is equal to, or greater than, $5,000 it must be reported to the
State Board of Accounts.
         (b)   The MATERIALITY definition is not limited to defalcations or
suspicious activity involving only cash or cash transactions. If supplies,
equipment, or other fixed assets belonging to the county are suspected of being
misappropriated or stolen, or used in a manner not authorized by county
officials, and the value of those supplies, equipment, or fixed assets are
approximately $5,000, that misuse, or series of misuse, should be reported.
That is not to say that if a loss or shortage is less than $5,000 it should be
ignored.
         (c)   If there is a series of events within the same office or
department that appears to be a structuring event to defraud, or
misappropriate, county funds or property, that event, or series of events,
should be reported.
      (3)   All erroneous or irregular material variances, losses, shortages,
or thefts of political subdivision funds or property shall be reported
immediately to the State Board of Accounts. For all material variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts, the State Board of Accounts shall:
         (a)   Determine the amount of funds involved and report the amount to
the appropriate government and law enforcement officials;
         (b)   Determine the internal control weakness that contributed to, or
caused, the condition; and
         (c)   Make written recommendations to the appropriate legislative body
or appropriate official overseeing the internal control system addressing:
            1. The method of correcting the condition; and
            2.   The necessary internal control policies and internal control
procedures that must be modified to prevent a recurrence of the condition.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27(1), if any county employee knows, or
suspects, that other county employees are engaged in fiscal misconduct, it is
his or her responsibility to immediately notify his or her supervisor or the
Board of Commissioners, or if the supervisor or a Board member is involved the
County Attorney, or if the employee has concerns about informing the County
Attorney, then the County Auditor and Prosecuting Attorney are to be contacted.
   (B)   Regional Sewer District.
      (1)   The acceptable minimum level of internal control standards and
procedures developed under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) by the SBOA contained in the
Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions manual
are hereby adopted by the County Regional Sewer Board, and that the Regional
Sewer personnel receive training concerning the internal control standards and
procedures hereby adopted.
      (2)   The County Regional Sewer Board establishes the following
materiality policy under I.C. 5-11-1-10, 5-11-1-21, and 5-11-1-27.
         (a)   MATERIALITY in the County Regional Sewer District, is defined as
$5,000 per occurrence. That is, if one occurrence of a loss or shortage, or
other irregularity, is equal to, or greater than, $5,000 it must be reported to
the State Board of Accounts.
         (b)   The MATERIALITY definition is not limited to defalcations or
suspicious activity involving only cash or cash transactions. If supplies,
equipment, or other fixed assets belonging to the District are suspected of
being misappropriated or stolen, or used in a manner not authorized by the
Regional Sewer Board, and the value of those supplies, equipment, or fixed
assets are approximately $5,000, that misuse, or series of misuse, should be
reported. That is not to say that if a loss or shortage is less than $5,000 it
should be ignored.
         (c)   If there is a series of events within the same office or
department that appears to be a structuring event to defraud, or
misappropriate, District funds or property, that event, or series of events,
should be reported.
      (3)   All erroneous or irregular material variances, losses, shortages,
or thefts of political subdivision funds or property shall be reported
immediately to the State Board of Accounts. For all material variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts, the State Board of Accounts shall:
         (a)   Determine the amount of funds involved, and report the amount to
the appropriate government and law enforcement officials;
         (b)   Determine the internal control weakness that contributed to, or
caused, the condition; and
         (c)   Make written recommendations to the appropriate legislative body
or appropriate official overseeing the internal control system addressing:
            1.   The method of correcting the condition; and
            2.   The necessary internal control policies and internal control
procedures that must be modified to prevent a recurrence of the condition.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27(1), if any Regional Sewer District
employee knows, or suspects, that other District employees are engaged in
fiscal misconduct, it is his or her responsibility to immediately notify his or
her supervisor or the Regional Sewer Board, or the Board of Commissioners, or
if the supervisor or a Regional Sewer Board or Board member is involved, the
County Attorney, or if the employee has concerns about informing the County
Attorney, then the County Auditor and Prosecuting Attorney are to be contacted.
(Ord. 2016-36, passed 11-22-2016; Ord. 2019-46, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 39.16 TELEPHONE POLICY; PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Personal cellular phones.
      (1)   While at work, county employees are expected to exercise the same
discretion using personal cellular phones as is expected for the use of county
land-line and county-paid cell phones. Excessive personal calls during the
workday, regardless of the phone used, can interfere with employee productivity
and be distracting to others. A reasonable standard is to limit personal calls
during work time to only those that are necessary to handle an emergency, or
similar situation. Employees are therefore asked to make any other personal
calls on non-work time, and ensure that friends and family members are aware of
the county’s policy.
      (2)   Employees should take reasonable precautions to prevent damage to,
or loss of, cell phones. An employee who is issued a county cell phone may be
required to pay for any lost phone depending on the replacement policy of the
cellular provider. The county shall not be liable for the damage, theft, or
loss of personal cellular phones brought into the workplace.
   (B)   County-provided cellular phones.
      (1)   County employees may be issued a county-paid cell phone with the
express written consent of their respective department head for legitimate and
necessary work purposes. Employees using a county-paid cell phone will be those
employees who do a majority of their work away from an office where access to a
land-line is not practical. Department heads are exempt from this requirement.
      (2)   Personal calls, emails, text messages, and Internet usage made, or
received, on a county-paid cell phone should be of a minimal nature, and only
for necessary reasons.
      (3)   County employees in possession of company equipment, such as cell
phones, are expected to protect the equipment from loss, damage, or theft.
Employees who are issued a county-paid cell phone shall pay for its replacement
(and any related peripheral equipment) regardless of the nature of the loss
(lost, stolen, damaged, and the like), unless the phone and/or equipment can be
replaced under warranty. A replacement phone and/or peripheral equipment shall
not be ordered until the employee has paid for such phone and/or equipment.
      (4)   The county shall only provide the phone and standard peripheral
equipment. Items such as Bluetooth headsets and other non-standard equipment
shall be purchased with an employee’s personal funds, and the county shall not
reimburse an employee for such purchases.
      (5)   Upon resignation or termination of employment, an employee who has
been issued a county-paid cell phone shall immediately return such phone, and
all related peripheral equipment, to his or her department head.
      (6)   Employees who separate from employment with outstanding debts for
equipment loss or unauthorized charges will be considered to have left
employment on unsatisfactory terms, and may be subject to legal action for
recovery of the loss.
      (7)   Employees must notify the County Computer Department immediately of
any lost, damaged, or stolen county-provided Blackberry or other smart phone.
   (C)   Safety issues for cellular phone use.
      (1)   County employees using mobile/cellular telephone equipment for
business purposes in any vehicle should use a headset or hands-free device at
all times. This section applies to all county employees regardless of cellular
telephone ownership or vehicle ownership.
      (2)   Regardless of the circumstances, including slow or stopped traffic,
employees are encouraged to pull off to the side of the road and safely stop
the vehicle before placing, or accepting, a call. If acceptance of a call is
unavoidable and pulling over is not an option, employees are expected to keep
calls short, use hands-free equipment, refrain from discussion of complicated
or emotional discussions, and keep their eyes on the road. Special care should
be taken in situations where there is traffic, inclement weather, or the
employee is driving in an unfamiliar area.
      (3)   At no time shall any county employee use a cellular phone,
regardless of ownership, for reading and/or sending text messages, instant
messages, email, or social media communication (Twitter, Facebook, and the
like) while driving for business purposes, including commuting to, and from,
work.
(Res. 11-04, passed - -)
§ 39.17 VEHICLE POLICY.
   (A)   General vehicle policies.
      (1)   The county may assign employees a county vehicle, or in the
alternative pay for operation of employees’ personal vehicle, to conduct county
services. County vehicles are divided into three categories: Sheriff vehicles,
Highway Department vehicles, and civilian vehicles. For purposes of
maintenance, the Sheriff and Highway Departments will have separate maintenance
policies. The civilian vehicles will follow the maintenance policies contained
in this section. Employees who drive county vehicles and/or whose position
involves driving a county vehicle, at any time, shall be subject to this
section. It is recognized that the Sheriff and Highway Departments will have
additional vehicle policies based upon their individual department needs.
      (2)   Anyone who is in violation of traffic laws resulting in a suspended
driver’s license shall not drive a county vehicle, and shall be subject to
administrative review of any status change in their driver’s license and
coverage by the county’s insurance company.
      (3)   A human resources representative shall be notified when a county
employee whose job may involve driving a county vehicle receives a ticket, or
is charged with a crime resulting from the operation of a personal or county
vehicle. It is not necessary to notify a human resources representative of
personal parking tickets or other non-moving violations unless the violation
results in suspension of an employee’s driver’s license.
      (4)   It shall be an employee’s responsibility to inform the
administrator at the beginning of the next work day of any change in driver’s
license status. Failure to inform shall result in disciplinary action up to,
and including, termination.
   (B)   General vehicle safety rules.
      (1)   Authorized personnel driving county vehicles are responsible for
the safe use of the vehicle. Supervisors and administrators are responsible for
enforcing the general safety rules.
      (2)   All occupants of county-owned vehicles, or any vehicle used on
county service, must wear seat belts when provided. This includes business
travel during non-working hours.
         (a)   Wearing seat belts means properly using the complete safety belt
system available in the vehicle.
         (b)   County vehicles with defective safety belt systems may not be
used until repaired. Employees must report defective vehicles to supervisors.
      (3)   If a driver feels fatigued or incapable of safely operating a
vehicle, he or she must request relief from a supervisor.
      (4)   All ignition systems must be turned off while refueling. Smoking is
also prohibited while refueling.
      (5)   No operator shall carry loose tools and equipment, or allow debris
to accumulate on the floor of any vehicle. Under no circumstances may tools or
equipment be carried on the seat or window ledge of any vehicle.
      (6)   No animals are allowed in a county vehicle without the permission
of the department head. This rule does not pertain to public safety and/or
service animals.
      (7)   Smoking in a county vehicle is prohibited.
      (8)   Avoid cell phone use while the vehicle is in motion whenever
possible. Texting and laptop use is prohibited while the vehicle is in motion.
      (9)   Stopping on the highway should be avoided. When it is absolutely
necessary to stop on the highway, cautions shall be used. Warning lights and
signals shall be used.
      (10)   All employees or authorized operators are prohibited from driving
county vehicles unless they possess a valid driver’s license.
      (11)   Any authorized driver, or passenger, in a county vehicle
possessing substances or narcotics that are illegal or controlled under federal
or state laws, or alcoholic beverages, in a county vehicle, or being under the
influence of those substances while in a county vehicle, will be subject to
disciplinary action, up to, and including, termination. This policy applies to
any personally-owned vehicle when it is being used for county business.
   (C)   Vehicle acquisition.
      (1)   There is the inherent need for the county to secure vehicles and
equipment for the performance of assigned duties. At the same time, the
administrators are tasked with providing transportation at the lowest cost to
the county. An administrator is required to provide written justification to
accompany a request for a new vehicle. Vehicle purchase approval decisions by
the Board of Commissioners will be made based upon the department’s response to
the following justification questions:
         (a)   What is the intended use of the vehicle and the daily functions
it must perform?
         (b)   What is the anticipated average monthly mileage of official use?
         (c)   What is the vehicle type requested, and what is needed
(specifications) to perform the job which it is intended?
         (d)   What funds are budgeted for the vehicle purchase?
         (e)   Will this vehicle purchase replace an existing vehicle, or add
to the county fleet? If replacing an existing vehicle, specify the vehicle to
be replaced. If the purchase expands the fleet, the administrator must provide
compelling justification for the addition to the fleet along with the written
request.
         (f)   What considerations have been given to consolidating vehicle
use? Can one vehicle be used to accommodate two or more needs?
         (g)   Is the administrator replacing a vehicle with less than 100,000
miles? The Board of Commissioners requires a vehicle to have 100,000 miles
before replacement, unless mechanical problems require the vehicle to be
replaced earlier. If replacing a vehicle with less than 100,000 miles,
documentation of the history of mechanical problems that justify the vehicle
being replaced is needed.
      (2)   Civilian-fleet vehicles will be purchased by the individual the
Board of Commissioners appoint as the fleet manager. Sheriff vehicles will be
purchased by the Sheriff’s fleet manager, and the Highway Department vehicles
will be purchased by the Highway Superintendent. Generally, new vehicles will
be purchased using the State Department of Administration Procurement
Division’s Vehicle Quantity Purchase Agreements (QPAs). If a fleet manager is
able to obtain a quote below the QPA for a vehicle that meets the same
specifications, the fleet manager may purchase the vehicle from another source.
Larger trucks and other road equipment will need to be purchased through a bid
process as prescribed by the state bid regulations. Leasing vehicles is not
preferred, but if an administrator can demonstrate significant savings, and
provide written justification of savings, a lease will be considered.
   (D)   Vehicle assignment; take home. The County Board of Commissioners have
the discretion to decide whether a take home vehicle should be assigned to an
employee. Generally, it is the policy of the county to prohibit take home
vehicles. For employees to be assigned a take home vehicle, the administrator
must show that the duties of the employee meet one of the following criteria:
      (1)   In the case of an elected county official, it shall be shown that
the duties of the office require driving about the county in the performance of
official duty;
      (2)   In the case of a department head, a take-home vehicle may be a part
of his or her compensation packet and, if a department head currently receives
this benefit, he or she will continue to do so. Any person hired to fill the
position of a department head does not have a guaranteed use of a take home
vehicle. The County Board of Commissioners will decide if a new department head
is to receive the use of a take home vehicle as a part of his or her
compensation packet;
      (3)   In the case of employees, it must be shown that the major portion
of the duties assigned to the employee must require travel on county business
in excess of 500 miles each month, or that the vehicle is identified by the
department as an integral part of the job assignment. In addition, at least one
of the following criteria must be met for the vehicle to be taken home:
         (a)   The job requires an employee to be on call on a recurring basis
beyond normal duty hours, and when called out, requires immediate travel from a
residence to a location where specific skills, services, tools, equipment, or
supplies are necessary to perform the job;
         (b)   The job involves leaving directly from home to variable work
sites, in which travel to a central location to obtain a county-owned vehicle
would result in significant amounts of unnecessary travel time and loss of
productive hours; and/or
         (c)   The employee is a law enforcement officer or a public safety
emergency responder.
      (4)   In the case of a take-home vehicle, the county vehicle insurance
policy does not cover medical costs for family members injured in an accident.
If an employee allows family members to ride in a county vehicle, the risk of
paying for medical expenses transfers to the family for all members except for
the employee. Lack of medical coverage applies to any family member who rides
in a county vehicle, including a law enforcement officer.
   (E)   Vehicle operation.
      (1)   County employees, or authorized operators, may operate a county-
owned, leased, or rented vehicle. All county employees, or authorized
operators, who operate a county vehicle must:
         (a)   Possess a valid state driver’s license appropriate to the type
of vehicle to be driven. The driver’s license must not be suspended or set to
expire before the county employee is expected to complete his or her travel;
and
         (b)   Be conducting official business on behalf of the county. Law
enforcement personnel are exempt from this restriction.
      (2)   Volunteers and interns are authorized operators of county-owned,
leased, or rented vehicles, provided they are approved to drive the vehicle by
the administrator.
      (3)   The following individuals may ride as passengers in a county
vehicle:
         (a)   A county employee(s) conducting business on behalf of the
county;
         (b)   A passenger transported by a law enforcement officer;
         (c)   A non-county employee who is an independent contractor, an
intern, or a volunteer conducting business on behalf of the county. A non-
county employee includes state, federal, town, or city employees who are
working with a county employee, or other authorized operator of a county
vehicle;
         (d)   A resident of Cypress Manor (county home);
         (e)   A citizen, a vendor, or any person who has official business
with the county; and
         (f)   A family member of an employee assigned a take-home vehicle,
however, in the case of an accident, the medical cost for a family member is
not covered by the county vehicle insurance policy.
   (F)   Authorized use. County vehicles may only be used for tasks outlined
below. Law enforcement vehicles are exempt from these restrictions:
      (1)   Travel between the place where the county vehicle is dispatched,
and the place where the official county business is performed;
      (2)   When on official travel status, travel between the place of county
business and a place of temporary lodging, or for obtaining food;
      (3)   Travel between the places of performance of county business to an
employee’s personal residence when authorized by an employee’s administrator. A
county employee may park a county vehicle overnight at the employee’s residence
if:
         (a)   The vehicle is assigned as a take-home vehicle;
         (b)   For pool vehicles, when the employee’s home is located a
significant distance from the vehicle pool location, and such retention would
result in a savings in time and distance traveled;
         (c)   Travel to the place of performance of county business must begin
too early in the morning to allow for the employee to secure a county vehicle
before departing that day; and/or
         (d)   The employee returns from the place of performance of county
business too late in the day to return the county vehicle that day.
      (4)   For take-home vehicles, for purposes of commuting between residence
and place of work, and for routine de minimis (minor) personal use between work
and home; and
      (5)   County vehicles may be driven outside of the county to conduct
business. A vehicle cannot be driven outside the state without the express
approval of the administrator.
   (G)   Unauthorized use. County vehicles may not be used as outlined below,
except for de minimis (minor) personal use (such as a stop for lunch while
traveling on county business). Law enforcement vehicles are exempt from these
restrictions:
      (1)   Any use for personal purposes, other than travel to the employee’s
personal residence which has been authorized by the County Board of
Commissioners;
      (2)   Travel or tasks that are beyond the vehicle’s rated capability or
capacity;
      (3)   Travel outside of the state, unless authorized by the
administrator;
      (4)   Transportation of pets, livestock, domestic, or wild animals except
in the conduct of official county business;
      (5)   Transport of cargo that has no relation to the performance of
official county business;
      (6)   Transport of acids, alcohol, explosives, weapons, ammunition, or
highly flammable materials, except in the course of official duties. Transport
of these restricted items must be in compliance with all applicable local,
county, and federal laws;
      (7)   Transport of any item or equipment projecting from the side, front,
or rear of the vehicle in a way that constitutes an obstruction to safe
driving, or a hazard to pedestrians or other vehicles;
      (8)   Engaging in any activity that would impede the safe operation of
the vehicle;
      (9)   Unreasonably extending the length of time the vehicle is in the
employee’s possession beyond that which is required to complete the official
purpose of the trip;
      (10)   Operating a county vehicle without a valid driver’s license, or
while said license is under suspension or revocation;
      (11)   Smoking while in a county vehicle;
      (12)   Adding any non-county issued devices, appliances, radios,
antennas, seats, or other after-market equipment to a county vehicle including,
but not limited to, radar detectors, CB radios, satellite radios, fixed mount
GPS devices, or speakers to a county vehicle. Exemptions must be approved in
writing by the administrator;
      (13)   Removing or disabling any item from a county vehicle that was
either installed on the vehicle by the manufacturer or by the county,
including, but not limited to, cruise control, air bags, seats, seat belts,
speakers, or in-vehicle communication subscription equipment; and
      (14)   Administrators have the authority and responsibility to restrict
county employees from operating county vehicles when the employee has a history
of being an unsafe or irresponsible vehicle operator.
   (H)   Employee responsibility for vehicle use.
      (1)   Employees are expected to use county vehicles in a responsible
manner, and within the bounds of all traffic and parking laws. The vehicle
operator must pay any towing, storage, parking, or traffic fines resulting from
the operator’s violation of existing laws or ordinances while operating a
county vehicle. The county will not reimburse the operator for any such fines.
      (2)   Damages, or other financial assessments, related to county vehicles
that, after official agency review, are determined to have been the result of
the driver’s poor judgment, irresponsibility, negligence, or violation of these
rules may be charged to the employee. Such charges or assessments may include,
but are not limited to, tow charges, damage to the vehicle, and all traffic and
parking violations.
      (3)   Employees shall be responsible for checking the county vehicle
before operation to ensure that the vehicle lights, turn signals, brake lights,
and other safety equipment are functional on the county vehicle.
      (4)   Employees are to lock the doors of county vehicles when the vehicle
is not in use.
      (5)   Employees are not to drive any county vehicle with damages or
defects which make the vehicle unsafe for operation.
      (6)   The use of cellular phones while driving is strongly discouraged.
If a cell phone must be used while driving, employees should pull over to the
side of the road at the safest opportunity, or pull into a rest stop or parking
lot and stop the vehicle.
   (I)   Vehicle operation risk. 
      (1)   There are four general vehicle damage scenarios when an employee is
using a vehicle for county business.
      (2)   Below is a summary of those scenarios, as well as information
specific to who is responsible for payment.
         (a)   If a county vehicle is damaged when the county employee is at
fault, then the agency pays for the repair. The other driver must file a tort
claim, which is reviewed by the County Board of Commissioners. The Board will
review the claim, and determine whether to pay for damage or injury from the
tort claim fund.
         (b)   If a county vehicle is damaged when a non-county employee is at
fault then the county insurance provider will pay for repairs and seek
reimbursement from the third party insurance provider.
         (c)   If a personal vehicle is damaged when a county employee is at
fault, then the employee shall file a claim with his or her own insurance
carrier, and must pay his or her deductible. The other driver must file a tort
claim with the County Board of Commissioners. The Board will review the claim
and determine whether to pay for damage or injury from the tort claim fund.
         (d)   If a personal vehicle is damaged when a non-county employee is
at fault, then the employee must file a claim with the other driver’s insurance
carrier to his or her own insurance carrier, and pay his or her own deductible.
The employee’s insurance carrier has the ability to subrogate.
   (J)   County and county employee risk; personally-owned vehicles.
      (1)   Every person operating a motor vehicle on the public streets and
highways of the county is statutorily required to maintain minimum insurance
(see I.C. 9-25-4-5). When an employee drives his or her personally-owned
vehicle (POV) for county business, the employee is eligible for reimbursement
from the county. The County Council, being responsible for establishing the
rate for reimbursement, has chosen to use the current State Mileage
Reimbursement Rate, as set by the State Department of Administration.
         (a)   The County Council may adopt a different reimbursement rate for
individual departments based upon need, or may adjust the entire reimbursement
rate if the County Council determines it is necessary.
         (b)   The county’s mileage reim-bursement is provided to cover terms
such as depreciation (or lease payments), maintenance and repairs, tires,
gasoline (including all applicable taxes), oil, insurance, and license and
registration fees. Therefore, the county does not take on the liability of the
county employee’s personal vehicle because the cost is incorporated into the
per diem the county pays the employee for driving his or her POV.
      (2)   When a county employee drives his or her POV within the scope of
employment, and is involved in an accident, the county employee is generally
immune from a lawsuit brought by a passenger in his or her car, or any other
injured third party (see I.C. 34-13-3-3). If the county employee is injured,
the employee can file a workers’ compensation claim but may not sue the county;
recovery is limited to the workers’ compensation settlement. However, the
employee may independently pursue a claim against a third party driver.
      (3)   If a non-county employee passenger is injured while riding with a
county employee in a personal vehicle during the course of county business, and
some fault is placed upon the county employee, the passenger would have a
proper tort claim and would have to file a claim under the Tort Claim Act to be
reimbursed for injury or damage. If the county employee was sued for the
incident by a passenger or a third-party driver, the county would provide a
defense. However, damage to the county employee’s vehicle would not be covered
by the Tort Claim Act through his or her own insurance carrier.
   (K)   Vehicle accident. In case of a vehicle accident while on county
business:
      (1)   Call 911 and then the department administrator;
      (2)   All county vehicle accidents, which occur in the county, are to be
investigated by the County Sheriff’s Department;
      (3)   All county vehicle accidents which occur outside of the county are
to be investigated by the agency of jurisdiction at that time;
      (4)   The employee must make no comments as to fault or liability. If a
claim results, the employee must respond to law enforcement authorities, or
someone hired by the county to investigate the accident;
      (5)   Obtain the name, address, phone number, driver’s license number,
vehicle license plate, insurance company, and policy number of all involved
drivers;
      (6)   Obtain the name, address, and phone number of witnesses and
passengers;
      (7)   Complete and submit a county vehicle accident report as soon as
possible. Reports are available through the human resource department;
      (8)   Obtain or take photographs of the accident;
      (9)   If a county vehicle needs to be towed, every effort should be made
to have the vehicle towed to the nearest county facility in lieu of a private
storage facility; and
      (10)   An employee will be required to submit to an alcohol and/or
controlled substance testing if the employee is:
         (a)   Involved in an accident resulting in loss of human life, or
receives a citation concerning an accident which requires either medical
treatment away from the scene, or a vehicle is towed from the scene;
         (b)   An alcohol test should take place within two hours, but no more
than eight hours, following the accident. A controlled substance test must take
place within 32 hours after the accident; and
         (c)   An employee shall follow the instructions from his or her
administrator or designee supervisor, or law enforcement officer, to complete
required testing. The testing procedures and testing sites are available at the
human resources department, or from the fleet manager.
   (L)   Vehicle theft procedures. In case of vehicle theft, the employee
should:
      (1)   Notify the appropriate law enforcement agency. Record the attending
officer’s name and badge number;
      (2)   Obtain the name, address, and phone number of any witnesses; and
      (3)   Notify the department administrator.
   (M)   IRS requirements for employer-provided vehicles.
      (1)   The Internal Revenue Service requires payroll tax withholding and
compensation reporting (W-2) for employees using county-owned vehicles for non-
business or commuting purposes. These employees must report the number of days
the vehicle was used for commuting during each payroll period.
      (2)   The amounts used in this section are current as of the publication
of this policy. These amounts are set by the Internal Revenue Service and are
subject to change. The IRS policy defines three different classifications of
vehicles used by county employees:
         (a)   No personal use (no take-home vehicle policy);
         (b)   Commuting use (take-home vehicle policy); and
         (c)   Allowable personal use (take-home vehicle policy, plus personal
use).
      (3)   The rules for each policy choice are explained in divisions (N),
(O), and (P) below. Any penalties incurred by the county for non-compliance
with these provisions are considered to be the employee’s responsibility. An
administrator may cause undue expense to his or her employees, from the
Internal Revenue Service, if compliance is not enforced.
   (N)   No personal use; no take-home vehicle policy.
      (1)   Under the no personal use policy, employee use of a county-owned
vehicle will be considered non-taxable to an employee, provided the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   The vehicle must be owned, or leased, by the county and provided
to one or more of its employees to be used in connection with county business;
         (b)   When the vehicle is not being used for county business, it must
be kept on county premises, except when it is temporarily elsewhere for repairs
or maintenance. There may be situations that the administrator might waive this
requirement. The administrator must provide a written statement for the wavier;
and
         (c)   The employee is prohibited from using the vehicle for personal
use except for a de minimus use (such as a stop for lunch between two business
deliveries).
      (2)   The adoption, and the adherence to, this no personal use policy, as
described in division (N)(1) above, will be sufficient substantiation to the
IRS that the use of the county vehicle is exclusively for county business.
   (O)   Commuting use; take-home vehicle policy.
      (1)   Under this policy, the value of a vehicle to an employee for
commuting use is calculated by multiplying each one-way commute (that is, from
home to work, or from work to home) by $1.50. If more than one employee
commutes in the vehicle, this value applies to each employee. This amount must
be included in the employee’s wages. See division (D) above for those employees
who may receive a take-home vehicle.
      (2)   An employee with a commuting use vehicle may stop by a store,
restaurant, or other establishments to conduct personal business when he or she
is traveling to and from work. An employee is prohibited from using a
commuting-use vehicle for other personal business; however, a take-home vehicle
may be used for routine de minimus personal use between work and home.
      (3)   The Internal Revenue Service has established that the commuting use
is a taxable benefit to the employee. Employees are required to maintain
records and report on the number of one-way commutes between the employee’s
home and place of work for each payroll period.
   (P)   Allowable personal use; take-home vehicle policy, personal use. As a
policy, there are no take-home vehicles used by county employees that are
classified by the IRS as allowable personal-use vehicles. All take-home
vehicles used by county employees are classified as commuting-use vehicles,
with the exception of law enforcement officers.
   (Q)   Maintenance of civilian fleet.
      (1)   All employees assigned a vehicle in the civilian fleet will have
their vehicles maintained by the fleet manager, as established by the County
Board of Commissioners. Currently, the fleet manager is the Sheriff’s fleet
manager. Maintenance and repair of the civilian-fleet vehicles will be done at
the Sheriff’s Department garage, or at another facility determined by the fleet
manager. The fleet manager will establish a maintenance schedule for all
civilian-fleet vehicles. Generally, a civilian-fleet vehicle will be scheduled
for maintenance every six months. The fleet manager will send an email reminder
to the employee assigned to the vehicle and his or her administrator. It is the
responsibility of the employee to take the vehicle to the garage for
maintenance at the appropriate time, and it is the administrator’s
responsibility to ensure that the employee complies. The failure to properly
maintain the vehicle will result in the loss of the use of the vehicle.
      (2)   All employees assigned to a vehicle are responsible for keeping the
vehicle washed and clean inside. Vehicles can be washed at the Sheriff’s
Department garage. It is the responsibility of an administrator to manage his
or her employee to ensure compliance with the vehicle policies.
(Res. 11-07, passed 12-13-2011)
§ 39.18 SMOKING POLICY.
   (A)   The use of tobacco products by employees is discouraged. House Bill
1149, creating Pub. Law No. 141 enacts a smoking ban, and requires employers
and owners, operators, managers, or officials in charge of workplaces and
public places to prohibit smoking in enclosed areas of workplaces and public
places, and within eight feet of public entrances to workplaces and public
places. This legislation requires employers to notify employees and applicants
of the workplace smoking restrictions.
   (B)   Employers, owners, and managers cannot discharge employees, refuse to
hire applicants, or otherwise retaliate against any persons who report
violations of the smoking provisions, or exercise their rights, or satisfy
their obligations, under the smoking provisions. Owners, operators, managers,
or other officials in charge of workplaces or public places that violate the
smoking provisions are guilty of a Class B infraction. Owners, operators,
managers, or other officials in charge of workplaces or public places are
guilty of a Class A infraction if they violate the smoking provisions, and have
committed at least three unrelated prior infractions.
   (C)   The use of tobacco products by employees inside county vehicles is
prohibited. Employees violating this policy may be subject to disciplinary
action, up to, and including, termination and may be charged with a section
violation, and/or a Class C Infraction pursuant to the State Clean Indoor Air
Law, I.C. 7.1-5-12. Administrators shall provide, in writing, all violations of
this policy to the Board of Commissioners.
(Res. 12-10, passed 6-26-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   WASTE, SANITATION
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
   
50.01   On-site sewage system
   
50.02   Ground water wells
   
50.03   Collection of fees, charges
   
50.04   Permits; regulated drains, easements
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PLOT PLAN. A graphic representation which identifies the topography,
locations, easements, current ground elevations and elevations of the proposed
improvements.
      REGISTERED INSTALLER. Any individual who performs any work in furtherance
of construction, installation, replacement, alteration, or repair of any
residential or commercial on-site sewage system.
      REPAIR INSTALLATION. The repair or replacement of any on-site sewage
system component other than the replacement or expansion of a soil absorption
field.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   All persons owning, leasing, or otherwise occupying property that
has a residence, residential outbuilding or commercial facility with plumbing
not connected to sanitary sewer shall comply with the requirements of 410
I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq., 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1 et seq., and/or Bulletin S.E. 11, 2021
version, as applicable, and the provisions of this section for an on-site
sewage system.
      (2)   Any installation, repair, replacement, alteration or modification
must be completed by a registered installer who shall be deemed responsible for
the work. A registered installer must:
         (a)   Apply to the County Health Department for registration on a form
provided by the department.
         (b)   Provide proof of a valid installer certificate issued from the
Indiana Onsite Wastewater Professionals Association (IOWPA) or another entity
recognized by the Health Officer.
      (3)   In the event of a residential or commercial on-site sewage system
failure the residence, residential outbuilding, or commercial facility shall be
required to make a connection to sanitary sewer, if the sanitary sewer is
available within 300 feet of the affected property line and is available for
connection at a construction cost and connection fee estimated not to exceed
150% of the cost estimated for installing an on-site sewage system to serve the
residence, residential outbuilding or commercial facility.
      (4)   In the event that a sewage holding tank is not operated in a safe
and sanitary manner and in accordance with I.C. 16-41-25-9 and this section,
the County Health Department may require the residence, residential
outbuilding, or commercial facility to:
         (a)   Connect to sanitary sewer if the sanitary sewer is available
within 300 feet of the affected property line and is available for connection
at a construction cost and connection fee estimated not to exceed 150% of the
cost estimated for installing an on-site sewage system to serve the residence,
residential outbuilding or commercial facility; or
         (b)   Install an on-site sewage system with a soil absorption field in
compliance with 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 or 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1 or connect to an existing
system that has not failed.
      (5)   Any lot subdivided after the adoption of this section, being served
by an on-site sewage system, and requiring approval utilizing the County
Subdivision Control Ordinance, must be at least one and one half acres and
provide a soil absorption field area. A soil profile analysis prepared by a
soil scientist consisting of at least three sample sites in the area of the
proposed soil absorption field is required. The sample sites must be
representative of the soils within the absorption field and meet the
requirements in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 or 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1.
      (6)   Sewage holding tanks.
         (a)   Sewage holding tanks must meet all requirements of a septic tank
as defined in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 and 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1.
         (b)   All permanent sewage holding tanks must hold at least three
times the design daily flow.
         (c)   Pump receipts must be submitted to the County Health Department
within 30 days of the tank being pumped.
         (d)   All holding tanks shall be required to have an operating permit
issued by the County Health Department. Operating permits shall be renewed
annually and are valid from January 1 to December 31 of the same year.
   (C)   Permitting.
      (1)   At all times, from the start of installation to the time of
inspection, the approved plan and permit shall be available on site.
      (2)   Any deviation from the permit or approved plan must be approved in
writing by the County Health Department prior to modification. A plot plan
showing the installation details including the unplanned modifications will be
required.
      (3)   All construction permits are valid for a period of two years after
the date issued. After expiration of the permit, construction may not begin
without reapplication, payment of the permit fee, and reissuance of a permit.
      (4)   The applicant shall provide the following with their signed permit
application:
         (a)   Residential on-site sewage system permit.
            1.   Two copies of the plot plan.
            2.   A soil profile analysis prepared by a soil scientist
consisting of at least three sample sites in the area of the proposed soil
absorption field. The sample sites must be representative of the soils within
the absorption field.
            3.   A floor plan of the proposed/existing dwelling showing all
doors, windows, closets, and walls.
            4.   Confirmation that the proposed on-site sewage system has been
staked or marked at each end of all proposed trenches, any bends, the four
corners of the basal area for a sand-based system, and aggregate bed for an
elevated sand mound system.
            5.   If a recorded affidavit is supplied, it must be on a form
provided by the County Health Department that is signed by the owner, notarized
and recorded with the County Recorder’s Office.
            6.   All appropriate fees as outlined in the County Ordinance for
Collection of Fees.
         (b)   Residential on-site sewage system repair permit.
            1.   An IOWPA inspection form completed by a registered installer
may be required.
            2.   All appropriate fees as outlined in the County Ordinance for
Collection of Fees.
         (c)   Sewage holding tank permits.
            1.   A sewage holding tank construction permit requires:
               a.   A signed application for an on-site sewage holding tank
permit.
               b.   A construction plan of sufficient clarity to show
compliance with this section.
               c.   A copy of a written contract with an operator of a septage
management vehicle providing for the removal of septage at regular intervals.
               d.   If a recorded affidavit is supplied, it must be on a form
provided by the County Health Department that is signed by the owner, notarized
and recorded with the County Recorder’s Office.
               e.   All appropriate fees as outlined in the County Ordinance
for Collection of Fees.
            2.   An operating permit issuance or renewal requires:
               a.   A signed application for an on-site sewage holding tank
operating permit.
               b.   An inspection report by a registered installer for
verification of proper operation of the tank and alarm system.
               c.   All appropriate fees as outlined in the County Ordinance
for Collection of Fees.
         (d)   Commercial on-site sewage system permit.
            1.   A signed application for an on-site sewage system permit.
            2.   A soil profile analysis prepared by a soil scientist
consisting of at least three sample sites in the area of the proposed soil
absorption field. The sample sites must be representative of the soils within
the absorption field.
            3.   An approval letter and two copies of the approved plot plan
from the State Department of Health, or the technical specification data report
indicating the project has been delegated to the County Health Department with
two copies of the plot plan that meets the specified requirements.
            4.   Confirmation that the proposed on-site sewage system has been
staked or marked at each end of all proposed trenches, any bends, the four
corners of the basal area for a sand-based system, and aggregate bed for a sand
mound system.
            5.   All appropriate fees as outlined in the County Ordinance for
Collection of Fees.
   (D)   Approval. The Health Officer or agent shall be allowed to inspect the
construction work at any stage of installation of the on-site sewage system.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Whenever the Health Officer or agent determines there are
reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of this section,
410 I.A.C. 6-8.3, or 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1, the Health Officer or agent shall give
notice of such alleged violation to the person or persons responsible, as
hereafter provided. Such notice shall:
         (a)   Indicate the date and location of the violation.
         (b)   Clearly indicate the nature of the violation and the related
ordinance citation.
         (c)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of necessary
remediation.
         (d)   Be properly served upon the person or persons responsible,
provided that such notice is deemed to be properly served. Proper service shall
be any of the following:
            1.   Sent to the person directly via first class mail;
            2.   Sent by certified mail to the last known mailing address of
the person;
            3.   Posted in a conspicuous place in or about the property
affected by the notice; or
            4.   Other method of service authorized or required under the laws
of this state.
      (2)   Whenever the Health Officer or agent finds that an emergency exists
which requires immediate action to protect the public health, the Health
Officer may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence
of such an emergency and require that such action be taken as he deems
necessary to alleviate the emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions of
this section, 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3, and 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1, such order shall be
effective immediately.
   (F)   Appeal process.
      (1)   Any person or persons affected by enforcement or permit denial
issued by the Health Officer or agent may request and shall be granted a
hearing on the matter before the County Board of Health. The request shall be
in writing and received within ten calendar days of receipt of notice of
violation at the office of the County Health Department.
      (2)   Such request shall briefly state the reasons for the requested
hearing. Upon receipt of a request for a hearing, the Health Officer or agent
shall arrange a time and a place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner
written notice thereof. Such hearing shall be held as soon as practical but no
later than 30 days after receipt of request unless the Health Officer and the
petitioner agree in writing to a later date.
      (3)   Any notice served pursuant to division (E) of this section shall
automatically become an order if a written request for a hearing is not
received within ten calendar days after receipt of the notice of violation is
served.
      (4)   At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given the opportunity to
be heard and to show evidence as to why the notice of violation should be
modified or withdrawn, or the permit should be issued. Additionally, the Health
Officer or agent shall be given time to explain the circumstances of the notice
of violation.
      (5)   After such hearing, the County Board of Health shall sustain,
modify, or withdraw the notice of violation, depending upon its findings as to
whether the provisions of this section, 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3, or 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1,
have been met. If the County Board of Health sustains or modifies such notice
of violation, it shall then be deemed to be an order. If the Board of Health
shall overrule the permit denial, then a permit shall be issued and signed by
the Chairperson of the Board of Health. The proceedings at such hearing,
including the findings and decision of the County Board of Health, shall be
summarized, reduced to writing, and entered as a matter of public record in the
office of the County Board of Health. Such record shall also include a copy of
every notice of violation or order issued in connection with this matter as
well as any other pertinent information. Any person may seek relief thereof
from any court of competent jurisdiction as provided by the law of the state.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 3-26-2013; Ord. 2024-22, passed 6-25-2024; Ord. 2024-50,
passed 12-10-2024) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 GROUND WATER WELLS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         DEWATERING WELL. A temporary water well that:
            1.   Is used as part of a construction project to remove water from
a surface or subsurface area; and
            2.   Ceases to be used upon completion of the construction project
or shortly after completion of the project.
         DEWATERING WELLS are not subject to this section.
         GROUND WATER. Water occurring beneath the surface of the ground
regardless of location or form, as defined in I.C. 25-39-2.
         HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer, or the authorized
representative thereof, and shall have the same meaning as LOCAL HEALTH OFFICER
in I.C. 16-18-2-212 and I.C. 16-20.
         PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, or partnership.
         POTABLE WATER. Water suitable for human consumption.
         PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY. One or more sources of ground water, including
facilities for conveyance thereof, such as wells, springs, and pumps, other
than those serving a municipality, or those operating as a public utility under
the rules of the State Public Service Commission, or those defined as a public
water supply well.
         PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY WELL. As defined in 312 I.A.C. 13-1-20, a well
that provides a source of water to a public water system, as defined in 327
I.A.C. 8-2-1, that serves either of the following:
            1.   At least 15 service connections used by year-round residents,
or regularly serves at least 25 year-round residents; or
            2.   At least 15 service connections used by non-residents, or
regularly serves 25, or more, non-resident individuals daily for at least 60
days per year.
         PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY WELLS are not subject to this section.
         PUMP INSTALLER. Any individual, partnership, firm, or corporation that
installs a pump in a well, or opens the well to service a pump, and is licensed
by the State Department of Natural Resources under 312 I.A.C. 13-2-1.
         RESIDENTIAL WELL. Any well drilled for the use of one or two dwelling
units.
         WELL. As defined in I.C. 25-39-2, a hole drilled or driven to:
            1.   Obtain geologic information on aquifers;
            2.   Monitor the quality or quantity of ground water;
            3.   Obtain ground water; or
            4.   Utilize the geothermal properties of earth formations.
         WELL DRILLER. Any individual, partnership, firm, or corporation that
produces, or contracts to construct, a well, and is licensed by the State
Department of Natural Resources under 312 I.A.C. 13-2.
         WELL OWNER. The legal owner of the real estate containing the well
site.
         WELL REPAIR. Any work on a well, well pump, or accessory lines thereto
when the pitless adaptor is removed, or separated, from a well that is not a
public water supply well.
      (2)   The definitions in this section are in addition to those contained
in I.C. 25-39-2, 312 I.A.C. 12-1, 312 I.A.C. 13-1, and 327, I.A.C. 8, and apply
throughout this section.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to public water supply wells.
   (C)   Permits.
      (1)   Before commencement of construction of a well or geothermal heat
pump system utilizing a well, a well repair, or a pump installation, the owner,
or agent, shall obtain a written permit signed by the Health Officer.
         (a)   No person shall perform any work on such project until such
permit is obtained.
         (b)   The application for such permit shall be made on a form provided
by the County Health Officer, which applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as deemed necessary by the County Health
Officer. Such permit shall be void if the installation is not completed in one
year.
      (2)   In emergency situations, the applicant for the well permit shall
notify the County Health Department of the pending well installation prior to
such installation. The well permit application shall be submitted with
signatures within 24 hours of the first regular scheduled workday after the
start of the emergency installation, and the application shall provide details
regarding the specific situation that mandated the emergency well installation.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install a well or well pump,
or to perform a well repair in the county who does not possess a valid permit
from the County Health Officer.
      (4)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of this
section will be entitled to receive and retain such a permit.
      (5)   Any permits issued by the County Health Officer shall contain the
name of the property owner, site address, the parcel ID for the property on
which the well will be drilled, and other pertinent information required by the
Health Officer.
   (D)   Permit fees. A permit fee of the amount specified in §
37.28, shall be paid to the County Health Department at such time as an owner,
or his or her agent, makes application for a well or pump permit.
   (E)   Minimum requirements.
      (1)   All water well drillers and pump installers operating in the county
shall comply with the terms and provisions of this section and the incorporated
articles. All water well drillers and pumpinstallers operating in the county
shall comply with the licensing requirements of I.C. 25-39-3.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any new
groundwater well located in the county shall be operated in compliance with
technical criteria and regulatory compliance set out in 312 I.A.C. 12 and 13,
and I.C. 14-25 and I.C. 25-39. Two copies of each are kept on file in the
County Health Department for public inspection.
         (b)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner and the
well driller to submit to the County Health Department the following reports,
within 30 days of well drilling:
            1.   Well drilling logs;
            2.   Bacteriological water sample results;
            3.   Water pump technical specifications; and
            4.   Other reports requested by the County Health Department, or
any other county, state, or federal department or agency.
      (2)   Any time a repair is made to an existing well, the well must be
fitted with a pitless adaptor and the well casing extended to one foot above
ground level, and if located in a designated flood hazard area, must be at
least two feet above the elevation of the regulatory flood, or the well must be
fitted with a well seal.
      (3)   (a)   Private water supply wells and open loop geothermal heat pump
systems serving a residence(s), and wells used for irrigation or livestock
shall be located to protect against surface drainage and flooding, and shall
maintain the following minimum separation distances from sources of
contamination:
            1.   Gravity sewers outside of building foundations, but within 18
inches vertical distance, or with ten feet horizontal distance, of potable
water lines; and
            2.   The components listed in the table below:
Component Measurement
Component                                        Measurement
Buildings, building overhangs                    5 ft.
Privies                                          50 ft.
Property lines                                   25 ft.
Septic tanks, absorption fields                  50 ft.
Sewage pits, dry wells                           100 ft.
Sewer pipes                                      30 ft.
*Sewer pipe, with gasket compression-type joints 10 ft.
Stables, livestock runs, manure piles            50 ft.
Streams, lakes, ponds                            25 ft.
Notes to Table
*   PVC ASTM-D 3034 SAR 26, or ASTM-D 2241 SAR 13.5, 17, 21, or 26.
 
         (b)   Private water supply wells and open loop geothermal heat pump
systems serving other than a residence consisting of not more than two dwelling
units shall maintain the following minimum separation distances from sources of
contamination:
            1.   Gravity sewers outside of building foundations, but within 18
inches vertical distance, or within ten feet horizontal distance of potable
water lines; and
            2.   The components listed in the table below:
Component Measurement
Component                                        Measurement
Buildings, buildings overhangs                   5 ft.
Privies                                          100 ft.
Property lines                                   5 ft.
Septic tanks, adsorption fields, filters         100 ft.
Sewer pipe                                       30 ft.
*Sewer pipe, with gasket compression-type joints 30 ft.
Sewers and drains                                100 ft.
Streams, lakes, ponds                            50 ft.
Notes to Table
*   PVC ASTM-D 3034 SAR 26, or ASTM-D 2241 SAR 13.5, 17, 21, or 26.
 
         (c)   The Health Officer, or the County Health Board may waive, by
written documentation, the requirements set forth in divisions (E)(3)(a) and
(E)(3)(b) above when it is not considered to endanger public health, and if it
is not in conflict with any other state requirements.
         (d)   Well heads and well casing openings shall not be located in any
pit, room, or space extending below the established ground surface, except when
permitted by the Health Officer, and under such conditions and construction
requirements as is prescribed by the County Board of Health.
      (4)   Groundwater wells must be properly abandoned in accordance with 312
I.A.C. 13. Any groundwater well connected to an existing structure that is
scheduled for demolition must be either:
         (a)   Properly abandoned in accordance with 312 I.A.C. 13, or other
applicable regulations, with written verification submitted to the Health
Officer prior to initiating demolition of the structure; or
         (b)   Located by global positioning system for later abandonment, with
written notification and well location submitted to the Health Officer prior to
initiating demolition of the structure.
   (F)   Compliance, inspection, permit revocation.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the well driller, and the owner of the
property on which the well is drilled, to notify the County Health Department
when the well and appurtenances are available for inspection. The Health
Officer must be permitted to inspect the well and appurtenances at any
reasonable time.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be the duty of the County Health Officer to enforce
this section.
         (b)   The Health Officer is authorized by the permittee to perform any
activities that, in the Health Officer’s opinion, are required to enforce this
section.
         (c)   These activities may include, but are not limited to:
inspections; copying and reviewing documentation; obtaining samples; obtaining
ground water samples; obtaining surface water samples; monitoring activities;
and other duties.
      (3)   If, during an inspection of any water well located in the county,
the Health Officer determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any provision of this section, he or she shall
issue a written order listing such violation to the property owner, and setting
a date by which the violation shall be abated. A copy of the written order
shall be filed in the County Health Department.
      (4)   (a)   Violators of this section shall be served a written initial
notice of violation, whether in person or by any other manner reasonably
decided to result in actual notice, including certified mail.
         (b)   Such order shall state the violation, order the abatement of the
violation, and provide a reasonable time for abatement, or notify the violator
of his or her right for a hearing before the County Board of Health.
      (5)   (a)   If the violation is not satisfactorily abated within the
specified time, a second notice of violation shall be served, in the same
manner as specified for initial notices, and containing the same information as
specified for initial notice of violation.
         (b)   If the conditions continue following the specified period of
time, the matter shall be referred to the attorney for the County Health
Department, or the County Prosecutor, for appropriate legal action and possible
revocation, or modification, of the permit as specified in this section.
      (6)   Any permit granted by the County Health Department may be revoked,
or modified, by the Health Department for any of the following causes:
         (a)   Violation of any condition of the permit;
         (b)   Failure to disclose all of the relevant facts;
         (c)   Any misrepresentation made in obtaining the permit; or
         (d)   Any change, situation, or activity relating to the use of the
permit, which, in the opinion of the Health Officer, is not consistent with the
purpose of this section.
      (7)   The Health Officer may revoke the permit and promptly give written
notice of the action to the permittee. The Health Officer shall maintain a
permanent record of proceedings, filed in the office of the County Health
Department.
         (a)   Any person aggrieved by the revocation or modification of a
permit may appeal the revocation or modification to the County Board of Health
as the appropriate board for an administrative review under I.C. 4-21.5-3. The
Administrative Adjudication Act is hereby adopted by reference.
         (b)   Pending the decision resulting from the hearing under I.C. 4-
21.5-3 concerning the permit revocation or modification, the permit shall
remain in force. However, the County Health Department may seek such injunctive
relief in regard to the activity described in the permit while the decision
resulting from the hearing is pending.
   (G)   Authority to inspect and copy records. The Health Officer may inspect
and investigate complaints pursuant to I.C. 16-20-1-23 to determine compliance
with this section. The property owner shall permit the Health Officer to
collect evidence and/or exhibits, and to routinely inspect, investigate
complaints, and copy any records relative to the enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 2016-37, passed 12-27-2016) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 COLLECTION OF FEES, CHARGES.
   (A)   General fees.
Type of Fee Fees
Type of Fee                             Fees
Application Fees
Lateral construction permit             $100 per application
Wasteland allocation                    $100 per application
Wastewater facility construction permit $100 per application
Capacity Fees
Commercial, residential connection*     $3,500 per EDU
Inspection Fees
Acceptance of facilities (post          $130 per hour
construction)
Lateral construction                    $245 per lateral
Wastewater facility (sewer)             $130 per hour
construction
Interceptor Fees
Commercial, residential wasteland       $1,000 per EDU
allocations**
Miscellaneous Fees
Disconnect fee for non-payment          $125 per event
Late payment penalty fee                10% of unpaid current charges
Lien charges                            Cost of attachment of lien, plus amount
                                        of fees owed
Returned check fee                      $25 per occurrence
Monthly Service Fees
Monthly service fee                     $45 per EDU
Vacant premises credit***               $20 per EDU
Plan Review Fees
Lateral plan review                     $150 per hour
Wasteland allocation, plan review       $150 per hour
Notes to Table
*   The entire capacity fee is due, and payable, prior to the issuance of a
wasteland allocation letter.
**   The entire interceptor fee is due, and payable, prior to the issuance of a
wasteland allocation letter.
***   Per the policy dated June 1, 2010.
 
   (B)   Industrial waste discharge permit; non-domestic.
 
Type of Fee             Fee
Annual discharge permit $50
Laboratory testing      Actual cost*
Notes to Table
*   Plus 15% handling for samples collected and processed by the District.
 
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL WASTE, for the purposes of this section, pertains to
those non-domestic waste streams discharged as defined by SIC codes, as
registered under 40 C.F.R. Part 403, Pretreatment Guidelines set forth by the
United States of America Environmental Protection Agency, and includes
significant users who discharge greater than 25,000 gallons per day of flow, or
contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more of the average dry
weather hydraulic, or organic, capacity of the POTW treatment plant; or is
designated as such by the control authority on the basis that the industrial
user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation,
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with
40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6) or by categorical classification).
      (2)   The industrial waste discharge permit does not apply to
restaurants, but does not exempt restaurants from excessive strength surcharge
fees for excess waste strength, or any required laboratory testing, or the need
to install and maintain grease traps as outlined in the District’s rules and
regulations.
   (C)   Excessive strength surcharge rates. Excessive strength surcharge rates
shall be applicable to all industrial and commercial users who generate
wastewater, which contains any non-conventional pollutants or strengths of
carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand (CBOD5), total suspended solids (TSS),
ammonia (NH3), or total phosphorus that exceed the system average strengths
listed in the table in division (C)(2) below, as determined by special
laboratory analysis by a certified laboratory. Other special service rates
shall be charged on a case-by-case basis for toxic pollutant discharges, with
the charges being based on the difficulty of treating the toxic pollutant as
well as sampling, testing, and disposal charges. Strength charges are to be
computed on actual measured strengths and volumes on a monthly basis. Excessive
strength surcharge rates shall be calculated from the number of pounds
delivered to the treatment plant in excess of the concentrations, and at the
cost per pound, listed in the table below:
 
Constitution      Constitution Limit Surcharge per Pound
BOD5              300 mg/l           $0.52
Fats, oil, grease 100 mg/l           $1.05
NH3-N             30 mg/l            $2.06
TSS               265 mg/l           $0.45
Total phosphorous 10 mg/l            $2
 
(Ord. 2017-39, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 50.04 PERMITS; REGULATED DRAINS, EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. Any person or entity performing work within the watershed or
easement of a regulated drain shall conform to the requirements set out in this
section. Any structure or improvement installed in a regulated drainage
easement must have the approval of the County Surveyor’s Office, and also the
location of that structure or improvement must comply with the County Surveyors
Office’s standards. The standard is a minimum vertical separation of 48 inches
above the top of the storm structure, or 48 inches below the invert/flow line
of all regulated drains. If running parallel to the regulated drain, the
standard is a minimum horizontal separation of ten feet from the centerline of
the tile/top of the bank, as determined by the County Surveyor. Exceptions to
these standards may be approved, as long as they do not adversely affect the
integrity of the drainage system, or violate the approved engineering design.
However, any relocation or exposure of structures, facilities, or utilities
shall be at the expense of the owner/applicant, and not the county. Exposing a
structure, facility, or utility, or its relocation, must be scheduled with a
completion date approved, within five days after receiving notice from the
County Surveyor’s Office and/or the County Drainage Board, excluding Saturdays,
Sundays, and holidays.
   (B)   Outlets.
      (1)   Any person, partnership, corporation, or any other entity seeking
to discharge any municipal, private, or mutual drains into a regulated drain
under the jurisdiction of the County Drainage Board shall make application to
the County Surveyor’s Office.
      (2)   All drainage outlets are to be in compliance with Title XV,
Chapter 152.
      (3)   For drainage outlets, the County Surveyor and/or the County
Drainage Board may require an applicant to provide a drainage narrative
analysis, and calculations to ensure compliance with Title XV,
Chapter 152.
      (4)   For drainage outlets, the County Surveyor and/or the County
Drainage Board may determine that the above-mentioned narrative analysis and
drainage calculations, in division (B)(3) above, need to be reviewed by an
outside engineering consultant. This review would be at the expense of the
applicant, per §
37.27.
      (5)   All applications shall be on forms provided by the County Surveyor
and shall meet the specifications set out herein. Such application shall
contain any plans, specifications, and any other information as deemed
necessary by the County Surveyor. Applications shall be signed by the owner of
record or his or her agent. If signed by the agent, it shall be noted as to the
agent’s capacity (for example, a contractor, realtor, engineer, attorney,
surveyor, and the like).
      (6)   Multiple outlets for the same drain may be included on the same
outlet request permit form if outlets occur on the same tax parcel. Multiple
outlets for the same drain on separate tax parcels shall require separate
outlet request permit forms. Multiple outlets occurring on the same tax parcel,
but for separate drains, shall require a separate outlet request form for each
drain involved. Each outlet shall be charged separately.
      (7)   A direct outlet shall be considered as any drainage facility
outletting directly into a regulated drain without utilizing a private or
mutual drain or municipal storm drainage facility, or natural or human-made
watercourse.
      (8)   The County Surveyor’s Office shall charge application fees to any
persons, partnership, corporation, or any other entity filing an application to
discharge private or mutual drains into a regulated drain under the
jurisdiction of the County Drainage Board, per §
37.27.
   (C)   Crossings.
      (1)   Any person, partnership, corporation, or any other entity seeking
to cross under, over, or through a regulated drain under the jurisdiction of
the County Drainage Board with any structure or improvement shall make
application to the County Surveyor’s Office.
      (2)   All applications shall be on forms provided by the County Surveyor,
and shall meet the requirements set out therein. Such application shall contain
any plans, specifications, and any other information as deemed necessary by the
County Surveyor. Applications shall be signed by the owner of record, or his or
her agent. If signed by the agent, it shall be noted as to the agent’s capacity
(for example, a contractor, realtor, engineer, attorney, surveyor, and the
like).
      (3)   The Surveyor’s Office standard for all crossings is a minimum
vertical separation of 48 inches above the top of the storm structure, or 48
inches below the invert/flow line of all regulated drains.
      (4)   Multiple crossings for the same drain may be included on the same
crossing request permit form if crossings occur on the same tax parcel.
Multiple crossings for the same drain on separate tax parcels shall require
separate crossing request permit forms. Multiple crossing occurring on the same
tax parcel, but for separate drains, shall require a separate crossing request
permit form for each drain involved. Each crossing shall be charged separately.
      (5)   Utility projects affecting multiple drains shall require separate
request forms for each drain affected. Utility projects affecting a single
drain, but multiple tax parcels, shall require a single request form.
      (6)   The County Surveyor’s Office shall charge application fees to any
person, partnership, corporation, or association who applies for authority to
cross under, over, or through a regulated drain under the jurisdiction of the
County Drainage Board with any structure or improvement, per §
37.27. The fee will be waived for utilities operating within a new subdivision.
A NEW SUBDIVISION refers to a development granted final approval by the County
Plan Commission within the last 24 months.
   (D)   Encroachment of an easement.
      (1)   Any persons, partnership, corporation, or any other entity seeking
to encroach within a regulated drainage easement with any structure,
landscaping, or other improvement must make application to the County
Surveyor’s Office, and shall gain approval by the County Drainage Board and/or
the County Surveyor for the proposed encroachment. Notice of all approved
encroachments shall be made of record with the County Drainage Board.
      (2)   Filing an application must precede any encroachment onto a
regulated county drainage easement. If approved by the County Drainage Board,
the Board will not enforce its regulated drainage easement beyond a specified
distance from the tile or open drain. However, if future work is required on
the regulated county drain, the county will not be responsible for damages to
any structure, landscaping, or other improvement made within the regulated
drainage easement.
      (3)   All applications shall be on forms provided by the County Surveyor
and shall meet the requirements set out therein. Such application shall contain
any plans, specifications, recorded deed, any easement agreements, and any
other information as deemed necessary by the County Surveyor. Applications
shall be signed by the owner of record.
      (4)   The Surveyor’s Office standard for all encroachments is a minimum
horizontal separation of ten feet from the centerline of the tile/top of bank
of all regulated drains, as determined by the County Surveyor.
      (5)   Multiple encroachment requests for the same drain may be included
on the same request form if encroachments occur on the same tax parcel.
Multiple encroachment requests for the same drain for separate tax parcels
shall require separate request forms. Multiple encroachment requests occurring
on the same tax parcel, but for separate drains shall require a separate
request form for each drain involved. Each request shall be charged separately
per the request form.
      (6)   Utility encroachment for projects affecting multiple drains shall
require separate request forms for each drain affected. Utility encroachment
for projects affecting a single drain, but multiple tax parcels, shall require
a single request form.
      (7)   The County Surveyor’s Office shall charge application fees to any
person, partnership, corporation, or association filing an application for an
encroachment agreement pursuant to I.C. 36-9-27-33, per §
37.27. These fees include the fee charged by the County Recorder for recording
the encroachment agreement. The fee will be waived for utilities operating
within a new subdivision. A new subdivision refers to a development granted
final approval by the County Plan Commission within the last 24 months.
   (E)   General requirements.
      (1)   No part of any filing fee for an outlet, crossing, or encroachment
shall be returnable to the applicant. All monies shall be payable to the County
Drainage Board. The County Surveyor’s Office shall maintain records of the fees
collected pursuant to this section. The fees collected under this section shall
be periodically remitted to the County Treasurer and shall be deposited in the
appropriate Regulated Drain Maintenance Fund. No application fee shall be
required to be paid by units of government for construction, maintenance, or
remodeling of any public facility.
      (2)   The fees outlined for outlets, crossings, and encroachments in this
section include application review, initial inspection, and one reinspection.
      (3)   Approvals received by the applicant from other agencies,
departments, or municipalities shall not constitute approval for outletting,
crossing, or encroachment by the County Surveyor or Drainage Board.
      (4)   Failure to comply with this section shall be subject to the County
Surveyor taking any one, or more, of the following actions:
         (a)   Posting of a stop-work order on the project;
         (b)   The procurement of an irrevocable letter of credit or cashier’s
check;
         (c)   A denial for further stormwater permits and/or approvals for the
subject project in non-compliance with this section; and/or
         (d)   All legal remedies including, but not limited to, injunctive
relief.
      (5)   The owner, developer, contractor, and/or utility shall provide
notification to the County Surveyor’s Office 72 hours prior to commencement of
any work, except in cases of an emergency. A stop-work order shall be issued by
the Surveyor’s Office for all projects which are proceeding without the
required notification of work.
      (6)   Once construction begins, the contractor shall be responsible for
notifying the County Surveyor’s Office of the following:
         (a)   If work is to be performed on weekends and/or holidays; or
         (b)   Before the stormwater structures are backfilled, no connection
or crossings of regulated drains shall be backfilled without an opportunity
being given to the County Surveyor’s Office for an inspection. Failure to
comply with this requirement shall result in the excavation of the connection,
crossing, or encroachment so as to provide inspection.
(Ord. 2001-28, passed 11-26-2013) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons who shall continue to violate any provision of §
50.01, 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3, or 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1 beyond the time limit provided in
the order shall be cited for said violation in a court having jurisdiction. The
violator or violators shall be punished by a fine as described in I.C. 16-20-1-
26. Each individual day that a violation is in existence may be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue to violate §
50.02, I.C. 14-25, I.C. 25-39, 312 I.A.C. 12, or 312 I.A.C. 13 beyond the time
limit provided in the order shall be cited for said violation in a court having
jurisdiction. Upon conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
violator, or violators, shall be punished by a fine of no more than $2,500,
plus attorney’s fees and court costs imposed. In addition to the foregoing,
civil penalties, which may include injunctive relief, may be imposed under
state law on any person who violates any provision of §
50.02.
   (D)   A person who violates §
50.04 commits a section violation. A fine of up to $5,000 may be entered
against a person, utility, or entity that commits a violation under §
50.04, and may be required to reimburse the county for reasonable attorney
fees. In addition to the fine, any damage to the regulated county drain
repaired by the county shall be billed directly to the individual, utility, or
entity. The relocation of any utility or obstruction will be at the expense of
the violator, and will meet county standards.
(Ord. 2001-28, passed 11-26-2001; Ord. 2013-05, passed 3-26-2013; Ord. 2016-37,
passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 2024-22, passed 6-25-2024; Ord. 2024-50, passed 12-10-
2024)
CHAPTER 51: WASTE, SANITATION
Section
   
51.01   Determination of waste load allocation
   
51.02   Regulating solid waste processing facilities; solid waste land disposal
facilities
   
51.03   Solid waste planning fee
§ 51.01 DETERMINATION OF WASTE LOAD ALLOCATION.
   (A)   Determination of EDU assessment. Equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) shall
be the unit of measurement of quantities of service, and shall be equivalent to
310 gallons per day, and shall be allocated in whole numbers of one or more, by
rounding the number up (0.50 or greater) or down (0.49 or less).
   (B)   Commercial service connection. 327 I.A.C. 3-6-11, Table 11-1 (located
in division (G) below), shall be used to determine the equivalent dwelling unit
(s) (EDU) of a wasteland allocation for each commercial service connection
description listed in Table 11-1 (located in division (G) below) that will
utilize the County Regional Sewer District sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   Warehouse service connection.
      (1)   WAREHOUSE shall be defined as a building whose primary purpose is
the storage of goods or materials for distribution. The transferal of goods and
materials between shipping containers and/or vehicles, and a small component of
office activity to support these warehousing activities, would be included in
the definition. Manufacturing, assembly, fabrication, product preparation,
service work, and retail sales would not be considered warehousing functions.
      (2)   The wasteload allocation calculation to be applied to each building
of a proposed complex individually would be based on the following flow
factors:
 
Gross Area of Warehouse (sq. ft.) Flow Calculation Factor (gal/day/sq. ft)
0 to 35,000                       0.033
35,001 to 75,000                  0.028
75,001 to 150,000                 0.023
150,001 to 300,000                0.014
300,001 to 500,000                0.011
>500,000                          0.009
 
   (D)   Residential service connection. 327 I.A.C. 3-6-11(a) shall be used to
determine the residential service connection for a single-family home that will
utilize the County Regional Sewer District sanitary sewer system.
   (E)   All other uses. For any commercial use not specified in the table in
division (G) below, with the exception of warehouse use as defined in division
(C) above, the assessment will be determined by calculating 0.1 gallons of flow
per day, per square foot of floor space. Flow data from previous and/or like
facilities will not be considered for determining the equivalent dwelling units
(EDU) of a wasteload allocation.
   (F)   Assessment-connection fees. The EDU assessment connection fees for new
construction must be paid in full prior to a building permit being obtained
from the appropriate governmental entity. The EDU assessment-connection fees
for existing structures connecting to the sanitary sewer must be paid in full
prior to installation of the lateral connection.
   (G)   Flow calculation facts (FCF). The following flow calculations, as seen
in Table 11-1 in 327 I.A.C. 3-6-11, and in this division (G), shall be used in
calculations to determine the EDU assessment for commercial uses.
Service Connection Description FCF (gallons per day)
Service Connection Description          FCF (gallons per day)
Agricultural labor camp                 50 per occupant
Airport                                 3 per passenger, plus 20 per employee
Assembly hall                           3 per seat
Athletic field (baseball, football,     1 per participant and spectator, with
soccer)                                 additions for concessions
Auction and flea market (full kitchen)  5 per customer
Auction and flea market (warming        4 per customer
kitchen)
Auction and flea market (without        3 per customer
kitchen)
Automatic self-cleaning bathroom        20 per cycle (3 per day)
Banquet caterer                         10 per person
Beauty salon (cut with wash)            10 per customer
Beauty salon (cut without wash)         5 per customer
Beauty salon (perm, color changes)      35 per customer
Bed and breakfast                       150 per bedroom
Bowling alley (with bar and/or food)    125 per lane
Bowling alley (without food)            75 per lane
Bus station                             3 per passenger
Campground (organizational; with flush  40 per camper
toilets, showers, central kitchen)
Campground (organizational; without
flush toilets, privy use, central       20 per camper
dining hall, showers, handwashing)
Campground (recreational; with          100 per campsite
individual sewer connection)
Campground (recreational; without       50 per campsite
individual sewer connection)
Church (full kitchen)                   5 per sanctuary seat
Church (warming kitchen)                4 per sanctuary seat
Church (without kitchen)                3 per sanctuary seat
Condominium (multi-family dwelling,     350 per unit
three bedroom)
Condominium (multi-family dwelling, two 300 per unit
bedroom)
Condominium (one- and two-family        150 per bedroom
dwelling)
Conferences                             10 per attendee
Correctional facilities                 120 per inmate
Day care center                         20 per person
Dentist                                 200 per chair, plus 75 per employee
Doctor’s office                       75 per doctor, plus 75 per nurse and 20
                                        per support staff
Factory (showers)                       35 per employee
Factory (without showers)               20 per employee
Fire station (manned)                   75 per firefighter
Fire station (unmanned)                 35 per firefighter
Food service operations (cocktail       35 per seat
lounge, tavern)
Food service operations (curb service,  50 per car space
drive-in)
Food service operations (tavern)        35 per seat
Food service operations restaurant (not 35 per seat
open 24 hours)
Food service operations restaurant (not
open 24 hours, but located along an     50 per seat
interstate)
Food service operations restaurant      50 per seat
(open 24 hours)
Food service operations restaurant
(open 24 hours, and located along an    70 per seat
interstate)
Golf, comfort station                   3 per 50% of maximum number of golfers
Golf, main clubhouse                    5 per golfer with additions for food
                                        service and showers
Hospital, medical facility              200 per bed
Hotel                                   100 per room
Kennels and vet clinics (sum of all of   
the following services at a facility):
1.   Cages; inside runs; outside runs5 per cage; 10 per run; 20 per run
2.   Grooming; surgery               10 per animal; 50 per surgery room
                                        75 per veterinary doctor, plus 75 per
3.   Staff                           veterinary assistant, plus 20 per
                                        support staff
Mental health facility                  100 per patient
Mobile home park                        200 per lot
Motel                                   100 per room
Nursing home                            100 per bed
Office building (showers)               35 per employee
Office building (without showers)       20 per employee
Picnic area                             5 per visitor
Race tracks                             5 per attendee, 20 per staff
School (dormitory)                      100 per bed
School (elementary)                     15 per pupil
School (secondary)                      25 per pupil
Service station (automatic self-        60 per day
cleaning bathroom)
Service station (convenience store,     1,000 with additions for food
service center)                         preparation and seating
Service station (only two restrooms)    400 per restroom
Shopping center                         0.1 per square foot of floor space,
                                        plus 20 per employee
Swimming pool bathhouse                 10 per swimmer
Theater (drive-in)                      5 per car space
Theater (inside building)               5 per seat
 
   (H)   Determination of monthly sanitary sewer service fee. The monthly
sanitary sewer service fee shall be based on the EDU assessment with each EDU
being assessed the monthly service fee, as determined by §
50.03.
   (I)   Modification of monthly sanitary sewer service fee.
      (1)   Any assessment of an EDU used to determine the monthly sanitary
sewer service fee for an industrial or business customer may be modified,
upward or downward, by the Board of Trustees during the first year of sanitary
sewer service upon the request of the customer, or as initiated by the District
based on the findings of a determination of the actual service being provided.
The actual service being provided shall be determined based upon flow meter
data collected from the customer’s facility with the customer responsible for
any expense incurred to monitor flow.
      (2)   The first year of service shall be defined as the first year
following the initiation of trade in any buildings, pads, or storefronts. Flow
meter data shall consist of actual water meter readings as documented by the
applicable water utility’s invoices or sewage flow meter readings. Flow meter
data of estimated water meter readings will not be accepted to determine a
modification of the monthly service charge. Upon review of the water meter
readings and/or sewage flow meter readings by the Board of Trustees, it will be
determined if a modification of the monthly sanitary sewer service fee is
warranted; however, the minimum monthly sanitary
sewer service fee shall be one EDU. If a modification is warranted, the monthly
sanitary sewer service fee shall be adjusted on the next billing cycle, and
will not be retroactive to any previous month’s service fees. Payment and
collection of the adjusted monthly sanitary sewer service fee shall be in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the County Regional Sewer
District.
      (3)   The County Regional Sewer District reserves its right, as allowed
by the rules and regulations and ordinances, to adjust the monthly service fee
and/or wasteload allocation in response to a future increase or decrease in
wastewater flow.
      (4)   Any modification of the monthly sanitary sewer service fee shall
apply only to the facility and facility usage, as documented by the applicable
water utility’s invoices or sewage flow meter readings used to determine the
modification. Any structural change of the facility or its use shall render the
monthly sanitary sewer service fee modification null and void, and a new EDU
assessment shall be determined as set out in the County Regional Sewer District
Rules and Regulations.
      (5)   Any reduction of the monthly sanitary sewer service fee will not
warrant reimbursement for previously paid EDU connect-assessment fees or result
in a decrease of the wasteload allocation.
(Ord. 2005-41, passed 11-15-2005)
§ 51.02 REGULATING SOLID WASTE PROCESSING FACILITIES; SOLID WASTE LAND DISPOSAL
FACILITIES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The same meaning as local Health Officer in I.C. 16-18-2-
212 and I.C. 16-20.
   (B)   Compliance. The owner of, and/or operator of, any solid waste
processing facility or solid waste land disposal facility located in the county
shall operate the facility in compliance with the terms and conditions
contained in this section.
   (C)   Permitting system.
      (1)   The county will regulate solid waste land disposal facilities by
establishing a permitting system for enforcing these standards set forth on,
amended to, and incorporated by reference from the following sections of 329
I.A.C. 10:
         (a)   Rule 1, “General Provisions”;
         (b)   Rule 2, “Definitions”;
         (c)   Rule 3, “Exclusions”;
         (d)   Rule 20, “Municipal Solid Waste Landfills; Operational
Requirements”;
         (e)   Rule 22, “Municipal Solid Waste Landfills; Closure
Requirements”; and
         (f)   Rule 23, “Municipal Solid Waste Landfills; Post-Closure
Requirements”.
      (2)   The county will regulate Solid Waste Processing Facilities by
establishing a permitting system for enforcing these standards set forth on,
amended to, and incorporated by reference from the following sections of 329
I.A.C. 11:
         (a)   Rule 1, “General Provisions”;
         (b)   Rule 2, “Definitions”;
         (c)   Rule 3, “Exclusions”;
         (d)   Rule 13, “Solid Waste Processing Facilities; Operational
Requirements”; and
         (e)   Rule 21, “Transfer Stations”.
      (3)   The incorporated materials are available for public review at the
office of the County Health Department.
      (4)   Where exceptions (exclusions) to incorporated state rules are
necessary, these exceptions will be noted in the text of this section.
      (5)   The incorporation of state regulations as a county ordinance does
not negate the requirement to comply with state regulations which may be
effective in the county which are not incorporated in this section, or are
retained as state authority.
      (6)   Exceptions (or exclusions) are as follows:
I.A.C. Reference Title
I.A.C. Reference         Title
329 I.A.C. 10-1-5        Variances
329 I.A.C. 10-3-l(5)     Segregated wastes
329 I.A.C. 10-20-11      Surface water run-on and run-off control
329 I.A.C. 10-20-12      Erosion and sedimentation control
329 I.A.C. 10-22-6       Final cover requirements (new)
329 I.A.C. 10-22-7       Final cover requirements (existing)
329 I.A.C. 10-23-3(c)(5) Post closure cost estimate leachate table
329 I.A.C. 11-1-4        Variances
329 I.A.C. 11-3-1(5)     Segregated wastes
329 I.A.C. 11-13.5-11    Inspections and recovery of costs
 
      (7)   Amendments have been made for the following I.A.C. references:
         (a)   For 329 I.A.C. 10-1-3, amended to read “Sec. 3 Penalties for
violation of this ordinance shall be governed by I.C. 13-14 and I.C. 13-30”;
and
         (b)   For 329 I.A.C. 10-20-4(b), amended to read “(b) Cattle, hogs,
poultry, or other livestock are prohibited from any filled area”.
   (D)   Technical criteria, regulatory compliance. Except as otherwise
provided in this section, any solid waste processing facility (S.W.P.F.) or
solid waste land disposal facility (S.W.L.D.F.) located in the county shall be
operated in compliance with technical criteria and regulatory compliance set
out in 329 I.A.C. 10 and 11, and I.C. 13-20.
   (E)   Permit obtainment. The owner and/or operator of any S.W.P.F. or
S.W.L.D.F. required to obtain an operating permit pursuant to 329 I.A.C. 10 and
329 I.A.C. 11 shall also be required to obtain a permit to operate in the
county.
   (F)   Permit application.
      (1)   Application for a local permit must be made at least 30 days prior
to the initial date of operation or permit expiration. Applicants must submit
copies of all applicable federal, state, and local permits and approvals with
the Health Department application. The applicant shall be required to file a
duplicate form of the application, and copy of all plans and specifications by
the state required under 329 I.A.C. 10 and 329 I.A.C. 11 with the County Health
Department (H.C.H.D.).
      (2)   Application must be made on forms provided by the County Health
Department. Local operating permits shall be issued annually. Owners and/or
operators of S.W.P.F. and S.W.L.D.F. located in the county which have I.D.E.M.
operating permits on the effective date of this section will be presumed to be
in compliance with the terms of this section and will be issued a local permit
by the H.C.H.D. upon payment of the annual fee.
   (G)   Annual permit fee. An annual permit fee shall be required for each
S.W.P.F. and S.W.L.D.F. If a site contains more than one type of solid waste
facility, then a separate permit will be required for each facility.
   (H)   Permit fee. The permit fee will be set in the fee schedule overseeing
the collection of fees. The annual fee is specified in the County Ordinance for
the Collection of Fees. The county reserves the right to waive permit fees for
publicly-owned and operated facilities.
   (I)   Reports. It shall be the responsibility of the facility owner and/or
operator to submit to the County Health Department the following reports, if
applicable:
      (1)   Quarterly waste disposal summary reports;
      (2)   Groundwater monitoring well sample reports;
      (3)   Stream sample reports;
      (4)   Leachate recirculation reports, or other reports and notifications
required by the I.D.E.M.; and
      (5)   Reports requested by the H.C.H.D., or any other county, state, or
federal department or agency.
   (J)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the County Health Officer to
enforce this section. The Health Officer is authorized by the permittee to
perform any activities that, in the Health Officer’s opinion, are required to
enforce this section. These activities may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Inspections;
      (2)   Copying and reviewing documentation;
      (3)   Obtaining solid waste samples;
      (4)   Obtaining ground water samples;
      (5)   Obtaining surface water samples;
      (6)   Inspecting and sampling loads;
      (7)   Monitoring activities; and
      (8)   Other duties.
   (K)   Violators. Violators of this section shall be served a written initial
notice of violation, whether in person or by any other manner reasonably
decided to result in actual notice, including certified mail.
      (1)   Such order shall state the violation, order the abatement of the
violation, and provide a reasonable time for the abatement.
      (2)   If the violation is not satisfactorily abated within the specified
time, a second notice of violation shall be served in the same manner as
specified for initial notices in division (K)(1) above, and containing the same
information as specified for the initial notice of violation. If the conditions
continue following the specified period of time, the matter shall be referred
to the attorney for the County Health Department for appropriate legal action
and possible revocation or modification of the permit, as specified in division
(L) below.
   (L)   Permit revocation.
      (1)   Any permit granted by the H.C.H.D. may be revoked or modified by
the Health Department for any of the following causes:
         (a)   Violation of any condition of the permit;
         (b)   Failure to disclose all of the relevant facts, or any
misrepresentation made in obtaining the permit; and/or
         (c)   Any change, situation, or activity relating to the use of the
permit, which in the opinion of the Health Officer is not consistent with the
purpose of this section.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the revocation or modification of a permit
may appeal the revocation or modification to the County Board of Health as the
appropriate board for an administrative review under I.C. 4-21.5-3, which
Administrative Adjudication Act is hereby adopted by reference.
      (3)   Pending the decision resulting from the hearing under I.C. 4-21.5-
3 concerning the permit revocation or modification, the permit shall remain in
force. However, the H.C.H.D. may seek such injunctive relief in regard to the
activity described in the permit while the decision resulting from the hearing
is pending.
(Ord. 1998-12A, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 51.03 SOLID WASTE PLANNING FEE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The County Board of Commissioners.
      COUNTY AUDITOR. The Auditor of the county.
      FINAL DISPOSAL FACILITY. The meaning prescribed in I.C. 13-11-2-82.
      SOLID WASTE. The meaning prescribed in I.C. 13-11-2-205.
   (B)   Planning fee. A county solid waste planning fee is imposed at the rate
of $0.25 per ton on each ton of solid waste disposed of at a final disposal
facility in the county.
   (C)   Collection of fee. The owner or operator of a final disposal facility
located in the county is responsible for collecting the county solid waste
planning fee imposed under division (B) above from persons delivering solid
waste to the final disposal facility. The disposal facility owner or operator
may deduct an amount equal to 1% of the fees collected, and may retain this
amount as compensation for collecting and remitting the fees.
   (D)   Remittance to County Auditor. The remainder of the fees collected each
month under division (C) above shall be remitted to the County Auditor within
ten days after the last day of the month in which the fees are collected.
   (E)   Records. The owner or operator of a final disposal facility shall make
necessary records available to an employee designated by the Board of
Commissioners for the purpose of verifying the amount of solid waste disposed
of, and the amount of fees being collected and remitted to the County Auditor.
   (F)   Conversion of volume of solid waste. The owner or operator of a final
disposal facility that does not have a scale suitable for solid waste may
determine the weight of the solid waste by conversion from the volume of the
solid waste. In making this conversion, an owner or operator shall use the
following conversion factors:
      (1)   Three and three-tenths cubic yards of compacted solid waste equals
one ton of solid waste; and
      (2)   Six cubic yards of uncompacted solid waste equals one ton of solid
waste.
   (G)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The fee imposed under division (B) above does not apply to solid
waste that is received at a final disposal facility pursuant to a contract
entered into before January 1, 1990, unless the contract contains a pass-
through provision by which the transporter of the solid waste may recover the
fees from the transporter’s client.
         (a)   Any solid waste for which an exemption under this section is
sought must be identified as to the particular contract which does not contain
the pass-through provision.
         (b)   A copy of any contract for which the owner or operator of a
final disposal facility desires to claim an exemption under this section must
be filed with the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The fee imposed under division (B) above does not apply to solid
waste disposed of at a final disposal facility by a person that:
         (a)   Generated the solid waste; and
         (b)   Disposes of the solid waste at a final disposal facility that is
owned by that person and is limited, for the purposes of the disposal of solid
waste, to be used by that person for the disposal of solid waste generated by
that person.
   (H)   The County Solid Waste Planning Fund.
      (1)   The County Auditor shall establish a fund to be known as the County
Solid Waste Planning Fund. The Fund shall be administered in the same manner as
all other county funds.
      (2)   Money in the Fund may be used only for the following purposes:
         (a)   To pay expenses of administering the Fund; and
         (b)   To pay costs associated with the development of a district solid
waste management plan, including costs to develop information to enable the
county to determine whether its plan should be prepared for a county or joint
solid waste district.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 1-14-1991)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAVEL ADVISORIES; EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   [Reserved]
   
70.02   Weight restriction of vehicles upon county highways
   
70.03   Speed limits on all county roads
   
70.04   Off-road vehicles
Construction in Rights-of-Way
   
70.15   Scope
   
70.16   Authority
   
70.17   Definitions
   
70.18   Cost, ownership, and maintenance of improvements
   
70.19   General right-of-way standards for improvements
   
70.20   Emergencies
   
70.21   Forms, specifications, and details
   
70.22   Application for permit
   
70.23   Permit fees
   
70.24   Schedule of fees
   
70.25   Bonds
   
70.26   Schedule of bonds
   
70.27   General permit conditions
   
70.28   Permit review and issuance
   
70.29   Permit term and extensions
   
70.30   Installation, inspection and approval
   
70.31   Non-compliance
   
70.32   Non-conformity
   
70.33   Violations
   
70.34   Other permits
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 [RESERVED].
§ 70.02 WEIGHT RESTRICTION OF VEHICLES UPON COUNTY HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COUNTY HIGHWAY. Any public roadway now, or hereafter, coming under the
jurisdiction and control of the County Highway Department and County Road
Superintendent.
      PERIOD OF POTENTIAL HAZARD AND DETERIORATION. A period of time not to
exceed 60 days during the late winter and early spring of the year when, due to
increased temperatures, the thawing of the ground, and the melting of snow and
ice, the road surfaces and underlying ground are in the process of thawing and
are unstable, and there is an extreme potential for hazard, deterioration, and
destruction of the road surface.
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is, or
may be, transported and drawn upon a county highway.
   (B)   Violation. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation,
for any reason, to operate or control, upon or across, or over, any county
highway, or county road, any vehicle having a total gross weight in excess of
10,000 pounds for single axle, and 20,000 pounds for duel axle, during any
period of potential hazard and deterioration.
   (C)   Administration.
      (1)   The County Engineer and the County Road Superintendent shall, each
year, determine the period of potential hazard and deterioration based upon
their investigation and inspection of county roads in light of current weather
conditions.
      (2)   The County Engineer and the County Road Superintendent shall, upon
determining the period of potential hazard and deterioration, cause a report of
their findings and the specific dates determining the period, to be filed with
the County Board of Commissioners and the County Auditor.
      (3)   (a)   Upon receipt of the report of the County Engineer and County
Road Superintendent, and acceptance and approval of said report by the County
Board of Commissioners, the County Auditor shall cause to be published in the
newspaper of general circulation within the county, a notice, complying with
the requirements of division (D) below. Copies of the notice shall also be
directed to all law enforcement agencies operating within, and for, the county.
         (b)   The County Auditor shall further maintain lists of all persons,
firms, and corporations who regularly operate vehicles in excess of 20,000
pounds upon county highways. These persons, firms, or corporations shall
receive a separate notice, in writing, of the determination of the period of
potential hazard and deterioration, said notice to be provided when the
foregoing have caused their names to be placed upon the list maintained by the
County Auditor.
   (D)   Notice. Notice required in the foregoing section shall comply with
this section and contain the following:
      (1)   The notice shall specifically designate the date upon which the
period of potential hazard and deterioration begins, the period (not to exceed
60 days) which it will continue, and the date upon which it will expire.
      (2)   The notice shall state the findings contained in the report of the
County Engineer and County Road Superintendent, their recommendations to the
Board of Commissioners, and the Board’s acceptance and approval of the report.
      (3)   The notice shall then state that vehicular traffic in excess of
20,000 pounds gross weight is prohibited from being operated or moved over,
upon, or across all county highways and roads during the period of potential
hazard and deterioration.
      (4)   The notice shall also set forth the penalty for violation of this
section as set forth in §
70.99.
   (E)   Closed roads. The County Engineer and the County Road Superintendent
may also, at any time upon investigation and inspection of county highways,
report to the Board of Commissioners, as set forth in division (C) above, that
certain roads, or portions of roads, in the county to be extremely hazardous to
the health and safety of those citizens using the roads, and recommend that
these roads be closed to vehicular traffic. Upon receipt of said report and
acceptance of the recommendation therein, the Board of Commissioners may order,
and declare, those roads therein designated to be closed, and that barricades
and warnings be erected as are necessary to limit said traffic. In the event of
road closings under this section, the roads may be closed immediately, and
notice published as set forth in division (D) above following the erection of
signs and barricades and warnings.
   (F)   Disclaimer of liability. This section does not certify as to the
safety of travel upon county highways and roads by vehicular traffic of any
weight, in all weather conditions, under all other relevant circumstances when
the limitations and/or closings are not in effect. This section shall not
create any liability on the part of the county, or any officer or employee
thereof, for any damages that result of vehicular traffic upon any county
highway or road that results from reliance on this section, or administrative
decision thoughtfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 1979 6, passed 3-5-1979) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SPEED LIMITS ON ALL COUNTY ROADS.
   Unless heretofore, or hereafter, legally ordained otherwise with respect to
any specific section of the county roads, and unless any said specific section
of county roads have, pursuant to such ordinance, been specifically posted with
respect to the speed limit thereof otherwise, no person shall drive a vehicle
on any county road outside an urban district at a speed greater than 50 mph.
(Ord. 1971-1, passed 1-18-1971) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLE.
         (a)   Per the definition contained in I.C. 14-8-2-185, a motor driven
vehicle capable of cross country travel:
            1.   Without benefit of a road or trail; and
            2.   On or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh,
swampland, or other natural terrain.
         (b)   The term includes the following:
            1.   A multi-wheel drive or low-pressure tire vehicle;
            2.   An amphibious machine;
            3.   A ground- effect air cushion vehicle;
            4.   An all-terrain vehicle (as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-5.7);
            5.   A recreational off-highway vehicle (as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-
223.5); or
            6.   Other means of transportation deriving motive from a source
other than muscle or wind.
         (c)   The term does not include the following:
            1.   Any vehicle including an OFF-ROAD VEHICLE being used for
agricultural purposes;
            2.   A vehicle being used for military or law enforcement purposes;
            3.   A construction, mining, or other industrial-related vehicle
used in performance of the vehicle’s common function;
            4.   A snowmobile;
            5.   A registered aircraft;
            6.   Any other vehicle properly registered by the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles;
            7.   Any watercraft that is registered under state statutes; or
            8.   A golf cart vehicle.
         (d)   In addition, the term does not include any vehicle including an
OFF-ROAD VEHICLE that is being used by a person suffering from a handicap or
disability if the handicapped or disabled person is using the vehicle as a
necessary means of transportation.
   (B)   Provisions.
      (1)   An individual may operate an off-road vehicle on a county road or
right-of-way only if:
         (a)   The individual is at least 18 years old;
         (b)   The individual’s driving privileges are not currently suspended
by any state;
         (c)   The individual has proof of liability insurance in at least the
minimum amount required by the state;
         (d)   The off-road vehicle is properly registered and displays any
plates or decals required by state law; and
         (e)   The off-road vehicle meets all equipment requirements under
state law.
      (2)   In addition, an individual may operate an off-road vehicle:
         (a)   To cross a county road or right of way at right angles for the
purpose of getting from one area to another when the operation can be done in
safety;
         (b)   As authorized by a law enforcement officer on the county road or
right- of-way during emergencies; or
         (c)   On a county road or right-of-way for a special event if a
prearranged schedule has been approved by the appropriate county law
enforcement agency.
      (3)   Any individual operating an off-road vehicle on a county road or
right-of-way shall operate the vehicle at a reasonable and safe speed and obey
all traffic rules of the state and the county.
      (4)   Due to the traffic flow and patterns, this section shall apply to
the rural townships within the county. Further, due to their urban nature,
Brown, Lincoln, Washington, and Guilford Townships shall be exempt from the
authority granted herein.
(Ord. 2020-52, passed 12-22-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
CONSTRUCTION IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 70.15 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the construction,
relocation, alteration, or change in the character or use of improvements in
the rights-of-way of the county highway system and the maintenance of such
improvements, which are not otherwise governed under the county ordinances.
   (B)   Improvements, for the purposes of this subchapter, include, but are
not limited to:
      (1)   Entrances, driveways, or drive approaches;
      (2)   Mailbox approaches;
      (3)   Culvert or roadside ditch modifications necessitated for other
improvements;
      (4)   Sidewalks, pathways, trails, or multi-use paths; and
      (5)   Public utility infrastructure.
   (C)   Improvements, as defined by this subchapter, shall not include:
      (1)   Infrastructure made under contract with or by order of the Board of
Commissioners or other governmental agency through its proper officials.
      (2)   Surfacing or resurfacing of a paved improvement provided it does
not change drainage flows and does not expand the width of the existing
improvement.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct
improvements in the rights-of-way of the county highway system without first
obtaining a permit in accordance with this subchapter.
   (E)   Any work completed as emergency work which does not meet the
definition of emergency as set out in §
70.17 is a violation of this subchapter.
   (F)   The County Engineer shall have the authority to issue stop work orders
for any violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.16 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Hendricks County Engineer, as defined by I.C. 8-17-5, is hereby
authorized to approve and issue permits for all improvements under this
subchapter.
   (B)   The County Engineer shall have the authority to:
      (1)   Execute permits and related documents, including permits,
agreements and other documents approved by the Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   Perform inspections;
      (3)   Administer the terms of permits and encroachment agreements;
      (4)   Order or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
subchapter, including issuance of stop work orders;
      (5)   Approve the completion and acceptance of work under a permit; and
      (6)   Perform all other actions necessary for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (C)   The County Engineer may delegate his or her authority under this
section to other county employees as needed to meet the intent of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.17 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply only to this subchapter.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVE. Any driveway serving a property zoned commercial, serving
a business or place otherwise open to the public, or providing access to an
occupied utility facility. COMMERCIAL DRIVES are categorized as follows:
      (1)   MINOR COMMERCIAL DRIVE. Any commercial drive having or requiring
acceleration and deceleration tapers, but not having or requiring associated
auxiliary lanes except a mailbox approach.
      (2)   MAJOR COMMERCIAL DRIVE. Any commercial drive having or requiring
associated full-width auxiliary lanes with acceleration and deceleration
tapers.
   CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT. Backhoes, loaders, bulldozers, graders, excavators,
trenchers, dump trucks, compactors, cranes, forklifts, pavers, milling
machines, boring machines, heavy equipment transport trucks, and related heavy
construction equipment. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT does not include agricultural
equipment or construction-type equipment typically used in agricultural
activities.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. The Hendricks County Engineer or their designee.
   EMERGENCY. A situation where there is an immediate need to perform repair
work on an existing utility infrastructure that has been interrupted or damaged
and where the failure to perform such work would result in an immediate danger
to life or property or cause environmental damage.
   FIELD ENTRANCE. A drive (paved, gravel or dirt) which is installed only for
access to an agricultural field or solely for farm use. Any drive installed to
serve an agricultural or farm business which is open to the public shall be
considered and permitted as a commercial drive.
   HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT. Any employee or designated subcontractor of the county
Highway Department or county Engineering Department.
   OVERHEAD LINEAR PROJECT. Overhead infrastructure and its related
construction that is installed substantially parallel to the right-of-way.
   PRIVATE LINEAR UTILITY. Privately owned infrastructure providing a product
or service to one or a small number of properties that is installed
substantially parallel to the right-of-way.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A business organization providing a product or service
regarded as a utility (often termed a public utility regardless of ownership)
and managed as a private enterprise or utility cooperative.
   RESIDENTIAL DRIVE. A driveway serving a private property zoned residential
and serving one or two single-family dwellings or one two-family dwelling unit
on a single property.
   UNDERGROUND LINEAR PROJECT. Underground infrastructure and its related
construction that is installed substantially parallel to the right-of-way,
including open ditching, grading, trenching, excavation, directional drilling
or boring.
   UTILITY PULL OFF DRIVE. A drive serving only as access to a normally
unmanned utility facility where occasional maintenance or facility observation
is required.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.18 COST, OWNERSHIP, AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Permittee/owner shall own and be responsible for the cost of
construction, materials, and installation of improvements in the right-of-way.
   (B)   The permittee shall save harmless and indemnify the Board from any
claim for damages of any nature whatsoever arising out of the permittee’s
negligence in connection with any work done pursuant to the agreement or in
connection with the operation of the utility or improvement.
   (C)   The maintenance of improvements will remain the responsibility of the
property owner and/or permittee and must be maintained in a manner which does
not interfere with the use of the right-of-way for its dedicated purpose.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.19 GENERAL RIGHT-OF-WAY STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following general right-of-way standards, in conjunction with the right-
of-way standard drawings, shall be applicable for all improvements in the
county highway system rights-of-way.
   (A)   Driveways shall be placed in a location which, in the County
Engineer’s opinion, minimizes the opportunity for accidents, taking into
consideration the following:
      (1)   Sight distances on the existing county highway, including curves,
trees, brush and other obstructions, and topography;
      (2)   The distance to other driveways and intersections;
      (3)   Drainage; and
      (4)   Planned improvements to the county highway or surrounding
properties or thoroughfares.
   (B)   Multiple residential drives serving a single parcel must meet minimum
separation between drives based on the county highway classification and
accepted engineering design standards.
   (C)   A residential drive permit may be issued for a single drive serving
more than one property, provided that all property owners served by the
driveway have entered into a recorded agreement providing for a mutual easement
for ingress and egress, maintenance and repair of the drive, and a covenant
provision that the county will never be responsible for the maintenance of the
mutual driveway and that the mutual drive will never be considered a public
road necessitating maintenance by any unit of government.
   (D)   Improvements, such as public utilities or developer-installed storm
sewer pipes requiring a subsurface crossing of a county highway, shall be
installed by boring or pushing the utility beneath the county highway. This
requirement may be waived and the improvement installed by open cut methods at
the discretion of the County Engineer under the following conditions:
      (1)   Where the county highway pavement is scheduled for rehabilitation
within the following year; or
      (2)   Where the existing condition of the county highway surface upon
restoration of such construction will be preserved or improved and that no long
term deterioration will result from the construction;
      (3)   Where disruption to the traffic utilizing the county highway will
be minimal.
   (E)   The county promotes and encourages co-location of utilities whenever
possible, and as a general rule will not permit multiple pole lines on the same
road segment.
   (F)   Traffic will be maintained at all times during construction of
improvements unless a county highway closure and detour plan is approved by the
County Engineer. The detour will be marked at least one week prior to the
closure and maintained by permittee throughout the period of the closure.
Permittee shall provide ten days’ prior notification to all appropriate public
safety agencies of the time and location of file closure.
   (G)   Permittee shall provide traffic control devices and flaggers as set
out in the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and as required by
the County Engineer to regulate traffic safety if construction affects the flow
of traffic or the safety of the public. Such devices shall be provided in paved
right-of-way and on other county highways as determined by the County Engineer
prior to work in the right-of-way until completion of the work. In general,
traffic control devices shall be provided during the times required by the
County Engineer where:
      (1)   Pavement is being removed or installed;
      (2)   Temporary pavement or surface patches exist;
      (3)   Construction equipment is conducting construction activities in the
right-of-way;
      (4)   Excavations are occurring within the right-of-way or are less than
five feet away from the edge of pavement; or
      (5)   The number or width of travel lanes is reduced, the travel lane(s)
jog, or travel lane(s) switch.
   (H)   Where open trench construction occurs, temporary patches may be
constructed and maintained by the permit holder in a smooth and safe condition
acceptable to the County Engineer until a permanent repair is accomplished. Use
of temporary patching shall not exceed 30 days, an extension beyond the 30- day
requirement may be granted by the County Engineer upon request with
justification by the permittee. Open trench construction shall utilize
cementitious flowable backfill in accordance with Indiana Department of
Transportation Standard Specifications within the right-of-way.
   (I)   All pavement damaged during any activity related to the subject
improvement shall be restored to a smooth, permanent surface meeting county
standards. Aggregate and chip-and-seal surfaces shall be restored in
conformance with county standards.
   (J)   All sod, swales, side ditches, shoulders, culverts, and other
improvements within the right-of-way which are disturbed by any work or
construction within the right-of-way shall be repaired or replaced in a
condition equal to or better than they were prior to the work or construction,
as approved by the County Engineer. Materials used in the repair of any
disturbed area and the method used to make the repairs shall be approved by the
County Engineer and shall generally meet INDOT standards and specifications.
Permittee shall be responsible for providing evidence of existing conditions
prior to the work in any dispute related to those conditions.
   (K)   Anyone who cuts or damages an underground tile, storm sewer pipe or
culvert pipe in the right-of-way, whether it appears abandoned or not, shall
notify the County Engineer immediately upon discovery of the damage. The person
cutting the tile or pipe shall repair the damaged tile or pipe to the
satisfaction of the County Engineer and, if the tile or pipe is a regulated
drain, to the satisfaction of the County Surveyor.
   (L)   The permittee shall construct and maintain appropriate erosion control
measures during and after construction.
   (M)   Any pipe placed in the roadside ditch shall have a minimum diameter of
15 inches.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.20 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event of an emergency, utility repairs may be undertaken
without first receiving a permit. However, in a utility emergency, the utility
must notify the County Engineer as soon as possible, but in no case later than
24 hours after initiation of such repairs in the right-of-way. Notification
during non-work hours may be made by fax or e-mail.
   (B)   All repairs conducted under an emergency shall be done in a safe
manner generally meeting county and INDOT maintenance of traffic standards.
Final repairs shall comply with county standards.
   (C)   An application for a permit and the associated fee must be filed with
the County Engineer within 72 hours of the time the work is begun under an
emergency.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.21 FORMS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND DETAILS.
   The County Engineer is hereby authorized to adopt and revise standard permit
and other forms, construction details, and technical specifications applicable
to the construction or improvements in the rights-of-way. Current details and
specifications will be made available to applicants.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.22 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, public utility, or corporation desiring to construct
an improvement, or to alter, change or modify an existing structure in the
right-of-way of the county highway system shall make application for a permit
to the County Engineer on the forms provided, accompanied by the required
information and fees, either online or in person.
   (B)   Where applicable, the owner of record of the property to be served by
an improvement shall certify as to ownership and, if not the applicant,
authorize the application.
   (C)   The County Engineer shall not accept incomplete applications, or
applications not accompanied by the required fees unless prior payment
arrangements have been made.
   (D)   An application accepted as complete may be revised by applicant to
address review comments by the County Engineer. Such revised application shall
not be considered a new application for the purposes of this subchapter.
   (E)   Any application for which a permit is not issued or which the
applicant is not actively pursuing resolution of review comments shall be
considered abandoned by the applicant 90 days after the date of the last
interaction between the applicant and the County Engineer related to the
application.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.23 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Applicant shall pay a permit fee to the County Engineer with the
application for permit for all improvements in the county highway system right-
of-way. This permit fee shall provide for the review, permit issuance, and
inspection of the improvements.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees as approved
by the County Commissioners.
   (C)   When underground linear projects exceed one mile in total continuous
length of impact to county rights-of-ways, the County Engineer may choose to
contract outside inspection services. If outside inspection services are hired,
additional permit fees will be calculated based on the actual costs for said
inspections and other services related to the encroachment and will be assessed
in addition to the base fees outlined in the schedule of fees.
      (1)   County Engineer shall estimate the costs of services related to the
requested encroachment.
      (2)   Applicant shall deposit with the County Engineer the amount
estimated by the County Engineer for the services requested plus 10% prior to
approval of the permit.
      (3)   Upon completion of the work and before final inspection, County
Engineer shall cause to be prepared a summary of the expenses incurred for the
requested service.
         (a)   The cost of the final inspection shall be estimated by County
Engineer and shall be considered adequate for the service, whether the actual
costs were more or less than estimated. If the final inspection does not result
in approval of the work, a new summary and final inspection estimate will be
prepared incorporating the costs of the failed final inspection and estimating
the new final inspection.
         (b)   A copy of the summary shall be provided to the applicant.
      (4)   If the expenses were less than the deposit, County Engineer shall
refund unused funds to applicant after approval of the final inspection.
      (5)   If the expenses exceeded the deposit, applicant shall deposit with
the County Engineer additional funds to cover the cost of the requested
services prior to approval of the project.
   (D)   The provisions of this subchapter pertaining to the fee shall not
apply to work done as part of a project owned by any city, town, municipal
corporation, or any other county, or by any agency of the state, provided that
these entities shall comply with all other applicable provisions of this
subchapter.
   (E)   Permit fees shall be paid by check, money order or credit card made
payable to the “Hendricks County Engineering Department”. Cash cannot be
accepted. Any payment fees incurred shall be paid by the permittee.
   (F)   Permit fees shall be deposited in the Engineering Department’s general
operating fund for the costs of administering the department.
   (G)   Permit fees are refundable only if the County Engineer determines that
compliance with this section is not necessary.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.24 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The permit fee is based on the type and amount of work being authorized by
this permit. Fees shall be paid by check or money order or credit card, if on-
site or online processing is available, made payable to the "Hendricks County
Engineering Department". Cash cannot be accepted.
TYPE OF WORK FEE
TYPE OF WORK                           FEE
Open road cut across or within a paved $3 per square foot of excavation ($200
roadway                                minimum)
                                       $50 for each 500 feet of continuous
Underground linear project including   construction or part thereof
grading, trenching, or excavation      * Additional fees may be assessed on
parallel to road                       projects greater than one mile to cover
                                       the direct expenses of hiring consultant
                                       inspection staff.
Push or bore under road                $75 per push or bore
                                       $75 for 1,000 feet of continuous pole
                                       line or fraction of 1,000
Placement/removal of poles/overhead    *Permit not required when replacing or
lines                                  removing a single pole in an existing
                                       location due to damage to the pole or
                                       when making a utility connection on an
                                       existing pole line.
                                       $75 per tap pit/spot cut less than 100
Tap pit/spot cut dirt                  square feet in area
                                       *Does not include any cutting of the
                                       pavement surface.
Major commercial drive                 $250 per drive
Minor commercial drive                 $250 per drive
Construction/temporary drive           $100 per drive
Public road approach/private road      $400 per approach+ $1 per square foot of
approach                               full width auxiliary lane pavement +
                                       $0.25 per square foot of road widening
Utility pull-off drive                 $250 per drive
Residential drive                      $150 per drive
Field entrance                         $25 per entrance
 
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.25 BONDS.
   (A)   Where in the opinion of the County Engineer the improvements may
impact county improvements in the right-of-way, a permit bond for the estimated
cost of the impact shall be provided to the County Engineer. The bond shall be
submitted and approved prior to issuance of a permit.
   (B)   The permit bond shall obligate the applicant to perform all duties
required by the terms of the permit and to the satisfaction of the County
Engineer, and shall pay all lawful claims of the contractor, vendors and
laborers for labor performed and materials furnished, or other services
rendered in the carrying forward, performing and completing of the permit.
   (C)   The standard bond amounts shall be as set forth in the schedule of
bonds as approved by the County Commissioners.
   (D)   The County Engineer may allow utilities intending to file for multiple
permits to have an annual permit bond for utility work in the county right-of-
way in an amount acceptable to the County Engineer. The minimum annual permit
bond amount requirement is $25,000. The annual permit bond shall be written so
that it covers all contemplated projects within the county and automatically
renews, unless the surety gives the County Engineer a written notice 60 days
prior to the annual expiration date. An annual permit bond cannot be used for
drive or public road approach permits.
   (E)   The County Engineer shall have the authority to develop bond forms and
to approve bonds received for improvements.
   (F)   Prior to the release of any permit bond, the County Engineer will
inspect to determine the completion of construction according to the terms of
the permit and to the satisfaction of the County Engineer.
   (G)   At the discretion of the County Engineer, a maintenance bond may be
required from an applicant as a condition of approval or as a condition of
releasing the permit bond. A utility company having a certificate of authority
or franchise issued by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commissioner and who has
a continuous bond on file with the County Engineer may use the permit bond in
lieu of the maintenance bond when approved by the County Engineer.
   (H)   If the bond company sends notice that the bond is being canceled at
any time prior to completion of the conditions for which the bond is obligated,
the total amount of the bond shall become immediately due and payable to the
County Board of Commissioners. If a maintenance bond is not submitted upon
completion of the work, the total amount of the permit bond covering the work
will become immediately due and payable to the County Board of Commissioners
and no additional permits will be issued to the applicant.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.26 SCHEDULE OF BONDS.
   The minimum permit bond required is based on the type and amount of work
being authorized by this permit. Bond coverage is based upon the controlling
operation of the proposed work within the right-of-way. Bond coverages may be
adjusted at the discretion of the County Engineer and/or the Board of
Commissioners.
TYPE OF WORK MINIMUM BOND REQUIRED
TYPE OF WORK                         MINIMUM BOND REQUIRED
Open road cut                        $15,000 per location
Underground linear project including
grading, trenching, or excavation    $10,000 per mile or fraction of a mile
parallel to road
Push or bore under road              $5,000 per push or bore
Placement/removal of poles/overhead  $5,000 per mile or fraction of a mile
lines
Tap pit/spot cut dirt                $5,000 per tap pit/spot cut
Major commercial drive               $15,000 per drive
Minor commercial drive               $10,000 per drive
Construction/temporary drive         $10,000 per drive
Public road approach/private road    $15,000 per approach
approach
Utility pull-off drive               $10,000 per drive
Residential drive or field entrance  No bond required
Maintenance bonds                    Equal to initial permit bond amount
 
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.27 GENERAL PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Permits for work in the right-of-way shall include the following general
conditions as applicable to the permit type and work being done.
   (A)   The permittee shall request utility locates prior to any excavation in
accordance with state law.
   (B)   A drive is not permitted to cross a limited access rights-of-way or a
non-access easement.
   (C)   The entire expense of constructing driveways, mailbox approaches,
utilities, and other private improvements shall be borne by the property owner
(s).
   (D)   No entrance shall be closer than five feet to the adjacent property
line or as indicated by any zoning bufferyard requirements.
   (E)   No approach shall be constructed so that any part of it extends in
front of the property belonging to a person other than the permittee.
   (F)   All driveways and approaches shall be so constructed that they shall
not interfere with drainage of, or cause erosion to, the highway.
   (G)   All water must be directed away from the roadway to side ditches or
other swales.
   (H)   All disturbed areas shall be seeded or sodded immediately upon
completion to prevent erosion. This work may be deferred until growing season
upon installation of erosion control measures at the County Engineer’s
discretion.
   (I)   The construction of such driveways and approaches shall not interfere
with any existing structure or any county highway right-of-way without specific
written permission from the County Engineer and any owner of the structure.
   (J)   Concrete headwalls or any other concrete, brick or other solid
structures including mailbox installations will not be permitted in the right
of way.
   (K)   All entrances and approaches shall be constructed with adequate sight
distance in both directions along the highway to allow safe access to the
highway without interfering with traffic on the highway.
   (L)   No entrance or approach shall be constructed where it will interfere
with or prevent the proper location of highway signs.
   (M)   If the driveway has a loose aggregate surface, it is the permittee’s
responsibility to keep the highway pavement free from the loose aggregate at
all times.
   (N)   Permitted work must be completed within one year after the permit is
issued; otherwise the permit will expire and a new permit will be required.
   (O)   Permittees and property owner(s) shall bear all expenses of keeping
approaches, culverts, and drainage in proper and adequate repair.
   (P)   The permittee may not plant flowers, shrubs, or trees within the
right-of-way. Existing plantings in the right-of-way creating a potentially
dangerous condition as determined by the County Engineer shall be removed by
permittee.
   (Q)   During construction of any drive, the approach must have sufficient
aggregate during construction to prevent damage to the edge of existing
pavement.
   (R)   Permittee will be responsible for costs incurred by the Highway
Department to repair the existing road or public improvements if damaged.
   (S)   The permittee shall provide a drawing (plan sheets if applicable) of
the proposed installation (see “Instructions for Completion” for the
requirements.)
   (T)   The utility facilities which are to be retained, installed, adjusted,
or relocated on, over, along, or under the highway, within county right-of-way
limits, will be located and accommodated in a manner that will not impair use
of the highway, its maintenance, or otherwise interfere with its safe
operation.
   (U)   No pole, handhole, riser, or other feature constructed as part of this
improvement shall be placed in the flowline of a roadside ditch, nor in any
manner that will obstruct drainage.
   (V)   The permittee hereby agrees to assume liability for making any
necessary utility adjustments should future conditions or road improvements
necessitate such action when so requested by the Board, including the
assumption of cost thereof, except where permittee has a compensable property
right, or where reimbursement of such cost is provided for by law.
   (W)   It is the responsibility of the permittee to determine and show the
county right-of-way limits to the best of their ability.
   (X)   All disturbed areas shall be seeded or sodded by the permittee
immediately upon completion to prevent erosion. This work may be deferred until
growing season upon installation of erosion control measures at the Highway
Engineer’s discretion.
   (Y)   The permittee further agrees to comply with the rules and regulations
of the Board in servicing, maintaining, replacing, and removing the above
described facilities, and to obtain a permit before performing any of these
functions on such facilities located within the highway right-of-way, through
the office of the County Engineer.
   (Z)   The permittee shall save harmless and indemnify the Board from any
claim for damages of any nature whatsoever arising out of the permittee’s
negligence in connection with any work done pursuant to the agreement or in
connection with the operation of the utility or improvement.
   (AA)   During the progress of any construction undertaken within the limits
of said highway in compliance with this agreement, the permittee shall provide
watchmen and flagmen as may be required for safety and convenience of the
public. Further, the permittee shall provide all barricades, signs, and traffic
control lights reasonably necessary to protect the public. Traffic shall be
maintained at all times unless otherwise indicated by special endorsement of
the Boards duly authorized representative. Further, any detours of traveled
roadways in the county must be approved by the County Engineering Department
and the Board which have acknowledged and approved the impact of such detours
on the county roadways prior to the implementation of such detour as may be
required. All traffic control measures shall be in compliance with the Indiana
MUTCD and INDOT Standards.
   (BB)   All damages to drainage structures, roadbeds, pavements, ditches, and
other highway appurtenances arising from the installation, maintenance, or
repair of the permittee’s utility facilities shall be repaired at the expense
of the permittee. No portion of pavement or highway shall be disturbed without
prior permission from the Board. If a road cut is approved, the permittee shall
make all necessary repairs according to specifications obtained from the County
Engineering Department. Upon completion of any work within the limits of the
highway, all disturbed portions shall be replaced as nearly as practicable in
as good a condition as they were when the work was begun.
   (CC)   It is understood and agreed to by the Board and the permittee that
all utilities shall comply with the applicable provisions of the “Indiana
Department of Transportation Utility Accommodation Policy, June 1, 2019", or
latest edition.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.28 PERMIT REVIEW AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The County Engineer shall review each application for compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter and the published details and specifications.
   (B)   The County Engineer shall conduct an inspection of the location of any
proposed encroachment.
   (C)   Upon a finding by the County Engineer that the proposed improvement
substantially complies with the county's requirements, and any culvert will be
appropriately sized, the County Engineer shall approve and issue a permit for
the improvements.
   (D)   Permittee shall post the permit in a conspicuous location where the
improvements are being constructed.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.29 PERMIT TERM AND EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The holder of a permit shall complete the work within one year of the
date of issuance of the permit.
   (B)   A permit will expire the earlier of:
      (1)   One year from the date of issuance;
      (2)   Upon final approval of the work covered by the permit as determined
by the County Engineer; or
      (3)   Sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the permit bond covering
the work.
   (C)   In the event permittee has not initiated the work prior to the end of
the permit term, the permit shall expire.
   (D)   An extension of time for a period of one year may be granted upon
receipt of a new application and permit fee.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.30 INSTALLATION, INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Permittee shall be responsible for the purchase, installation, and
construction of all improvements in the right-of-way according to the permit.
   (B)   The County Engineer shall inspect the improvements to determine
conformity with the permit and the applicable details and specifications.
   (C)   The County Engineer shall be notified at least 24 hours in advance of
construction and when construction is complete in order to allow for
inspections.
   (D)   (1)   The County Engineer shall have the authority to make final
administrative determinations as to the acceptability of any work done in the
right-of-way.
      (2)   A final determination by the County Engineer that the work is
complete and complies with the applicable standards shall satisfy permittee’s
obligations under the permit and the permit bond.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.31 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The following conditions or events, as determined by the County
Engineer, represent noncompliance with the permit:
      (1)   Permittee’s work is substantially completed but does not fully
comply with the applicable standards following notification to permittee and
providing 30 days for correction;
      (2)   The term of the permit is expiring and permittee is not making
continuing, diligent efforts to complete the work; or
      (3)   Where a condition exists related to the permit work that, in the
County Engineer’s opinion, creates an unsafe condition or a hazard and
permittee has not corrected the condition after being notified and provided the
opportunity to resolve the condition.
   (B)   A permit time extension shall satisfy the non-compliant conditions or
events represented under divisions (A)(1) or (2) above.
   (C)   The County Engineer is authorized to issue a stop work order for work
under any permit until any condition under division (A)(3) above is resolved.
   (D)   Upon a condition or event of non-compliance, the County Engineer may
notify the permit bond holder that a claim is pending under the permit bond to
complete the work. The County Engineer thereafter may take such actions as he
considers prudent to cause the work to be completed.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.32 NON-CONFORMITY.
   (A)   If any improvements in the rights-of-way are found to be in violation
of this subchapter in a manner that, in the County Engineer’s opinion does not
represent a significant potential safety hazard, permittee or property owner
shall be notified in writing by the County Engineer about the violation and
shall be given 30 days to conform to this subchapter.
   (B)   If any improvements in the rights-of-way are found to be in violation
of this subchapter in a manner that, in the County Engineer’s opinion, does
represent a significant potential safety hazard, the county Engineer may issue
a stop work order for use of the improvements and direct permittee to
immediately rectify the violation to the extent the safety hazard is resolved,
after which the stop work order shall be revoked.
   (C)   Continued violation of this subchapter may result in revocation of the
permit and may result in the removal of existing improvement at permittee’s
expense by the Highway Department.
   (D)   Permittee will then have to file for a new permit, pay a new permit
fee, and comply with the current standard details and specifications.
   (E)   Nothing in this subchapter shall limit the county’s rights to seek and
obtain injunctive relief for any non-conformance.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.33 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A person who violates this subchapter commits a class A infraction.
When a violation occurs, the permit holder, the contractor, company or
individual performing the work and the owner of the facilities being installed
or constructed shall be held in violation both jointly and separately. Each
subsection violated and each day for which the violation remains shall be a
separate violation. A fine in an amount not to exceed $2,500 shall be imposed
for each violation of this subchapter. Additionally, the permittee, owner or
contractor shall be responsible for the costs of restitution for any damages to
any County right-of-way or improvement thereon. The applicable fine and
restitution cost shall be entered against a person who violates this subchapter
per violation for each day of the violation.
   (B)   Fee for enforcement of violations. Whenever any individual or
corporation is found to be in violation of any section of this subchapter, an
inspection fee will be imposed to cover the costs of enforcement. This fee
shall be $250 per day per violation of each section of this subchapter. This
fee is due and payable by permittee upon notification by the County Engineer.
Failure to pay the fee within 14 days of notification will result in the
withholding of all future permits to the individual or corporation and
immediate submittal of the violation to the County Attorney for collection. At
the discretion of the County Engineer, this fee may be waived for an initial
violation of this subchapter provided the violator corrects his or her
violation in a timely manner.
   (C)   Appeal of the levy of this fee may be made to the County
Commissioners. The fee amount due will not be required to be paid until the
County Commissioners have acted upon the appeal.
   (D)   In addition to the remedies set out in this section, any contractor,
company, or individual who violates any provision in this subchapter may be
ineligible to obtain a permit under this subchapter unless, or until all fines,
damages, judgments, or restitution costs are paid in full by the violator.
   (E)   For any violation of this subchapter or for any fine, fee, or cost of
restitution as provided for in this subchapter, the county may file an action
for damages and injunctive relief and for the imposition or collection of such
fine, fee, or cost of restitution in the Hendricks County Circuit or Superior
Courts. The person, company, corporation for contractor found to be in
violation shall also be ordered to pay the costs of such action including
reasonable attorney fees of the county.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.34 OTHER PERMITS.
   For permits issued for improvements in the right-of-way necessitated by or
related to building construction or remodeling projects, the Area Plan
Commission shall:
   (A)   Not issue a building permit until a permit is issued under this
subchapter; and
   (B)   Not issue a certificate of occupancy until the County Engineer has
given approval of the improvements in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A penalty of $2,500 may be imposed for any activity in the county
right-of-way without an approved right-of-way permit (see §
70.01). Any work within the right-of-way must meet the conditions of approval.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of §
70.02 shall constitute a misdemeanor, and any person found guilty thereof shall
be assessed a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $1,000.
   (D)   Violation of §
70.03 shall constitute a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by a fine or
imprisonment as is now or may hereafter be provided by State Acts, 1939,
Chapter 48, § 160.
(Ord. 1971-1, passed 1-18-1971; Ord. 1979 6, passed 3-5-1979; Ord. 99-19,
passed 6-21-1999)
CHAPTER 71: TRAVEL ADVISORIES; EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Purpose
   
71.02   Procedure
   
71.03   Travel advisories
   
71.04   Publication; local emergencies
   
71.05   Exemptions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall apply to all roads, highways, and rights-of-way which are
maintained by the County Highway Department. The mandatory provisions of this
chapter, which includes the prohibition of travel and the penalties for
violating these prohibitions, shall not apply to streets maintained by an
incorporated city or town within the county, or to a state highway maintained
by the State Department of Transportation, nor to a federal interstate highway
situated within the county.
(Ord. 2014-11, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 71.02 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners, after consultation with the County
Emergency Director, County Sheriff, County Highway Superintendent, or County
Engineer, if available, or the representative designated by each as the person
to consult in his or her absence for the purpose of recommending a declaration
of local disaster emergency, may declare a local disaster emergency which may
contain a warning level travel advisory by executive order when, in the County
Board of Commissioner’s best judgment, by majority rule, such order would be
appropriate under I.C. 10-14-3-29, and in the best interest of the public
safety and welfare for the residents of the county.
   (B)   If only one member of the County Board of Commissioners is available
to sign the declaration of local disaster emergency, he or she can declare a
local disaster emergency if he or she has obtained, and documented, the verbal,
or written, concurrence of at least one other Board member.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29.5, a warning level travel advisory may be
issued only after, or as part of, a declaration of local disaster emergency.
Such emergency shall continue in effect until the County Board of
Commissioners, in consultation with the County Emergency Director, the County
Sheriff, County Highway Department Supervisor, and the County Engineer, declare
an emergency no longer exists in the county and the emergency order is
terminated by at least two Board members.
   (D)   The County Board of Commissioners may declare a warning level travel
advisory upon its determination that the conditions are appropriate for the
issuance of a local disaster emergency under I.C. 10-14-3-29, and the further
determination that the criteria set forth in §
71.03 have been met.
(Ord. 2014-11, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 71.03 TRAVEL ADVISORIES.
   (A)   A local travel advisory shall be declared in accordance with I.C. 10-
14-3-29.5 and with this chapter.
   (B)   The purpose of a local travel advisory, as seen in divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(3) below, is to keep the residents of the county informed of the
weather and county road conditions, and to assist the County Highway Department
in the clearing of the county roads and rights-of-way by eliminating stranded
vehicles.
      (1)   Advisory level travel advisory. This level may be declared when
routine travel or activities may be restricted in areas of the county because
of a hazardous situation. Citizens should use caution or avoid these areas.
School and businesses may want to implement their emergency action plans.
      (2)   Watch level travel advisory. This level may be declared when
conditions are threatening the safety of the public. Only essential travel is
recommended, such as to and from work, emergency situations, and the like. At
this level, emergency action plans should be implemented by businesses,
schools, government agencies, and other organizations.
      (3)   Warning level travel advisory. This level may be declared when
roads have become impassable, and the County Highway Department is not able to
keep the roads cleared due to extreme weather conditions, such as severe snow
fall, high drifts, or blizzard-like conditions. Travel may be restricted to
emergency management workers only and essential emergency travel by members of
the public, as stated by the County Board of Commissioners, such as health care
workers, public safety, or other critical infrastructure personnel.
(Ord. 2014-11, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 71.04 PUBLICATION; LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local
disaster emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity, and shall be
filed promptly in the office of the County Clerk pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22(b)
(2). Publication and broadcast of an advisory, watch, or warning level travel
advisory shall be made by the County Emergency Management Director. He or she
shall issue a press release to all law enforcement agencies, fire departments,
and hospitals in the county, and to all news media in the county, and
television stations in the county and general surrounding areas. The
declaration shall be promptly forwarded to the State Department of Homeland
Security, and shall be kept on file by the County Emergency Management
Director, County Clerk, and County Auditor.
(Ord. 2014-11, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 71.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   Vehicles which shall be exempt from the travel restrictions imposed in a
travel warning pursuant to this chapter shall include medical assistance, law
enforcement, fire department, emergency management, public utility, fuel
hauling vehicles, and County Board of Commissioners and County Highway
employees if engaged in performing their respective duties. Any other vehicles
violating this chapter are subject to removal by towing or other means, at the
expense of the owner of the vehicle when such towing and/or removal is deemed
necessary by a duly-authorized representative of any of the following: the
County Sheriff’s Department, the County Highway Department, or the state
police.
(Ord. 2014-11, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or the vehicle
restrictions contained in this chapter of declared disaster emergency, or a
warning travel advisory shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500, and
such shall be enforceable in any court of law, duly authorized by state law
and, in addition to such fine, the court shall be authorized to direct the
violator to repay the county for any monetary loss or expense incurred in the
incident.
(Ord. 2014-11, passed 2-11-2014)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Weight restrictions
      
II.   Stop signs
      
III.   Speed limits
      
IV.   Truck traffic
SCHEDULE I. WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Current weight restrictions.
Point of Operation Location Weight
Point of Operation         Location                                    Weight
Co. Rd. 50 W               From Co. Rd. 625 N to U.S. Highway 136      20 tons
Co. Rd. 75 S               From Co. Rd. 200 E to Co. Rd. 150 E         15 tons
Co. Rd. 100 S              From Co. Rd. 1050 E to Raceway Road         20 tons
Co. Rd. 200 E              From 1,220 feet south of U.S. Highway 36 to 20 tons
                           Cartersburg Road
Co. Rd. 200 S              From Mackey Road (Co. Rd. 75 W) to S.R. 39  20 tons
Co. Rd. 625 N              From S.R. 39 to Co. Rd. 50 W                20 tons
Co. Rd. 900 E              From Co. Rd. 100 S to Co. Rd. 200 S         20 tons
Co. Rd. 1000 S             From Co. Rd. 0 to S.R. 39                   20 tons
Co. Rd. 1050 E             From Co. Rd. 100 S to U.S. 40               20 tons
Mackey Road (Co. Rd. 75 W) From U.S. Highway 36 to Co. Rd. 200 S       20 tons
 
   (B)   Violations. Upon finding of a violation of this schedule, a penalty
shall be imposed in the penal sum of up to $500.
(Ord. 1991-12, passed 3-26-1991; Ord. 2003-20, passed 11-5-2003; Ord. 2004-15,
passed 3-23-2004; Ord. 2006-09, passed 5-23-2006; Ord. 2008-13, passed 11-18-
2008; Ord. 2017-38, passed 9-12-2017)
SCHEDULE II. STOP SIGNS.
Intersection Location of Stop Sign(s)
Intersection                         Location of Stop Sign(s)
Co. Rd. 0 and Co. Rd. 900 S          All four directions at intersection
Co. Rd. 200 S at Cartersburg Road    All four directions at intersection
Co. Rd. 500 N at Co. Rd. 600 E       All four directions at intersection
Co. Rd. 700 N and Co. Rd. 900 E      All four directions at intersection
Eastbound approach on Eagle Drive,   One direction from intersection
approaching Eagle Village Drive
Eastbound approach on Porter Drive   One direction from intersection
approaching Gable Drive
Eastbound approach on Schrier Drive  One direction from intersection
approaching Gable Drive
Westbound approach of Co. Rd. 100 N, All four directions at intersection
southbound approach of Co. Rd. 200 E
Westbound approach on Porter Drive   One direction from intersection
approaching Shelton Drive
Westbound approach on Schrier Drive  One direction from intersection
approaching Shelton Drive
 
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 3-7-2006; Ord. 2012-07, passed 2-14-2012; Ord. 2017-31,
passed 8-22-2017; Ord. 2020-3, passed 1-28-2020; Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-10-
2023; Ord. 2023-20, passed 7-11-2023; Ord. 2024-23, passed 6-25-2024)
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Current speed limits.
Preferential Highway Location Speed Limit
Preferential Highway          Location                             Speed Limit
Avon Avenue                   Avon corporate limits to Brownsburg  45 mph
                              corporate limits
Broyles Road                  Co. Rd. 550 E to Co. Rd. 575 E       35 mph
Casco Drive                   U.S. Highway 36 to the dead end      25 mph
Co. Rd. 0                     500 feet south of US 40 to 500 feet  35 mph
                              north of US 40
Co. Rd. 50 E                  Danville corporate limits north to   40 mph
                              Co. Rd. 200 N
Co. Rd. 50 E                  Sycamore Lane to Danville corporate  40 mph
                              limits south
Co. Rd. 275 E                 Pittsboro corporate limits, north of 35 mph
                              Frontage Road
Co. Rd. 300 S                 Putnam county line to Co. Rd. 800 W  30 mph
Co. Rd. 350 W                 Co. Rd. 200 S to Co. Rd. 400 S       50 mph
Co. Rd. 400 S                 Co. Rd. 475 E to Co. Rd. 500 E       35 mph
Co. Rd. 450 E                 Main Street (Old 36) to Co. Rd. 100  40 mph
                              N
Co. Rd. 471 E                 Co. Rd. 1000 N to the dead end       35 mph
Co. Rd. 475 E                 Avon corporate limits to Co. Rd. 350 45 mph
                              S
Co. Rd. 475 E                 Co. Rd. 100 N to Co. Rd. 150 N       40 mph
Co. Rd. 475 E                 Co. Rd. 350 S to Co. Rd. 400 S       35 mph
Co. Rd. 500 E                 U.S. Highway 40 to the dead end      30 mph
Co. Rd. 550 N                 Co. Rd. 400 E to Co. Rd. 500 E       40 mph
Co. Rd. 600 N                 Co. Rd. 900 E to Raceway Road        45 mph
Co. Rd. 700 W                 S.R. 75 to Co. Rd. 450 S             40 mph
Co. Rd. 725 N                 County jurisdiction between Co. Rd.  30 mph
                              800 E and Co. Rd. 850 E
Co. Rd. 750 N                 About 2,100 feet west of Race Road   50 mph
                              to Co. Rd. 900 E
                              Raceway Road to about 2,100 feet
Co. Rd. 750 N                 west; west property line of 10752    35 mph
                              east of Co. Rd. 750 N
Co. Rd. 750 N                 St. Malachy property line to         25 mph
                              property line
Co. Rd. 750 N                 Co. Rd. 850 E to railroad crossing   30 mph
Co. Rd. 800 E                 County jurisdiction between Co. Rd.  30 mph
                              700 N and Co. Rd. 725 N
Co. Rd. 800 S                 Co. Rd. 1050 E to S.R. 67            35 mph
Co. Rd. 850 E                 County jurisdiction between Co. Rd.  30 mph
                              725 N and Co. Rd. 750 N
Co. Rd. 900, Co. Rd. 925 N    S.R. 39 to Co. Rd. 75 E              40 mph
Co. Rd. 900 N                 About 1,325 feet west of S.R. 267 to 35 mph
                              S.R. 267
Co. Rd. 900 N                 Co. Rd. 500 E to about 1,325 feet    45 mph
                              west of S.R. 267
Co. Rd. 900 S                 From S.R. 39 to Co. Rd. 100 E        35 mph
Co. Rd. 900 S                 From Co. Rd. 100 E to Tudor Road     50 mph
Co. Rd. 925 E, Co. Rd. 800 S, Co. Rd. 825 E to Co. Rd. 1050 E      45 mph
county line south
Co. Rd. 975 E                 Co. Rd. 700 S to Co. Rd. 800 S       45 mph
Co. Rd. 1000 E                Co. Rd. 700 N to Co. Rd. 750 N       50 mph
Co. Rd. 1000 E                St. Malachy property line to         25 mph
                              property line
Co. Rd. 1000 N                S.R. 267 to 0.25 miles west of S.R.  35 mph
                              267
Co. Rd. 1000 N                S.R. 267 to Co. Rd. 750 E            35 mph
Co. Rd. 1050 E                Co. Rd. 700 S to Co. Rd. 800 S       40 mph
Eagle Drive                   E 600 N to Eagle Village Drive       20 mph
Eaglevillage Drive            E 600 N to Pine Valley Path          20 mph
East Hendricks County Road    0.25 mile west of S.R. 39 to 0.25    40 mph
                              mile east of S.R. 39
Forest Lake Court             Forest Lake Subdivision              20 mph
Hill Valley Drive             Hill Valley Estates                  20 mph
Ladoga Road                   Town limits to 1320 feet NW of town  40 mph
                              linits
Northridge Drive              From Washington St. to the end of    20 mph
                              cul-de-sac
Pheasant Run Drive            Pheasant Run Subdivision             25 mph
Reitzel Drive                 Ivy Ridge Estates                    25 mph
Station Hill Drive            Station Hill Subdivision             20 mph
Valley Vista Drive            Valley Vista Estates                 20 mph
Watkins Lane                  Pheasant Run Subdivision             25 mph
Whispering Winds Drive        Whispering Winds Subdivision         25 mph
 
   (B)   Avon Trails Subdivision.
Preferential Highway Location Speed Limit
Preferential Highway Location               Speed Limit
Cedarstone Lane      Entirety of the street 25 mph
Centennial Court     Entirety of the street 25 mph
Comb Run Court       Entirety of the street 25 mph
Comb Run Lane        Entirety of the street 25 mph
Ellsworth Lane       Entirety of the street 25 mph
Gibbon Lane          Entirety of the street 25 mph
Greene Court         Entirety of the street 25 mph
Helm Drive           Entirety of the street 25 mph
Hollowood Lane       Entirety of the street 25 mph
Jackson Way          Entirety of the street 25 mph
Lakefield Lane       Entirety of the street 25 mph
Lomax Drive          Entirety of the street 25 mph
Nightsong Lane       Entirety of the street 25 mph
Rhodes Lane          Entirety of the street 25 mph
Stonewall Lane       Entirety of the street 25 mph
Taney Court          Entirety of the street 25 mph
Thomas Lane          Entirety of the street 25 mph
Trail Drive          Entirety of the street 25 mph
 
   (C)   Waverly Commons Subdivision.
 
Preferential Highway Location               Speed Limit
Buckshire Lane       Entirety of the street 25 mph
Castleford Lane      Entirety of the street 25 mph
Fairmont Lane        Entirety of the street 25 mph
Waverly Drive        Entirety of the street 25 mph
Weston Drive         Entirety of the street 25 mph
 
   (D)   Apple Creek Estates.
Preferential Highway Location Speed Limit
Preferential Highway Location               Speed Limit
Apple Cider Way      Entirety of the street 20 mph
Granny Smith Lane    Entirety of the street 20 mph
Jonathan Court       Entirety of the street 20 mph
Macintosh Court      Entirety of the street 20 mph
Macintosh Drive      Entirety of the street 20 mph
Pippin Court         Entirety of the street 20 mph
Red Delicious Court  Entirety of the street 20 mph
Red Delicious Lane   Entirety of the street 20 mph
Running Brook Lane   Entirety of the street 20 mph
 
   (E)   Parks at Prestwick Subdivision.
Preferential Highway Location Speed Limit
Preferential Highway Location               Speed Limit
Bevington Lane       Entirety of the street 25 mph
Cairo Way            Entirety of the street 25 mph
Co. Rd. 100 S        Entirety of the street 25 mph
Fairview Court       Entirety of the street 25 mph
Galena Drive         Entirety of the street 25 mph
Nottinghill Court    Entirety of the street 25 mph
Nottinghill Drive    Entirety of the street 25 mph
Notthinghill Lane    Entirety of the street 25 mph
Parkstone Lane       Entirety of the street 25 mph
Parliament Way       Entirety of the street 25 mph
 
   (F)   Beckoning Way Subdivision.
 
Preferential Highway Location               Speed Limit
Beckoning Drive      Entirety of the street 25 mph
Country View Court   Entirety of the street 25 mph
Country View Drive   Entirety of the street 25 mph
Tara Way             Entirety of the street 25 mph
 
   (G)   Hickory Woods.
 
Preferential Highway Location               Speed Limit
Butternut Lane       Entirety of the street 20 mph
Hickory Hollow Drive Entirety of the street 20 mph
Hickory Woods Drive  Entirety of the street 20 mph
Mockernut Court      Entirety of the street 20 mph
Mockernut Drive      Entirety of the street 20 mph
 
   (H)   Colony at Heartland Crossing Subdivision.
Preferential Highway Location Speed Limit
Preferential Highway Location               Speed Limit
Clear Springs Drive  Entirety of the street 20 mph
Daylight Drive       Entirety of the street 20 mph
Delphi Drive         Entirety of the street 20 mph
Glenayr Drive        Entirety of the street 20 mph
Retreat Road         Entirety of the street 20 mph
Story Drive          Entirety of the street 20 mph
Sweetsen Road        Entirety of the street 20 mph
Taggart Drive        Entirety of the street 20 mph
Walnut Grove Drive   Entirety of the street 20 mph
 
   (I)   Estates of Wynbrooke.
 
Preferential Highway Location               Speed Limit
Heather Glen Circle  Entirety of the street 20 mph
Pine Meadow Court    Entirety of the street 20 mph
Pine Meadow Drive    Entirety of the street 20 mph
Poppy Hill Drive     Entirety of the street 20 mph
Savin Drive          Entirety of the street 20 mph
Torulosa Court       Entirety of the street 20 mph
 
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 1-23-2007; Ord. 2007-18, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2007-29,
passed 12-11-2007; Ord. 2008-03, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 2008-09, passed 11-18-
2008; Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2009-11, passed 5-5-2009; Ord.
2009-12, passed 5-5-2009; Ord. 2009-13, passed 5-5-2009; Ord. 2009-22, passed
9-9-2009; Ord. 2009-23, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 2010-11, passed 3-16-2010; Ord.
2010-16, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 2010-22, passed 8-24-2010; Ord. 2010-23, passed
8-24-2010; Ord. 2010-25, passed 10-12-2010; Ord. 2010-27, passed 10-26-2010;
Ord. 2011-02, passed 1-11-2011; Ord. 2011-14, passed 8-9-2011; Ord. 2012-08,
passed 2-14-2012; Ord. 2012-13, passed 3-13-2012; Ord. 2012-14, passed 3-13-
2012; Ord. 2013-14, passed 8-13-2013; Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-13-2013; Ord.
2013-18, passed 9-24-2013; Ord. 2013-19, passed 9-24-2013; Ord. 2014-16, passed
3-25-2014; Ord. 2014-17, passed 3-25-2014; Ord. 2014-18, passed 3-25-2014; Ord.
2014-19, passed 3-25-2014; Ord. 2015-25, passed 8-25-2015; Ord. 2015-26, passed
9-8-2015; Ord. 2015-27, passed 9-8-2015; Ord. 2015-28, passed 9-8-2015; Ord.
2016-06, passed 2-23-2016; Ord. 2016-21, passed 7-12-2016; Ord. 2016-23, passed
7-26-2016; Ord. 2017-34, passed 9-12-2017; Ord. 2017-35, passed 9-12-2017; Ord.
2017-36, passed 9-12-2017; Ord. 2017-37, passed 9-12-2017; Ord. 2019-23, passed
6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-21, passed 5-26-2020; Ord. 2020-31, passed 9-22-2020; Ord.
2024-08, passed 3-26-2024; Ord. 2024-09, passed 3-26-2024; Ord. 2024-24, passed
6-25-2024; Ord. 2024-28, passed 8-13-2024; Ord. 2024-29, passed 8-13-2024; Ord.
2024-46, passed 11-12-2024)
SCHEDULE IV. TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   “No Truck Traffic” shall be posted for the following road segments.
Street Location
Street                              Location
Black Oak Drive                     Co. Rd. (Center Street) to Co. Rd. 825 E
                                    (Indiana Street)
Co. Rd. 825 E (Indiana Street)      Old S.R. 267 to Co. Rd. 700 S
Co. Rd. 850 S                       Co. Rd. 425 E to Co. Rd. 525 E
Co. Rd. 875 S                       S.R. 39 to Co. Rd. 375 E
Co. Rd. 875 S/Hendricks County Road Co. Rd. 525 E to Old S.R. 267
Co. Rd. 950 E                       1000 N to Boone County Line
Co. Rd. 1000 E                      County jurisdiction between I-74 and Co.
                                    Rd. 600 N
 
(Ord. 2020-32, passed 9-22-2020; Ord. 2020-39, passed 10-27-2020; Ord. 2024-36,
passed 9-10-2024; Ord. 2024-40, passed 9-24-2024)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A) Current prohibited parking.
Street/Location Distance Time
Street/Location                   Distance                            Time
10397 Yosemite Lane (Eagle        -                                   All times
Crossing Subdivision; Tallgrass)
                                  From a point on the south line of
County Highway 625 E              U.S. Highway 36 to a point 1,000    All times
                                  feet south of the south R.O.W. of
                                  the Conrail Bridge
Co. Rd. 800 S                     S.R. 267 to Co. Rd. 725 E           All times
Country Lane, within 100 feet     At the intersections of Co. Rd. 400 All times
                                  N and Co. Rd. 900 E
Dutchman Drive                    -                                   All times
Innovation Boulevard              From S.R. 39 to Co. Rd. 1000 S      All times
James Drive                       -                                   All times
Marla Lane                        -                                   All times
North property line of 5864       To a point at about 300 feet south  All times
Ridgehill Way
                                  From the westbound lane of Waverly
                                  Drive from Co. Rd. 1050 E to Weston
                                  Drive; northwest bound lane of
Waverly Commons                   Weston Drive from Waverly Drive to  All times
                                  Buckshire Lane; northbound lane of
                                  Buckshire Lane from Weston Drive to
                                  south property line of Lot 56
Westpoint Boulevard               From S.R. 39 to end                 All times
Windfall Lane (Heartland Crossing -                                   All times
Subdivision)
Windmill Drive                    -                                   All times
Wynbrooke Boulevard (Wynbrooke    From Co. Rd. 200 N to Affirmed      All times
Subdivision)                      Drive
 
   (B)   Violations.
      (1)   The fine for violation of this schedule shall not exceed the sum of
$500 per violation, each day constituting a separate violation. In addition to
the fine assessed pursuant to this schedule, a vehicle violating provision of
this schedule may be towed and impounded at the owner’s expense, such towing
and impoundment costs to be paid in full prior to the release of said vehicle.
      (2)   Any police officer who observes the violation of any provision of
this schedule shall attach to the offending vehicle a notice to the owner or
operator thereof that such vehicle has been parked in violation of the same,
and advising that such person may, within seven days from the date of such
notice, pay to the County Superior Court as a fine for and in full satisfaction
of, such violation the sum of $10, except that in the case of a vehicle that is
unlawfully parked in a properly marked handicapped parking space, such fine
shall be in the sum of $50. Upon the failure of the owner or operator to make
such payment within the seven-day period, the original parking fine shall
increase from $10 to $20, or from $50 to $70, as applicable. If this enhanced
parking fine is not paid in full through the County Superior Courts on, or
before, the date and time set forth on the parking ticket for the hearing on
the parking violation, the owner or operator who has been issued said ticket
shall be required to appear before the County Superior Court and be subject to
the general penalties provided for violations of the provisions of this
schedule. Nothing contained in this division (B) shall limit the county’s right
to also tow and impound any vehicles found to be parked in violation of any
provision of this schedule, the costs of such towing and impoundment to be paid
by the vehicle owner, in addition to the payment of any fine assessed
hereunder.
   (3)   All fines received by the county for violations of this schedule shall
be deposited into the county’s General Fund pursuant to applicable law.
(Ord. 1979-18A, passed 11-27-1979; Ord. 2005-31, passed 8-23-2005; Ord. 2007-
12, passed 6-19-2007; Ord. 2007-13, passed 6-19-2007; Ord. 2007-17, passed 7-
10-2007; Ord. 2007-24, passed 9-25-2007; Ord. 2011-15, passed 8-9-2011; Ord.
2013-11, passed 6-11-2013; Ord. 2015-36, passed 10-13-2015; Ord. 2022-49,
passed 9-27-2022)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   RECREATION AND LEISURE
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Market Cattle Testing Program
   
90.02   Refuse control
   
90.03   Heating and cooling discharge
Alarm Systems
   
90.15   Purpose
   
90.16   Definitions
   
90.17   Prohibited activity, fines
   
90.18   Enforcement
   
90.19   Hearings
Illegal Dumping
   
90.30   Purpose
   
90.31   Definitions
   
90.32   Prohibited acts
   
90.33   Property owner rights, responsibilities
   
90.34   Enforcement and abatement
   
90.35   Hearings
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 MARKET CATTLE TESTING PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to help facilitate the operation and
cooperation needed in making the Market Cattle Testing Program (MCT) effective.
The MCT Program is to replace the much more expensive and burdensome program of
brucellosis and tuberculosis control that has been relied on in the past that
has been paid for by tax funds. This consisted of testing all eligible cattle
in the county every six years.
   (2)   The MCT Program is a method of collecting blood for tests and the
examination of the carcass of all slaughter animals for evidence of brucellosis
or tuberculosis, and by identification of the animals by a backtag, as infected
animals can be traced to the herd of origin where the entire herd will be
tested. Negative animals will also be credited to the county of origin, until
such time as the entire state has qualified as a certified brucellosis-free
area, and as an accredited tuberculosis-free area (M. Bovis in cattle).
   (B)   Area of responsibility.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the herd owners and livestock
dealers to allow an official backtag to be applied to all female bovine animals
two years of age and over, or any heifer showing udder development, and all
bulls over six months of age that are going to slaughter, provided further that
cattle owners insist this be done.
      (2)   Any public livestock marketing facility within the county shall
identify and apply official tags to all such bovine animals as described in
division (B)(1) above. Identifying backtags will be supplied free of charge to
the auction markets for the purpose of identifying all species of animals for
their convenience.
      (3)   Slaughtering establishments within the county which buys identified
animals from a market, or untagged animals, direct will collect and identify
all blood samples from eligible animals as described in division (B)(1) above
and sent to the Purdue Diagnostic Laboratory for testing (all necessary
equipment and postage will be supplied). Untagged animals that are direct from
the farm will be identified by backtag at the time of arrival at the
slaughtering plant, and blood samples collected and submitted for testing in
the same manner as described above.
      (4)   Any livestock dealer purchasing untagged livestock within the
county shall identify and apply official tags to all such bovine animals
described in division (B)(1) above unless a public livestock marketing facility
agrees to provide such service to the dealer. The dealer will identify the
source of each animal presented at the market.
      (5)   All persons required to identify animals in accordance with this
section shall file reports of such identification on forms supplied by the
State Board of Animal Health.
      (6)   When reactor animals are disclosed by the Market Cattle Test, the
herd of origin shall be tested within 15 days under the supervision of the
State Board of Animal Health.
      (7)   If the owner fails to comply, a quarantine will be issued with
attending restrictions and penalties.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.02 REFUSE CONTROL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GARBAGE. Rejected food waste, and shall include, but is not limited to,
every waste accumulation of animal, fruit, or vegetable matter used or intended
for food, and wastes from the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing
of meat, fish, fowl, fruit, or vegetables.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer, or his or her authorized
representative.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, or partnership.
      REFUSE. Any combination of garbage and/or rubbish.
      RUBBISH. Such matter as ashes, cans, metalware, broken glass, crockery,
dirt, sweepings, boxes, wood, grass, weeds, or litter of any kind.
   (B)   Removal of refuse that is detrimental to the public health. When the
Health Officer, or his or her authorized representative, shall determine that
any person is accumulating, or permitting the accumulation of, refuse in other
than a lawful and sanitary matter, the Health Officer shall order the removal
of the refuse from the premises within a period of time as deemed reasonable by
the Health Officer under the circumstances. The order shall be in writing, and
shall be delivered to the person, in person, or by mail to the last known
address of the person. The refuse must be removed to an approved sanitary
landfill. If the person fails or refuses to remove the refuse as ordered by the
Health Officer, the Health Officer will report the violation to the County
Prosecuting Attorney, to cause proceedings to be commenced against the person
violating this section, and to prosecute said matter to final determination.
(Ord. 4 1981, passed 3-16-1981)
§ 90.03 HEATING AND COOLING DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This section is to regulate the water discharge from heating and/or
cooling systems into stormwater drainage systems.
      (2)   This section prohibits persons who utilize heating and cooling with
water discharges from releasing the water into certain stormwater drainage
systems.
      (3)   Most stormwater drainage systems are not designed to accommodate
the additional water generated by discharge from certain types of heating
and cooling systems.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HEATING AND/OR COOLING SYSTEM. A heat transfer system which either
extracts or expends heat from, or to, a water supply for purposes of heating or
cooling a structure.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate, or his or her legal representative, or
an agent.
      STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All ditches, channels, conduits, curbs,
gutters, subsurface drains, tile drains, retention-detention systems, swales,
sewers, and other natural or artificial means of draining stormwater from land.
      WATER DISCHARGE. The water that is released from a heating and/or cooling
system after heat is either extracted or expended.
   (C)   Prohibited discharge. No person shall cause or permit a water
discharge into a stormwater drainage system from a heating or cooling system,
except as permitted by division (D), and subject to the conditions therein.
   (D)   Permitted discharge.
      (1)   Water discharge from a heating and/or cooling system is permitted
to an intermittent stream or creek designated as such on the United States
Department of Interior Geological Survey Maps, a lake, a pond, or a well.
      (2)   Other natural ravines and waterways may be used as an outlet to
discharge water from heating and/or cooling systems, provided they are approved
for such discharge by the County Engineer, which said approval will not be
unreasonably withheld.
      (3)   Open legal drains may be used for heating and/or cooling discharge,
provided the discharge is approved by the County Drainage Board.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The principal enforcement of this section shall be the duty of the
County Engineer. Any person found in violation of this section may receive a
written notice of the violation from the County Engineer.
      (2)   Such written notice will give the violator 20 days to correct the
violation. If the violation is not corrected, the County Engineer will notify
the County Attorney who will institute a suit for injunction in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved may
institute a suit for injunction in a county court of competent jurisdiction to
restrain a person, or persons, from violating the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 13 1982, passed 10-12-1982)
ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 90.15 PURPOSE.
   To establish required fees, to provide penalties for violations of this
subchapter, and to encourage security alarm users and alarm businesses (sales,
installations, customer service, and/or monitoring) to maintain the operational
reliability and the proper use of alarm systems, limiting the unnecessary
responses to alarms by the County Law Enforcement Agencies.
(Ord. 2017-08, passed 3-28-2017)
§ 90.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM AGENT. Any person who is employed by an alarm business either directly
or indirectly, whose duties include selling, maintaining, leasing, servicing,
repairing, altering, replacing, moving, or installing on, or in, any building
structure, facility, or grounds any alarm system.
   ALARM BUSINESS. Any individual partnership, corporation, or other entity
who, in addition to selling alarm systems, also leases, maintains, services,
repairs, alters, replaces, moves, or installs an alarm system, or causes to be
sold, leased, maintained, serviced, repaired, altered, replaced, moved, or
installed any alarm system in, or on, any building, structure, facility, or
grounds.
   ALARM NOTIFICATION. A notification intended to summon a law enforcement
agency, which is designed either to be initiated purposely by a person, or by
an alarm system that responds to an unlawful entry, attempted entry, or any
other unauthorized intrusion.
   ALARM SITE. A single premises or location served by an alarm system.
   ALARM SYSTEM.
      (1)   Any device used for the detection of an unauthorized entry, or
attempted entry, into a building, structure, facility, or grounds, or for
alerting others on the commission of an unlawful act within a building,
structure, facility, or grounds which, when activated, causes notification to
be made directly, or indirectly, to a law enforcement agency.
      (2)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following shall be
considered exempt:
         (a)   An alarm installed on a motor vehicle;
         (b)   An alarm installed upon premises occupied by the United States,
the state, or any political subdivision thereof;
         (c)   An alarm which signals or alerts only the occupants of the
premises protected by the alarm system;
         (d)   An alarm occurring during electrical storms, hurricanes,
tornadoes, blizzards, or other acts of nature; and
         (e)   Circumstances not reasonably under the control of the alarm
user, installer, or maintainer (the responsibility to show causation is that of
the user, installer, or maintainer).
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. Any device that is designed, or intended, to
automatically dial, via telephone lines, any law enforcement agency and report
an emergency, such as a burglary or hold up.
   FALSE ALARM NOTIFICATION. Any alarm notification, whether direct or
indirect, to a law enforcement agency, when the responding officer finds no
evidence of a criminal offense or attempted offense.
   PANIC ALARM. Any device that is designed or intended to be manually
activated by a person, whether in a business or automobile, who has encountered
an actual, or perceived, emergency situation.
   REMOTE ALARM REPORTER. Any device that is designed, or intended, to provide
an audible (bell tone, siren, and the like) response in the event of a
burglary/hold up alarm, to a remote site such as the County Communications
Center.
(Ord. 2017-08, passed 3-28-2017)
§ 90.17 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY, FINES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person who owns or controls property on
which an alarm system is installed to issue, cause to be issued, or allow the
issuance of more than two false alarms in a calendar year.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to an alarm system which emits a false
alarm within 30 days after installation of the alarm system.
   (C)   A person who owns or controls property on which an alarm system is
installed shall receive a warning from the appropriate law enforcement agency
for the two false alarms issued by such alarm system during a calendar year.
   (D)   Fines will be established as follows, plus court costs:
 
Non-Exempt False Alarms Fines or Penalties
First two               Written warning
Third                   $15
Fourth                  $30
Fifth                   $60
Sixth                   $90
Seventh                 $150
 
   (E)   In addition to the penalties provided for in this section, any act or
any person, firm, or corporation who continuously, knowingly, and intentionally
violates any provisions of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance,
and all remedies applicable to a nuisance, both public and private, including,
but not limited to, injunctions and damages, are hereby preserved.
(Ord. 2017-08, passed 3-28-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff’s Department to enforce
this subchapter. Any person violating any provision of this subchapter shall be
subject to fines and costs as specified within this subchapter.
   (B)   Violators of this subchapter shall be served a written notice of the
violation (complaint and summons) either in person, or by any other manner
reasonably calculated to result in actual notice, including certified mail.
(Ord. 2017-08, passed 3-28-2017)
§ 90.19 HEARINGS.
   Any person receiving any such notice of violation as described herein and
wishes to enter a denial may be granted a hearing on the matter before a court
of competent jurisdiction. At such time, if the court finds a subchapter
violation has occurred, said court shall assess court costs and fines, and may
also award reasonable attorney fees, from the violator for the necessity of
prosecuting an action when judgement is found for the county. The court may
also assess administrative costs expended by the county on taking enforcement
action.
(Ord. 2017-08, passed 3-28-2017)
ILLEGAL DUMPING
§ 90.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prohibit illegal dumping of solid waste
materials in the county, to establish for violations therefor, and to provide
for the methods of clean up of open dumps. Improper disposal at recycling
stations are also prohibited.
(Ord. 1993-29, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 90.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Any discarded construction or demolition
materials including, but not limited to, untreated lumber, paneling, drywall,
roofing, shingles, siding, plumbing and electrical components, doors, windows,
floor coverings, and cabinets.
   CONTAMINANT. The same definitions as that of 327 I.A.C. 12.1-2-6.
   DISCARDING. To abandon, deposit, discharge, dispose, drop, dump, eliminate,
emit, jettison, leave, pitch, place, put, scrap, spill, throw, or toss any item
or solid waste, or a derivative thereof, of any inherently wastelike material
in a manner such that the discarded substance remains upon the land as solid
waste.
   DUMPING.
      (1)   The discarding or long-term storage of any items of solid waste
commonly known as garbage, rubbish, refuse construction demolition debris,
household trash, appliances, diapers, food service wastes, tires, scrap metal,
vehicle parts, implement parts, fence wire, and all other items and materials
defined as solid waste below and in I.C. 13-11-2-205; and
      (2)   The discarding of any vehicles which do not have value beyond scrap
value, and which are inoperable and unlicensed, or which are considered
abandoned due to the surrounding conditions.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and semi-solid
wastes from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving, or
consumption of food or food materials.
   GENERATION. The act or process of producing solid waste.
   GENERATOR. The person whose actions or processes result in the production of
solid waste.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The same meaning as the term LOCAL HEALTH OFFICER, as used
in I.C.16-18-2-212, and shall include his or her authorized agent.
   INERT SOLID WASTE. Shall mean earth, rocks, concrete, bricks, tiles or aged
asphalt, natural wood, brush, leaves, wood chips, or sawdust, any and all of
which is free from contaminants.
   LONG-TERM STORAGE. The maintenance or containment of solid waste for a
period of 30 days or more.
   OPEN DUMP. The consolidation of solid waste from one or more sources, or the
disposal of solid waste at a single disposal site that does not fulfill the
requirements of a sanitary landfill, or other land disposal methods as
prescribed by law or regulations, and that exists without daily cover and
without regard to the possibilities of contamination of surface, or subsurface,
water resources, air, land, or other hazard, or threat of hazard, to the
environment or safety.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership corporation, firm, company,
organization, joint stock company, municipal corporation, city, school
district, or corporation, county town association, trust, estate, government
unit, or other legal entity.
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled and unauthorized removal of materials from
solid waste at any point in the waste management system.
   SOLID WASTE. Any yard waste, garbage, refuse, rubbish, sludge, or other
discarded or disposed materials including solid, liquid, or semi-solid, or
contained gaseous material resulting from any operation, activity, or source.
   STORAGE. Proper temporary containment of waste materials for a period of no
more than 15 days, or the standard interval of local commercial collection
service, whichever is less.
   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINER. A proper and suitable receptacle used for the
temporary storage of solid waste while awaiting collection. CONTAINERS shall be
designed to prevent escape or leakage of contents, and should be resistant to
scavenging animals.
(Ord. 1993-29, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 90.32 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Recycling facilities.
      (1)   No person shall discard any materials, other than recyclables, in
any facility or container intended for collecting designated recyclable
materials.
      (2)   No person shall conduct scavenging at any facility or container
intended for collecting materials with value as a designated recyclable
material.
   (B)   Dumping.
      (1)   No person shall discard any solid waste along any roadway within
the county, unless it be in a proper solid waste storage container, and is
intended for collection and removal to a facility approved for handling such
materials.
      (2)   No person shall discard for final disposal, or for use as fill
material, any inert solid waste without the express consent of the property
owner of the final disposal site, including county road rights-of-way.
      (3)   No person shall discard for final disposal, or for use as fill
material, any inert solid waste which is mixed or adulterated with any
contaminate.
      (4)   No person shall do any dumping, or permit any dumping to take place
at any location in the county unless such location is an approved, and properly
permitted, landfill site.
(Ord. 1993-29, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 PROPERTY OWNER RIGHTS, RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of all persons owning real property in the
county to sustain diligent and good faith efforts to protect the natural
environment, and prevent illegal dumping on their property. Persons owning real
property in the county shall not cause, or allow, the disposal upon their
property of any solid waste materials.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no enforcement action
may be taken under this subchapter against a landowner on whose land waste has
been improperly disposed without the landowner’s consent, unless there has been
made a diligent and good faith effort to identify, locate, and take enforcement
action against a person, or persons, who appear likely to have committed, or
caused, the improper disposal act(s).
   (C)   Any landowner who, in good faith, provides information concerning a
name, an address, or any other evidence of a responsible person’s identity
found in wastes improperly disposed on the landowner’s property is not liable
to said person for an action taken by enforcement authorities under this
subchapter against the person as a result of information provided by the
landowner.
   (D)   The owner of the property on which improper disposal acts have
occurred may be included as a party of any enforcement action against a person
who allegedly committed the violation so that the landowner may be ordered to
allow the violator access to the land to remove, and properly dispose of, the
wastes allegedly disposed in violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   A landowner on whose land waste has been disposed in violation of this
subchapter without the landowner’s consent may, in addition to any other legal
or equitable remedy available to the landowner, recover from the person
responsible for the improper disposal reasonable expenses incurred by the
landowner in removal.
   (F)   A landowner who consents to, or allows, the disposal of wastes
generated by others upon his or her property without making a diligent and good
faith effort to prevent the improper disposal of wastes, and who fails to
notify proper authorities of said improper acts of disposal within a reasonable
period of time shall be subject to enforcement procedures, and shall be deemed
the responsible party, and shall be served notice for clean up of all wastes
deposited upon his or her property, and removal for final disposal at an
approved sanitary landfill, at the landowner’s expense.
   (G)   If a diligent and good faith effort by the Health Officer to identify,
locate, and take enforcement action against a person, or persons, who committed
prohibited acts of waste disposal has been made by county authorities, and has
failed to identify violators of acts prohibited herein, the owner of the real
estate upon which an open dump is located shall be held responsible for
correcting and controlling any nuisance conditions which may occur as a result
of the open dump.
   (H)   Materials which provide identifying information regarding the
generator shall constitute a rebuttable presumption that the generator has
deposited solid waste without the express consent of the landowner and in
violation of this subchapter. The presumption can be rebutted by proof that:
      (1)   The person obtained the express consent of the landowner; or
      (2)   The person properly placed solid waste in a waste storage container
for pick up by a licensed waste hauler.
(Ord. 1993-29, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 90.34 ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer of the county to enforce
this subchapter. The Health Officer is authorized to perform inspections in the
furtherance of fulfilling his or her duty to enforce this subchapter. Any
person violating any provision of this subchapter shall be subject to fines or
other injunctive action as specified in this subchapter.
   (B)   Violators of this subchapter shall be served a written notice of
violation either in person or by any other manner reasonably calculated to
result in actual notice, including certified mail. Such order shall state the
violation complained of, order the abatement of the violation, indicate a
method of abatement, which, if satisfactorily completed, will adequately abate
the offending violation, and provide a reasonable time for abatement.
   (C)   Abatement of a violation must be accomplished in an environmentally
safe and lawful manner pre-approved by the local Health Officer by disposal of
solid waste in an approved and properly permitted landfill.
   (D)   If the violation is not satisfactorily abated within the specified
time allowed, a second notice shall be served in the same manner as specified
for initial notices, and containing the same information specified for initial
notices. If the conditions prevail following the specified period of time, the
matter shall be referred to the attorney of the Health Officer of the County
Health Department for appropriate legal action.
   (E)   If the Health Officer identifies an emergency condition presented by
the violation, which condition presents an imminent health and safety hazard to
the citizens of the county, the Health Officer may, without notice or hearing,
issue a notice reciting the existence of the emergency, and requiring immediate
abatement by the responsible person.
(Ord. 1993-29, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 90.35 HEARINGS.
   Any person receiving any such notice of violation, as described herein, may
demand, and shall be granted, a hearing on the matter before the local Health
Board. Conduct of the hearing shall be prescribed by regulations promulgated by
the local Health Board. The local Health Board shall hear testimony, and take
evidence, on the matter, following which the Health Board shall sustain,
modify, or revoke the notice of violation issued by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 1993-29, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §
90.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished by a fine not exceeding
$100, and, if such violation continues, each days’ violation shall be a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of §
90.03 shall be guilty of an infraction or a misdemeanor.
      (1)   On conviction, the violator shall be punished for the first offense
by a fine of not more than $500; for the second offense, by a fine of not more
than $1,000; and for the third, and each subsequent offense, by a fine of not
more than $1,500.
      (2)   Any person found in violation of §
90.03 by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be liable for any litigation
expenses including, but not limited to, transportation expenses, witness fees,
and attorney fees.
   (D)   The doing of any prohibited act in §§
90.30 through
90.35, or the omission of any required act governed by §§
90.30 through
90.35 is declared to be a violation of the subchapter. Any person found to have
violated §§
90.30 through
90.35 by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be fined in an amount of up to
$2,500. Each day of the violation shall constitute a separate violation.
      (1)   In addition to fines assessed, the Health Officer may request the
court to assess court, clean up, and/or administrative cost expended by the
county in taking enforcement action.
      (2)   The Health Officer shall also be entitled to seek injunctive, or
other, relief through any appropriate county court to obtain an order to abate
the open dump condition, and prohibiting further, and future, dumping.
      (3)   If a person is found to have violated §§
90.30 through
90.35 by a court of competent jurisdiction, the court can award reasonable
attorney fees from the violator for the necessity of prosecuting an action.
(Ord. 4 1981, passed 3-16-1981; Ord. 13 1982, passed 10-12-1982; Ord. 1993-29,
passed 8-2-1993)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Enforcement
   
91.04   Restraints
   
91.05   Impoundment
   
91.06   Fees; impoundment, adoption
   
91.07   Confinement of certain animals
   
91.08   Rabies control; authority
   
91.09   Reports of bite cases
   
91.10   Responsibilities of veterinarians; exemptions
   
91.11   Neglected animals
   
91.12   Interference
   
91.13   Animal shelter records
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the objective of the County Animal Control/Shelter to provide
for the safety and health of the citizens of the county by removal of the
unwanted animal population from the public properties and neighborhoods, to
control the problem of domestic animals running at large, and to prevent the
spread of rabies.
   (B)   There is no intent to remove or separate pets from owners. Every
attempt to locate owners with their pets is made when animals with tags, or a
microchip, are impounded. In addition to its statutory duties, the County
Animal Control/Shelter will provide limited services for the citizens of the
county, including animal adoption and the assistance to individuals who have
lost or found animals.
(Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-26-2000)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Does not include a human, as defined by state law.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person employed for the purpose of enforcement
and other duties, as directed in the job description. JOB DESCRIPTION shall
mean a composite of duties, as defined by the Chief Animal Control Officer.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when the animal is off
the property of its owner, and not under control of a competent person.
   AUTHORIZED AFTER HOUR CALLS.
      (1)   Outside regular shelter hours, the Animal Control Officer will be
authorized to answer calls, initiated by the Chief Animal Control Officer, the
County Sheriff’s Department, or local police departments for the following:
         (a)   Stray domestic animals in distress;
         (b)   Stray, injured domestic animals (does not include an animal that
is just limping, or an animal that has been there for a day or so);
         (c)   Bite of a human by any animal, some cases of animal versus
animal;
         (d)   Stray, vicious animals threatening bodily harm;
         (e)   Animals left at the scene (for example, a car accident, the
owner is arrested, or the owner is deceased); and
         (f)   Any other incident deemed an emergency by the Chief Animal
Control Officer, the County Sheriff, or the local Chief of Police.
      (2)   All AFTER HOURS CALLS are judged on a case-by-case basis, and all
information is considered in the decision.
   CHIEF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person employed by the County Board of
Commissioners as its Chief Enforcement Officer.
   COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL/SHELTER. Any entity designated by action of the County
Board of Commissioners for the purpose of impounding and caring for all animals
found running at large in violation of this chapter, state law, and/or the
taking in of unwanted animals.
   CURRENTLY VACCINATED.
      (1)   The owner shows proof that the animal has been vaccinated for
rabies (within the past 12 months).
      (2)   A rabies certificate or a call to a veterinarian is proof that the
vaccination is current.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1) Shall include:
         (a)   Any animal which, according to the records of the appropriate
authority, has inflicted severe injury on a human (without provocation) on
public or private property;
         (b)   Any animal which, according to the records of the appropriate
authority, has killed or severely injured a domestic animal (without
provocation) while off the animal owner’s property;
         (c)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily, or in part, for the
purpose of animal fighting, or any animal trained for animal fighting;
         (d)   Any animal which has inflicted a fatal injury, or injuries,
resulting in broken bones or disfiguring lacerations in a provoked attack; and/
or
         (e)   Any animal which has been involved in more than one attack of
any kind.
      (2)   All animals are judged by a case-by-case basis, and all information
is considered in the decision.
   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. As defined by the state statute, cattle, calves, horses,
mules, swine, sheep, goats, dogs, cats, poultry, or other birds, and includes:
      (1)   Any animals of the bovine, equine, caprine, porcine, canine,
feline, or avian species; and
      (2)   Aquatic animals that may be the subject of aquaculture, as defined
in I.C. 15-11- 7.1.
   ENTITLED TO RESUME POSSESSION. The owner of the animal is required to
provide payment of the animal’s impoundment fees, show proof of current
vaccination, or a receipt for prepayment of vaccination for rabies, proof of
payment of the state dog tax, and other fees established by the County Animal
Control/Shelter, or applicable court order. Proof of rabies vaccination for
dogs and cats three months or older, and state dog tax for dogs six months or
older, are required by state law.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal that has been exposed to rabies, within the
meaning of this chapter, if it has been bitten or scratched by a wild,
carnivorous mammal (or bats) not available for testing, or exposed to any
animal known to have been infected with rabies.
   HUMANE REASONS. Under certain circumstances, an animal should be euthanized,
without first having to wait the usual three-day waiting period. The following
cases of injury and diseases indicate those circumstances (or injuries that
warrant immediate euthanasia):
      (1)   Any injury to the brain or spinal cord such that the animal is non-
responsive to deep pain, unless the owner can be located within 30 minutes from
the time of call;
      (2)   Any injury that has caused the abdomen to be torn open and the
bowels to be exposed, unless the owner can be located within 30 minutes from
the time of call;
      (3)   Any injury that causes the animal labored breathing, and/or shows
signs of cyanosis (for example, grayish or bluish tinge to the mucus membranes
of the lips and tongue); and/or
      (4)   Any injury that caused the chest cavity to be torn open and the
lungs and/or heart to be exposed.
   HUMANELY DESTROYED. Euthanasia by the injection of drugs approved by the
Pharmaceutical Board of the state, and recognized by the Humane Society of the
United States, and/or the American Veterinarian Medical Association.
   KENNEL. Any person, group of persons, or corporation owning, keeping, or
harboring four or more dogs or cats, and is zoned by the County Zoning
Ordinance.
   MICROCHIP. A device that can be scanned that is implanted under the surface
of the skin. This allows an animal that has lost its collar to have a number
that can be traced back to its owner.
   NOTIFICATION OF OWNERS. Any information on the animal (for example, collar,
tags, or microchip), or information obtained at the pick up location, will be
investigated in order to locate the owner. NOTIFICATION OF OWNERS will be by
telephone and/or door card. Attempts to contact the owner will continue for a
reasonable length of time. Other means deemed necessary to locate the owners
may be implemented.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, or corporation owning, keeping, or
harboring a dog, or dogs, or animals; to allow an animal to remain on property
for one week or longer.
   PENALTY FOR VIOLATING THE RUNNING AT LARGE ORDINANCE. The Animal Control
Officer will impound untagged dogs whose ownership is not known if the dog is
at large on public property. If found on private property, permission to have
the dog removed from said property will be obtained from the property owner, or
the property owner’s designee. Tagged dogs whose ownership is known may be
impounded for running at large, and may be cited for this offense. This
includes any domestic animal off an owner’s land.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Shall mean:
         (a)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a person
upon the streets, sidewalk, or any public or private property in a menacing
fashion, or apparent attitude of attack;
         (b)   Any animal with a known propensity, or disposition, for an
unprovoked attack and probability to cause injury, or to otherwise threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals; and/or
         (c)   Any animal, according to the records of the appropriate
authority, which has caused a minor injury to a domestic animal or human.
      (2)   All animals are judged by a case-by-case basis, and all information
is considered in the decision.
   PROPERTY OF THE COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL/SHELTER. The animal can be adopted
and/or humanely destroyed, as seen fit by County Animal Control/Shelter
employees. All information is considered with both the animal’s and the County
Animal Control/Shelter’s best interests in mind.
   QUARANTINE. Strict, confined observation, for a period of six months, of an
animal bitten by another animal that has been diagnosed as rabid, or an animal
showing signs of rabies has bitten a human. The owner is responsible for all
costs. QUARANTINE shall be at the County Animal Control/Shelter, or a facility
approved by the Chief Animal Control Officer. The owner is required to follow
the rules of the County Animal Control/Shelter for rabies suspects, as defined
by the State Board of Animal Health, and/or the State Veterinarian. All
QUARANTINES will be in the county.
   REASONABLE LENGTH OF TIME. Not less than three days over a seven-day period.
   REPEAT OFFENDERS. Any person who has previously had an animal in the
shelter, or a person who has received a ticket from Animal Control.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under RESTRAINT within the meaning of this chapter
if it is controlled by a leash, rope, and the like, at “heel” beside a
competent person, and/or obedient to that person’s commands.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal off the owner’s property and/or caretaker’s
property that is not under restraint or control.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. A pen with an attached top, bottom, and sides that
provides the animal with adequate shelter inside the enclosure, and is securely
locked by a padlock of sufficient size capable of securely confining the
animal. Pens must be self-standing with only one gate.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female which has been surgically rendered incapable of
reproduction, and includes NEUTERED ANIMAL, which shall mean any animal, male
or female, which has been surgically rendered incapable of reproduction.
   STRAY. A domestic animal which is lost, or whose ownership is otherwise
unknown.
   STRICT CONFINED OBSERVATIONS. To keep an animal confined in a building or
home, and not to allow the animal to come in contact with anything other than
the owner for a period of time designated by the County Animal Control/Shelter.
If the animal needs to go outside to relieve itself, it is to be physically
restrained by the owner who is at least 18 years of age, and to remain in the
owner’s yard at all times with the owner. Said owner is required to report any
unusual behavior or sickness to the County Animal Control/Shelter. All
observations and quarantines are to be in the county, and owners are required
to follow the rules of the County Animal Control/Shelter for rabies suspects,
or as defined by the State Board of Animal Health, and/or the State
Veterinarian. There can be no transfer of ownership and/or care during STRICT
CONFINED OBSERVATIONS.
   STRICT ISOLATION. As defined by the State Board of Animal Health and the
State Veterinarian.
   UNDER CONTROL. To completely regulate the animal’s actions by either verbal
command or by restraint.
   WILD ANIMAL. As defined by the County Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-26-2000)
§ 91.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter and the state’s statutes pertaining to animal
control, shall be enforced by the County Animal Control/Shelter and the County
Sheriff’s Department. The County Animal Control/Shelter remains, as the entity
designated by the County Board of Health, in the investigation and quarantine,
and/or strict confined observation, procedures concerning rabies and animal
bites. The County Animal Control/Shelter will work with the State Board of
Animal Health, and/or the State Veterinarian, concerning rabies testing of
animals that have bitten humans or other animals.
(Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-26-2000)
§ 91.04 RESTRAINTS.
   (A)   The owner shall keep his or her dog under restraint at all times, and
shall not permit such dog to be at large off the premises or property of the
owner.
   (B)   Any owner that allows a non-neutered dog or cat to run at large can be
issued a summons into court for a chapter violation.
      (1)   If the animal is neutered or spayed within ten days of the
violation, and verification is obtained from a licensed veterinarian, the
summons can be dismissed. This burden of proof is the owner’s responsibility
and must be verified by Animal Control.
      (2)   An animal may be exempt from this section when the surgical
procedures may be detrimental to the animal’s health when a licensed
veterinarian confirms this in writing, and is given to the County Animal
Control/Shelter within the ten days.
(Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-26-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Domestic animals found running at large shall be taken up by the
agents of the County Animal Control/Shelter and impounded in the shelter
designated as the County Animal Control/Shelter, or an alternate site approved
by the County Animal Control/Shelter. Said animal shall be confined in a humane
manner for a period of not less than three days, and if not claimed by the
owners thereafter shall become the property of the County Animal Control/
Shelter, and be disposed of in a humane manner or adopted at the discretion of
the said authority, except as hereinafter provided in certain cases.
   (B)   This section refers to any animal(s) picked up by the Animal Control
Officers, or brought to the County Animal Control/Shelter by citizens.
   (C)   Persons surrendering animal(s) will be given a surrender form
concerning minimum holding periods, adoptions, and euthanasia, which must be
signed before the animal is accepted by the County Animal Control/Shelter
employees.
   (D)   Immediately upon impoundment of any animal, the agents of the County
Animal Control/Shelter shall make reasonable effort to notify the owner (if an
owner is known) of the conditions whereby he or she may regain custody of such
animal(s).
   (E)   Animals picked up or brought to the County Animal Control/Shelter
whose ownership is unknown shall be held in the County Animal Control/Shelter
for a minimum of three working days (72 hours), unless sick (showing signs of
parvo, distemper, blood in stool, listlessness, and the like), or injured.
   (F)   Animals picked up or brought to the County Animal Control/Shelter
whose ownership is known must be held in the County Animal Control/Shelter
until a specific situation, or for a period, as specified in divisions (F)(1)
and (F)(2) below, arises.
      (1)   In the case of surrendered animals:
         (a)   The owner signs a release form requesting that the animal be
euthanized in the best interest of the animal, and/or to protect the other
animals in the County Animal Control/Shelter from disease (the County Animal
Control/Shelter employees have the right to refuse to euthanize the animal if
they determine the animal is adoptable);
         (b)   The animal is adopted, or it has been held for at least 24
hours;
         (c)   An owner who has surrendered his or her animal, but has not
signed the statement for the animal to be euthanized, may change his or her
mind, but the animal must be redeemed only by the adoption process;
         (d)   Owner-surrendered animals can be placed on hold for adoption
upon the time of surrender; and/or
         (e)   The owner bringing in an animal that cannot be adopted will be
advised that the animal will be euthanized as soon as possible (for example,
biter, sick, wild, or livestock-killing animals are not adoptable).
      (2)   In the case of animals picked up at large:
         (a)   The owner redeems the animal in accordance to §
91.06(A);
         (b)   The court orders disposition of the animal;
         (c)   Upon expiration of at least three working days (72 hours) after
the owner of an animal that is not properly tagged or microchipped has been
notified, and the owner refuses to reclaim the animal, then the animal becomes
property of the County Animal Control/Shelter;
         (d)   Animals properly tagged and microchipped will be held until the
owner properly reclaims or surrenders the animal, or until disposal is ordered
by the court. If an owner refuses to reclaim the animal within five days after
notification has been made, unless there is pending legal action, the animal
becomes property of the County Animal Control/Shelter; and/or
         (e)   If the County Animal Control/Shelter has made a reasonable
effort to notify the owner of a tagged and microchipped animal and have been
unsuccessful, the animal becomes the property of the County Animal Control/
Shelter after seven days.
   (G)   When dogs are found running at large, and their ownership is known to
the agents of the County Animal Control/Shelter, such dogs need not be
impounded, however the agent may, at his or her discretion, cite the owner of
the dogs to appear in court to answer to charges of violation of this chapter.
   (H)   There is no cat leash law. Cats will not be picked up for running at
large. However, the County Animal Control/Shelter can pick up cats that are
reported to be stray, if contained. In the case of owned cats running at large,
the complainant has a legal right to utilize a humane trap for the purpose of
containing the animal to bring to the County Animal Control/Shelter.
   (I)   The owner shall be entitled to resume possession of any animal
impounded, except as hereinafter provided, upon payment of impoundment fees set
forth herein in §
91.06(A).
   (J)   Any stray animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter, and
not reclaimed by its owner within three days, becomes the property of the
County Animal Control/Shelter.
(Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-26-2000)
§ 91.06 FEES; IMPOUNDMENT, ADOPTION.
   (A)   Impoundment fees.
      (1)   Any impounded animal may be reclaimed, as herein provided, upon
payment of impoundment fees by the owner to the County Animal Control/Shelter.
The amount of the impoundment fees set forth herein shall be collected by the
County Animal Control/Shelter and periodically turned over to the County
Auditor for deposit to the County General Fund.
      (2)   An impoundment fee of $30 shall be charged for a dog, cat, or a
small animal, such as rabbits, poultry, small birds, and small exotics.
      (3)   The initial impoundment fees will double for repeat offenders, and
will continue to double for each offense (for example, $60, $120, $240, and the
like). The County Animal Control/Shelter, through its agents, can seek
prosecution of repeat offenders. After a time span of one year from the last
offense, and there has been no impoundment of animals in the former offender’s
care, the impoundment fees will go back to the starting fees of $30, and will
go up accordingly.
         (a)   Before an animal’s release from the County Animal Control/
Shelter, the owner must provide proof of current vaccination for rabies, or a
prepaid receipt from a licensed veterinarian for vaccination to be done.
         (b)   At this time, the owner can request that the animal be
microchipped by the County Animal Control/Shelter. The cost of the microchip
and registration will be at the owner’s expense.
      (4)   An impoundment fee of $50 shall be charged for any impounded
livestock, equine, wild animal, or large exotic animal upon owner claim. The
owner will also pay for any, and all, hauling fees and maintenance fees. If the
animal is not claimed within three days, the animal can be put up for adoption,
or disposed of, in accordance with the law.
         (a)   Maintenance fees are $20 per day.
         (b)   A hauling fee of $30 will be charged if the stock trailer is
used to move the animal.
      (5)   A donation of $10 will be requested for the disposal of any owned,
deceased animals brought to the County Animal Control/Shelter. Animals that are
dead over 24 hours may be refused if the body is in bad condition or if animal
is too large (over 200 pounds).
      (6)   A donation fee of $30 will be requested for the euthanasia of an
animal.
   (B)   Adoption fees.
      (1)   Adoption fees for animals at the County Animal Control/Shelter
shall be as follows:
         (a)   Mice, rats, guinea pigs, hamsters, rabbits, small birds, and the
like will be $10;
         (b)   Small exotics animals and farm animals (such as goats and pigs)
will be $40;
         (c)   Large farm animals (not including equine) will be $100;
         (d)   Equine fees will be placed on the individual animal, and to
follow the rules in division (B)(1)(f) below;
         (e)   Dogs and cats will be $70;
         (f)   For animals not listed above, a fee will be placed on a case-by-
case basis. Fees will be set by the Chief Animal Control Officer and a
representative from the State Division of Companion Animal/Equine Office. Fees
will be set by using the cost of boarding, veterinarian care, and the like; and
         (g)   A fee of $5 per day can be charged in addition to the adoption
fees to a new owner if a hold has been placed on an animal, and he or she asks
if the County Animal Control/Shelter can hold onto the animal past the 24-hour
waiting period, and the animal remains in the County Animal Control/Shelter.
This can only be done if there is room at the County Animal Control/Shelter to
house the animal.
      (2)   All animals adopted that can be surgically rendered incapable of
reproduction will be (such as dogs, cats, and male horses). The cost will be at
the new owner’s expense. Failure to have this done will result in a chapter
violation (see §
91.99). Some cases will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. All adopted
animals that can be, will be microchipped (for example, dogs, cats, and
equine). The cost of the microchip and registration to be at the owner’s
expense, paid by a money order at the time of the adoption, and is mailed out
by the Animal Control.
         (a)   Adopted animals that are age 12 weeks or older, for which there
is an approved vaccine, will have to have a current rabies vaccination, or
proof of prepaid vaccination to be given within four days after adoption.
         (b)   Animals that are adopted will have to have a current distemper
vaccination, or proof of prepaid vaccination to be given within four days after
adoption.
      (3)   A person who signs the adoption paperwork adopting an animal cannot
give the animal to a different owner before the animal is spayed or neutered
and vaccinated in accordance with the adoption contract. If the animal is given
away before that time, it will be a violation of this chapter. The original
adopters are the ones that are responsible for the animals.
      (4)   No animal shall be euthanized until after its required holding time
has expired unless, in the judgment of the County Animal Control/Shelter or its
agents, an animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, or for sickness. At
no time will the lives of healthy, adoptable animals be jeopardized solely to
comply with the three-day waiting period by housing animals exhibiting signs of
any infectious diseases.
      (5)   The County Board of Commissioners may waive the aforementioned fees
in division (B)(1) above for a specific adoption event conducted for a limited
duration upon recommendation by the direct of the Animal Shelter.
   (6)   The County Board of Commissioners may approve the County Animal
Control Advisory Group, the County Humane Society, or a similar organization to
assist the County Animal Control Department in evaluating the quality of a
rescue group before a rescue group receives any animals from the County Animal
Control/Shelter under this division (B).
         (a)   If the County Board of Commissioners does not approve an
organization form to assist in the evaluation of rescue groups, the provisions
of this division (B), including the waiver of fees, are not applicable. Any
rescue group interested in receiving animals from the shelter will complete an
application provided by the County Animal Control. After an application has
been submitted and the rescue group is approved, the approved rescue group may
receive animals from the shelter, and the adoption fees will be waived.
         (b)   The County Animal Control will place a microchip in animals
given to the rescue groups, and the rescue group will be required to register
the microchip. There will be no charge for the placement of the microchip.
(Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-26-2000; Ord. 2006-16, passed 7-18-2006; Ord. 2012-20,
passed - -; Ord. 2014-10, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 91.07 CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officers shall make a determination as to whether
an animal fits the dangerous, or potentially dangerous, category based on
complaints or other information. The Animal Control Officers shall investigate
these complaints, or the information, to determine if, in fact, the animal is
dangerous, or potentially dangerous. This shall be done on a case-by-case
basis.
      (1)   (a)   If the Animal Control Officers determine that an animal is
dangerous, or potentially dangerous, the Animal Control Officers shall issue a
written determination setting forth the findings that support this
determination.
         (b)   The written determination shall be dated and include an itemized
estimate of the reasonable expenses the County Animal Control/Shelter expects
to incur for the care of the animal from the time of the written determination
to a minimum of 30 days thereafter. Such expenses shall include, but are not
limited to, kennel fees and the estimated cost of emergency and routine
veterinary care.
      (2)   On the date the Animal Control Officers make a written
determination that an animal is either dangerous, or potentially dangerous, the
County Animal Control/Shelter shall provide notification to the owner(s) of the
animal that the animal has either been deemed dangerous, or potentially
dangerous, and the animal shall be confined at the County Animal Control/
Shelter.
      (3)   Following the date the County Animal Control/Shelter provided
notification to the owner(s) of the animal under (A)(2) above, the following
action shall be taken:
         (a)   If, following notification to the owner(s), the owner(s) signs a
release form requesting that the dangerous, or potentially dangerous, animal be
humanely destroyed, then the County Animal Control/Shelter may, in its
discretion, have the animal humanely destroyed; and
         (b)   If, following notification to the owner(s), the owner(s) agrees
that the animal is either a dangerous, or potentially dangerous, animal and
agrees, in writing, to comply with all the requirements set forth in this
section regarding confinement of certain animals, then the County Animal
Control/Shelter shall release the animal to the owner(s).
      (4)   The owner(s) may appeal the determination of the Animal Control
Officers that an animal is either a dangerous, or potentially dangerous, animal
as follows:
         (a)   No later than 15 days following written notification of the
owner(s), the owner(s) shall:
            1.   Submit a written request to the County Board of Commissioners;
and
            2.   Posts with the County Clerk’s Office a bond in the amount
specified by the Animal Control Officers’ written determination. The owner(s)
may renew a bond by posting a new bond, in an amount sufficient to provide for
the animal’s care and keeping for at least an additional 30 days, not later
than ten days after the expiration of the period for which a pervious bond was
posted. If a bond expires, the County Animal Control/Shelter may, in its
discretion, humanely destroy the animal.
         (b)   The County Board of Commissioners shall hear any appeal of the
determination of the Animal Control Officers. The Board shall take action on
any appeal within 30 days of the date the Board receives a written request. The
Board may either affirm or reverse the written determination of the Animal
Control Officers. If the Board of Commissioners fail to take action within 30
days, then the determination of the Animal Control Officers is automatically
affirmed.
         (c)   Once disposition of the animal is determined, any bond posted
shall be released to the County Animal Control/Shelter to cover the costs for
confinement of the animal and care of said animal for the number of days the
animal was in custody of the County Animal Control/Shelter. Any unused portions
of the bond shall be returned to the individual who posted the bond.
      (5)   If the Animal Control Officers have not been able to provide
notification to the owners within a reasonable length of time, and the owner(s)
decline to sign a release as set out in division (A)(3)(a) above, or fails or
refuses to agree in writing to comply with all of the requirements set forth in
this section as required by division (A)(3)(b) above, or fails to file a timely
appeal under division (A)(4) above, then the County Animal Control/Shelter may,
in its discretion, humanely destroy the animal.
   (B)   The owner shall confine, within a building or secure enclosure, every
fierce, dangerous, or vicious animal, and not take such animal out of such
building, or secure enclosure, unless such animal is securely muzzled and a
leash is secured to a choker chain around the animal’s neck, and the owner is
in complete control of the leash. The animal shall not be removed from the
enclosure by anyone but the owner, who must be 18 years of age or older. A
warning sign and a padlock of sufficient size to be capable of securely
confining the animal must be on all gates that enter the area of confinement.
If the animal is inside the home, the door to the confined area must be secure
and must be locked while the animal is in the home. This animal must be
microchipped by a licensed veterinarian or the County Animal Control/Shelter,
and the number kept on file at the County Animal Control/Shelter. For as long
as this animal is in the county, Animal Control Officers will make periodic
inspections to verify that compliance with the conditions for which the animal
is to be kept are met. This animal is not to be given away or taken away
without the County Animal Control/Shelter knowing where the animal is to be
housed. The cost of the microchip and registration to be at the owner’s
expense.
   (C)   The owner shall confine every potentially dangerous animal within a
six-foot high fenced in a yard, or secure enclosure pen that is constructed so
that the animal cannot get out. The owner shall not take the animal out unless
said animal is under control on a leash, with a choke collar attached, at all
times. The animal is not to be allowed to run free, and must be with the owner,
who must be 18 years of age or older. A warning sign and a padlock of
sufficient size to be capable of securely confining the animal must be on all
gates that enter the area of confinement. If the animal is inside the home, the
door to the confined area must be secure and must be locked while the animal is
in the home. This animal must be microchipped by a licensed veterinarian or the
County Animal Control/Shelter, and the number kept on file at the County Animal
Control/Shelter. For as long as this animal is in the county, Animal Control
Officers will make periodic inspections to verify that compliance with the
conditions for which the animal is to be kept are met. This animal is not to be
given away or taken away without the County Animal Control/Shelter knowing
where the animal is to be housed. The cost of the microchip and registration to
be at the owner’s expense.
      (1)   It is the owner’s responsibility to conspicuously place a sign on
every dangerous, or potentially dangerous, animal’s enclosure warning people
that a dangerous, or potentially dangerous, animal is kept there.
      (2)   If the owner or keeper of an animal that has been deemed dangerous,
or potentially dangerous, is unwilling, or unable, to comply with the above
regulation for keeping such animal, then the owner or keeper must have the
animal humanely euthanized, destroyed by either a veterinarian or the County
Animal Control/Shelter, after any required holding period. Any animal that has
been designated dangerous, or potentially dangerous, may not be offered for
adoption.
      (3)   Any dangerous animal shall be immediately confiscated by an Animal
Control Officer if:
         (a)   The animal is not maintained in a proper enclosure; or
         (b)   The animal is outside of the proper enclosure and not under
proper restraint. In addition, the owner may be cited for a chapter violation.
      (4)   Once an animal has been deemed a dangerous, or potentially
dangerous, animal and attacks or bites a person or domestic animal, the owner
may be cited. In addition, the dangerous animal shall be quarantined at the
County Animal Control/Shelter.
      (5)   When an animal running at large appears to be an immediate physical
threat to the public or other animals, and it cannot be safely, or humanely,
captured by the Animal Control Officers, an officer of the law may be called
and requested to destroy the animal as a last resort.
   (D)   Every female dog in heat shall be kept confined in a building or
secure enclosure, or in a veterinary hospital or boarding kennel, in such
manner that said female dog cannot come into contact with another animal,
except for breeding purposes, as the owner shall desire.
   (E)   No wild animal may be kept within the county limits, except under such
conditions as shall be fixed by the County Planning and Zoning Department, and
the state.
   (F)   Any at large animal described in this section shall be impounded by
the County Animal Control/Shelter, and may not be redeemed by its owner unless
such redemption is authorized by a court having jurisdiction. This provision
shall also apply to animals found to be in violation of §
91.08(A). Any animal impounded for being a dangerous, or potentially dangerous,
animal may not be redeemed unless such redemption is authorized by a court
having jurisdiction. The owner will be responsible for all fines and fees, and
proof of all vaccinations before the release of the animal.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 6-26-2018) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 RABIES CONTROL; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Rabies control.
      (1)   Any animal which bites a human being shall be promptly reported to
the County Animal Control/Shelter and shall thereupon be placed under strict
confined observation, at the direction of the County Animal Control/Shelter,
for a period of time designated by the County Animal Control/Shelter, and shall
not be released from strict confined observation, except by permission of the
County Animal Control/Shelter. If the animal’s rabies vaccination are current,
such strict confined observation may be on the premises of the owner, at the
County Animal Control/Shelter (at the owner’s option and expense), or in a
county veterinary hospital or boarding kennel of the owner’s choice, who is
willing to, and is equipped to, provide the proper strict confined observation.
In the case of stray animals, or in the case of animals whose ownership is
unknown or if the owned animal is unvaccinated, such strict confined
observation shall, at the owner’s option and expense, be at the County Animal
Control/Shelter, or in a county veterinary hospital or boarding kennel of the
owner’s choice. Animals that scratch will be place under strict confined
observation. Such strict confined observation may be on the premises of the
owner. The length of time will be ten days from time of the bite, in a normal
situation. During this time, the animal cannot have any vaccinations in
accordance with state law. All dogs and cats at three months of age must have a
current rabies vaccination; failure to do so will be a chapter violation.
         (a)   Any animal that has bitten a human being, be it domestic or
wild, is considered a rabies suspect until proven otherwise.
         (b)   Any unowned animal exhibiting signs of rabies shall be
euthanized immediately, and the brain sent to the state laboratory. The most
classic signs of rabies are: hydrophobia; extreme aggression; disorientation;
foaming at the mouth; high fever; ataxia; or staggering. No animal will show
all the signs, and some animals that have rabies will not show any of the
signs.
         (c)   Currently vaccinated animals can be placed under strict confined
observation at the owner’s home if the owner has the facilities to handle a
rabies suspect that complies with the rules of the County Animal Control/
Shelter. This decision shall be at the discretion of the County Animal Control/
Shelter as to if the owner’s home is sufficient. If the owner has indicated by
action, words, or deed signs of not willing to cooperate fully, the animal will
be taken to the animal shelter for the remainder of the strict confined
observation at the owner’s expense.
      (2)   Unvaccinated animals, or animals otherwise suspected of having
rabies, are to be place under strict confined observation, at the owner’s
expense, at the County Animal Control/Shelter, in a veterinary clinic, or a
boarding kennel. These facilities must be willing to accept the responsibility
of the suspect animal and be properly equipped for strict confined observation,
providing it is within the county. The owner’s home is not sufficient
confinement for these rabies suspects.
         (a)   Some cases are judged case-by-case with all information taken
into consideration (for example, impute from a veterinarian, the animal’s age,
or if it is sick or injured).
         (b)   At the owner’s discretion, the animal may be euthanized and have
the brain sent to the state laboratory for a quick diagnosis.
      (3)   Wild animals that have bitten shall be euthanized immediately. The
head will be sent to the state laboratory.
      (4)   In cases of domestic animals attacking other domestic animals:
         (a)   For vaccinated biters, the biter will be placed under strict
confined observation at the owner’s home for a period of time as shall be fixed
by the County Animal Control/Shelter (ten days from time of bite);
         (b)   For unvaccinated biters, the biter will be placed under strict
confined observation at the County Animal Control/Shelter for a period of time
(ten days from time of bite). Before release will be granted, proof of
appointment and a prepaid rabies vaccination with a licensed veterinarian must
be provided. Revaccination must be within 24 hours after release from the
shelter;
         (c)   For a vaccinated bite victim, when the biter cannot be found,
the victim must be revaccinated immediately and placed under observation at the
owner’s home for 45 days from the time of bite; and
         (d)   For an unvaccinated bite victim, when the biter cannot be found,
the owner should have the animal euthanized immediately. If the owner is
unwilling to have this done, the victim is placed under strict isolation for
six months, and is to be vaccinated one month before release. The owner’s home
is sufficient if the owner has the proper facilities for the strict isolation.
If not, the animal will be placed under strict isolation at the County Animal
Control/Shelter. The cost is to be the owner’s responsibility, and is to be
prepaid up front. For failure to prepay within three days from the start of
strict isolation at the shelter, the animal can be euthanized.
      (5)   Some cases of animals attacking animals will be evaluated on a
case-by-case basis. This decision shall be made in conjunction with the State
Board of Animal Health and the State Veterinarian.
      (6)   All animals placed under strict confined observation, strict
isolation, and/or quarantine must remain within the county for the duration of
this period. The cost is the owner’s responsibility. Some cases will be
evaluated on a case-by-case basis, and all information considered.
      (7)   The owner or keeper shall surrender, upon demand of the County
Animal Control/Shelter, any animal which has bitten a human, or is suspected of
having been exposed to rabies, for supervised strict confined observation,
strict isolation, and/or quarantine, with the expenses being borne by the
owner.
      (8)   The animal may be reclaimed by the owner:
         (a)   At the completion of the observation period from the time of
bite;
         (b)   If the animal is determined to be free of rabies at the time of
the bite;
         (c)   Upon payment of fees to the County Animal Control/Shelter; and/
or
         (d)   After proof is given to the Animal Control/Shelter of prepayment
of a rabies vaccination, and proof of appointment to have the animal vaccinated
by a licensed veterinarian within 24 hours after release from the shelter.
      (9)   For animals not reclaimed after the observation:
         (a)   If there is no contact from the animal’s owner after the release
from observation within three days, the animal becomes the property of the
County Animal Control/Shelter and it will be euthanized; or
         (b)   If the owner makes contact with the County Animal Control/
Shelter, and does not know if he or she wants the animal back and leaves the
animal, then a time of three days will be given, and if the owner does not come
back to get the animal it becomes the property of the County Animal Control/
Shelter, and it will be euthanized.
      (10)   When an animal under observation and/or quarantine has been
diagnosed as being rabid, or suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being
rabid, or dies while under observation, the County Animal Control/Shelter shall
immediately send the head of such animal to the State Health Department for
pathological examination. The County Animal Control/Shelter shall then notify
the proper public health officer of reports of human contacts, and the
diagnosis of the suspected animal.
      (11)   When reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the County
Animal Control/Shelter shall recommend a countywide quarantine for a period of
45 days. Upon the invoking of such quarantine, no animal shall be taken into
the streets, or permitted to be in the streets, during such quarantine period
unless the animal is under control on a leash, with a choke collar, and must be
with the owner who must be 18 years of age or older. During such quarantine, no
animal shall be taken or shipped from the county without written permission of
the County Animal Control/Shelter. Such decision shall be made in conjunction
with the State Board of Animal Health and the State Veterinarian.
      (12)   Any stray animal that has been bitten by an animal adjudged to be
rabid shall be destroyed immediately, and tested by the State Rabies Lab.
         (a)   If an animal is found in violation of the strict confined
observation, strict isolation, and/or quarantine guidelines, then the remainder
of the strict observation, strict isolation, and/or quarantine will take place
at the County Animal Control/Shelter, at the owner’s expense. Some cases will
have to be prepaid within three days.
         (b)   Some cases of expired vaccinations will be evaluated on an case-
by-case basis in conjunction with the State Board of Animal Health and the
State Veterinarian.
      (13)   In the event of additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended for
an additional six months, or such other period as the County Animal Control/
Shelter may deem necessary. Such decision shall be made in conjunction with the
State Board of Animal Health and the State Veterinarian.
      (14)   The carcass of a dead animal exposed to rabies shall, upon demand,
be surrendered to the County Animal Control/Shelter.
      (15)   The County Animal Control/Shelter shall direct the disposition of
any animal found to be infected with rabies, in conjunction with the State
Board of Animal Health and the State Veterinarian.
      (16)   Any person refusing to surrender to the County Animal Control/
Shelter any animal suspected of being rabid, or exposed to rabies, for strict
confined observation, strict isolation, quarantine, or destruction, may be
deemed guilty of a chapter violation.
   (B)   Authority. The County Animal Control/Shelter has been named the
designee in the investigation and strict confined observation, strict
isolation, and quarantine procedures concerning rabies and animal bites within
the county for the County Health Department.
(Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-26-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 REPORTS OF BITE CASES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every physician, or other practitioner, to
report to the County Animal Control/Shelter, as soon as possible, the names and
addresses of persons treated for bites inflicted by animals that live in the
county, together with such other information as will be helpful in rabies
control.
   (B)   The County Animal Control/Shelter will respond to these bite cases at
all times, day or night. If the animal lives outside of the county, the report
should go to the State Board of Animal Health, as soon as possible. The County
Animal Control/Shelter is not responsible for these cases.
(Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-26-2000)
§ 91.10 RESPONSIBILITIES OF VETERINARIANS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the
County Animal Control/Shelter the diagnosis of any animal observed as a rabies
suspect.
   (B)   Hospitals, clinics, and other premises operated by a licensed
veterinarian for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter, except where such duties are expressly stated.
(Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-26-2000)
§ 91.11 NEGLECTED ANIMALS.
   (A)   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter, and
to enforce its provisions, any agent of the County Animal Control/Shelter is
empowered to enter upon any property in which any animal is kept, or harbored,
in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner, and the officer may demand to examine
such animal, and to take possession of such animal when, in the officer’s
opinion, it requires humane treatment.
   (B)   The requirements for humane treatment are:
      (1)   Animals must be provided with adequate shelter, so that an animal
is kept warm and dry, and protected from the sun and all weather. Livestock
does not always require shelter (for further information, see division (B)(4)
below);
      (2)   Animals must be provided with adequate exercise space. The size of
the animal will be taken into consideration;
      (3)   Animals must be provided with clean water at all times, in a
container that cannot be overturned by the animal. Animals must also be fed on
a daily basis; and
      (4)   All investigations are judged on an individual basis, with all
information taken into consideration.
   (C)   If an agent of the County Animal Control/Shelter takes possession of
an animal under this section, the Animal Control Officers shall issue a written
determination setting forth the findings that support this determination.
      (1)   The written determination shall be dated and include an itemized
estimate of the reasonable expenses the County Animal Control/Shelter expects
to incur for the care of the animal from the time of the written determination
to a minimum of 30 days thereafter. Such expenses shall include, but are not
limited to, kennel fees and the estimated cost of emergency and routine
veterinary care.
      (2)   Following the date the County Animal Control/Shelter provided
notification to the owner(s) of the animal under division (C)(1) above, the
following action shall be taken:
         (a)   If, following notification to the owner(s), he or she signs a
release form requesting that the animal be adopted or humanely destroyed, then
the County Animal Control/Shelter, in its discretion, may have the animal
adopted or humanely destroyed; and
         (b)   Owner(s) may appeal the determination of the Animal Control
Officers that an animal is either a dangerous, or potentially dangerous, animal
as follows:
            1.   No later than 15 days following the written notification to
the owner(s), the owner(s) shall:
               a.   Submit a written request to the County Board of
Commissioners; and
               b.   Post with the County Clerk’s Office a bond in the amount
specified by the Animal Control Officers’ written determination. The owner may
renew a bond by posting a new bond in an amount sufficient to provide for the
animal’s care and keeping for at least an additional 30 days not later than ten
days after the expiration of the period for which a pervious bond was posted.
If a bond expires, the County Animal Control/Shelter may, in its discretion,
humanely destroy the animal.
            2.   The County Board of Commissioners shall hear any appeal of the
determination of the Animal Control Officers. The Board shall take action on
any appeal within 30 days of the date the Board receives a written request. The
Board may either affirm or reverse the written determination of the Animal
Control Officers. If the County Board of Commissioners fails to take action
within 30 days, then the determination of the Animal Control Officers is
automatically affirmed.
            3.   Once disposition of the animal is determined, any bond posted
shall be released to the County Animal Control/Shelter to cover the costs for
confinement of the animal and care of said animal for the number of days the
animal was in custody of the County Animal Control/Shelter. Any unused portions
of the bond shall be returned to the individual who posted the bond.
         (c)   If the Animal Control Officers have not been able to provide
notification of owners within a reasonable length of time, and the owner(s)
decline to sign a release set out in division (C)(2)(a) above, or the owner(s)
fail to file a timely appeal to the County Board of Commissioners of the
written determination made by the Animal Control Officers under division (C)(2)
(b) above, then the County Animal Control/Shelter may, in its discretion,
either place the animal in an adoptive home or humanely destroy the animal.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 6-26-2018)
§ 91.12 INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall interfere with, hinder, or obstruct any agent of the County
Animal Control/Shelter in the performance of any duty of such agent, or seek to
release any animal in custody of the County Animal Control/Shelter, or its
agents, except as herein provided.
(Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-26-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 ANIMAL SHELTER RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the County Animal Control/Shelter to keep, or
cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of the impoundment and
disposition of all animals taken into its custody.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the County Animal Control/Shelter to keep, or
cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of all bite cases reported to
it, and its investigation of the same.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the County Animal Control/Shelter to keep, or
cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of all money belonging to the
county with said records open to inspection, at reasonable times, by such
persons responsible for similar records of the county. The records shall be
audited by the State Board of Accounts annually in the same manner as other
records of the county are audited.
(Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-26-2000)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a chapter violation and punished by a fine not exceeding $500, and if such
violation continues, each day’s violation shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-26-2000)
CHAPTER 92: RECREATION AND LEISURE
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Lowering of flags
Public Pools and Spas
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Permits; fees
   
92.17   Minimum requirements
   
92.18   Compliance; inspections, authority
   
92.19   Violation
Temporary Campgrounds
   
92.30   Plan review
   
92.31   Definitions
   
92.32   Minimum sanitation requirements
   
92.33   Right of entry
   
92.34   Inspection fees
   
92.35   Compliance; enforcement
   
92.36   Violations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 LOWERING OF FLAGS.
   The county government will lower the flag(s) to half-staff in accordance
with the following:
   (A)   The county will honor all requests of the President of the United
States pertaining to the flags;
   (B)   The county will honor all requests of the Governor pertaining to
flags;
   (C)   Only the county flag will fly at half-staff for three days for the
death of a current local elected official;
   (D)   Only the county flag will fly at half-staff for half a day during the
time of the funeral for a current employee; and
   (E)   No flag will be lowered for the death of a former employee.
(Res. 14-20, passed 4-8-2014)
PUBLIC POOLS AND SPAS
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FULL-TIME POOL. Any public, or semi-public, pool that operates for more
than six months per calendar year.
      HABITUAL NON-COMPLIANCE. Any repeat violation shown on three consecutive
county inspection report forms.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The Executive Officer of the County Health Department, or
the HEALTH OFFICER’S authorized representative.
      NOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATION. An organization recognized by the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service as a non-profit, and files a non-profit application
for sales tax exemption, and timely files a non-profit organization’s annual
report with the State Department of Revenue.
      PUBLIC POOL. Any pool, other than those pools defined as a semi-public
pool, which is intended to be used for swimming or bathing, and is operated by
a concessionaire, owner, lessee, operator, or licensee, regardless of whether a
fee is charged for use. Nothing in this definition shall be construed as
applying to any pool, constructed at a one- or two-family dwelling, and
maintained by an individual for the sole use of the household and house guests.
      SEASONAL POOL. Any public or semi-public pool that is operated outdoors
for less than six months each year.
      SEMI-PUBLIC POOL.
         (a)   Any pool that is intended to be used for swimming or bathing,
and is operated solely for, and in conjunction with:
            1.   Schools, universities, and colleges;
            2.   Hotels, motels, apartments, condominiums, bed and breakfasts,
or similar lodgings;
            3.   Camps or mobile home parks; or
            4.   Membership clubs or associations.
         (b)   Nothing in this definition shall be construed as applying to any
pool, constructed at a one- or two-family dwelling, and maintained by an
individual for the sole use of the household and house guests.
      SPA.
         (a)   A pool designed for recreational and/or therapeutic use, which
is not drained, cleaned, and refilled after each use.
         (b)   The term may include, but is not limited to:
            1.   Hydro-jet circulation;
            2.   Hot water;
            3.   Cold water;
            4.   Mineral baths;
            5.   Air induction systems; or
            6.   Any combination thereof.
      SWIMMING POOL. Any structure, basin, chamber, or tank containing water
for swimming, diving, or recreational bathing. This term includes diving pools,
therapeutic pools, and wave pools.
      WADING POOL. A pool used for bathing that has a maximum depth of two
feet.
   (B)   However, nothing in this section shall be construed as applying to any
swimming pool, wading pool, or spa constructed at, and maintained by, an
individual for the sole use of the household and house guests.
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 92.16 PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   Permits. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a public, or
semi-public, swimming pool, public, or semi-public, wading pool, or public, or
semi-public, spa in the county who does not possess a valid permit from the
Health Officer, except when the entire operation is receiving inspections by an
appropriate state or federal governmental agency.
      (1)   Valid county pool/spa permits shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at all times.
      (2)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of this
subchapter will be entitled to receive, and retain, such a permit.
      (3)   A permit for a swimming pool, wading pool, or spa shall be for a
term of one year, and shall be renewed annually.
      (4)   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name of
the facility, the address of the facility, and other pertinent information
required by the Health Officer.
      (5)   Required permits shall be provided by the County Health Officer if
a completed application, and appropriate fee, are presented and the swimming
pool, wading pool, or spa complies with all applicable requirements.
      (6)   A separate permit shall be required for each swimming pool, wading
pool, or spa operated, or to be operated, by any person. Any permit issued
under this subchapter is not transferable from one person to another person,
from one facility to another, or from one type of operation to another.
   (B)   Permit fees. All permitted swimming pool, wading pool, or spa
operators must pay permit fees as specified in §
37.28.
   (C)   Permit fee exception. No permit fee shall be required for swimming
pools, wading pools, or spas operated by not-for-profit organizations. Such
establishments shall comply with all other provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 8-14-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. Each public swimming pool, public wading pool,
or public spa shall comply with the minimum requirements specified in the State
Administrative Code, 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1, two copies of which are kept on file in
the County Clerk’s Office for public inspection.
   (B)   Facilities to be kept clean; closure summary.
      (1)   All shower rooms, dressing rooms, equipment rooms, and appurtenant
facilities shall be kept clean at all times. Daily disinfection of the areas
may be required.
      (2)   When a bathing area is in such condition as to pose an imminent
threat to the health of the public, the Department may order the bathing area
to be closed temporarily until such time as conditions are brought into
compliance with the minimum requirements. This action may be taken by issuing
an order in writing.
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 92.18 COMPLIANCE; INSPECTIONS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Compliance and inspection.
      (1)   The Health Officer shall establish an inspection schedule to ensure
that all permitted swimming pools, wading pools, and spas are inspected at
least one time per month. More frequent inspection may be assigned at the
discretion of the Health Officer.
      (2)   If, during the inspection of any swimming pool, wading pool, or
spa, the Health Officer, or the Health Officer’s representative, discovers a
violation of any of the requirements in division (B) below, he or she shall
issue a written order listing such violation to the proprietor or, in the
proprietor’s absence, to the person in charge, and setting a date by which the
violation shall be abated. A copy of the written order shall be filed with the
records of the Health Department.
      (3)   If, upon a follow-up inspection, the Health Officer finds that a
swimming pool, wading pool, spa, person, or employee is violating any
provisions of this subchapter, which were in violation on the previous
inspection, and concerning which a written order was issued, the Health Officer
may do either, or both, of the following:
         (a)   Promptly issue a written order to the permittee of the swimming
pool, wading pool, or spa to appear at a certain time and place in the county
in order to show cause as to why the permit issued under the provisions of §
92.16(A) should not be revoked; and/or
         (b)   Furnish evidence of the violation to the county legal
representatives for enforcement.
      (4)   The Health Officer, upon a hearing with the permittee, if the
permittee should fail to show cause as to why his or her permit should not be
revoked, may revoke the permit and promptly give written notice of the action
to the permittee. The Health Officer shall maintain a permanent record of
proceedings, filed in the office of the County Health Department.
      (5)   Any permit issued under this subchapter may be temporarily
suspended by the Health Officer, without notice or hearing, for a period not to
exceed 30 days for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Unsanitary or other conditions which the Health Officer
determines may endanger the public health;
         (b)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his
or her duties; and/or
         (c)   Habitual non-compliance with the requirements set forth by the
State Department of Health, or by this subchapter.
      (6)   Any person whose permit has been suspended may, at any time, make
application to the Health Officer for reinstatement of his or her permit.
   (B)   Authority to inspect, copy records. All swimming pool, wading pool, or
spa operators shall, upon the request of the Health Officer, permit the Health
Officer access to all parts of the establishment, and shall permit the Health
Officer to collect evidence and/or exhibits, and to routinely inspect,
investigate complaints, and copy any or all records relative to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 92.19 VIOLATION.
   In addition to the foregoing, civil penalties, which may include injunctive
relief, may be imposed under state law on any person who violates any provision
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 8-14-2018)
TEMPORARY CAMPGROUNDS
§ 92.30 PLAN REVIEW.
   All public campgrounds that are hereafter constructed, altered, or repaired
shall conform to the applicable requirements of the State Department of Health
and the County Health Department. Properly-prepared plans and specifications
shall be submitted to, and approved by, the County Health Department, in
writing, before starting any construction work. Any new or remodeled temporary
campground must submit an application on forms provided by the County Health
Department at least 90 days prior to scheduling the work, and at least 45 days
prior to the first pre-opening compliance inspection.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 92.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPGROUND. An area or tract of land where campsites are leased or rented,
and where provisions are made for ten or more tents, recreational vehicles,
park models, or vacation mobile homes. A CAMPGROUND is established, operated,
and maintained for recreational, health, education, sectarian, business, or
tourist activities away from established residences. The term, as used in this
subchapter, does not include primitive campgrounds, youth camps, or tracts of
land divided into individually deeded lots.
   CAMPSITE. An individual camping space set aside in a campground for a tent,
recreational vehicle, or vacation mobile home.
   DEPARTMENT. An authorized representative of the County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the county, or the authorized
representative thereof, and shall have the same meaning as LOCAL HEALTH OFFICER
in I.C. 16-18-2-212 and I.C. 16-20.
   NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI). Written information provided to the County Health
Department prior to operation of a temporary campground.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, company, corporation, trustee,
association, municipality, county, authority, estate, or public or private
entity owning, conducting, controlling, managing, or operating a campground.
   PRIMITIVE CAMPGROUND. An area or tract of land without water supply systems,
electricity, or toilets, and having no vehicular access.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Water supplied by a utility, municipality, conservancy
district, regional water district, rural water corporation, or not-for-profit
water corporation.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A travel trailer, park model, collapsible trailer,
truck-mounted camper, or motor home.
   TEMPORARY CAMPGROUND. A campground operated not more than ten consecutive
days per event and not more than 30 days a calendar year.
   YOUTH CAMP. Any area or tract of land established, operated, or maintained
to provide more than 72 continuous hours of outdoor group living experiences
away from established residences for educational, recreational, sectarian, or
health purposes to ten or more children who are under 18 years of age and not
accompanied by a parent or guardian. YOUTH CAMPS are under the jurisdiction of
the State Department of Health.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 92.32 MINIMUM SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   A temporary campground may not operate for more than ten
consecutive days.
      (2)   A temporary campground may not operate for more than 30 days in one
calendar year. Any campground operating for more than 30 days in one calendar
year is subject to regulation and inspection by the State Department of Health
under 410 I.A.C. 6-7.1.
      (3)   All campsites shall be on a level, or gently sloping land.
      (4)   All campsites shall be located at least 65 feet from the centerline
of all state and county roads.
      (5)   An adequate area of not less than 200 square feet shall be provided
for each campsite.
      (6)   No more than 250 campsites are permitted in a temporary campground.
   (B)   Notice of intent requirements. Any person subject to the requirements
of this subchapter shall:
      (1)   Submit a NOI letter that complies with this subchapter on a form
provided by the County Health Officer;
      (2)   The property owner, or other person responsible for the operation
of the temporary campground, must submit a NOI letter to the Health Officer at
least 18 days prior to operating a temporary campground in the county;
      (3)   Unless otherwise specified under an applicable general permit rule,
the NOI letter shall be sent to the following address: Hendricks County Health
Department, 355 South Washington Street, #210 Danville, IN 46122.
      (4)   The NOI letter shall include the following:
         (a)   Name, mailing address, and location of the campground for which
the notification is submitted;
         (b)   The person’s name, address, telephone number, e-mail address (if
available), ownership status, and status as federal, state, private, public, or
other entity;
         (c)   Dates of proposed operation of the temporary campground event;
         (d)   A description and drawing of how the campground complies with
the applicability requirements of this subchapter, and a site plan showing the
proposed layout of the campsites including the location of the sanitary
facilities and the water supply. The site plan shall include a measured map of
buildings, campsites, water supplies, dump station(s), utility connections, and
common areas;
         (e)   When wells not otherwise regulated are used as the source of
water, a current satisfactory bacteriological water result must be presented to
the County Health Department;
         (f)   A written contract with a licensed solid waste disposal provider
from pick up to disposal;
         (g)   A written contract with a licensed waste hauler if holding tanks
or privies are utilized;
         (h)   Any additional information required by the County Health
Officer; and
         (i)   The NOI letter must be signed by the owner, or the responsible
person in charge.
   (C)   Water supply.
      (1)   Campgrounds shall be provided with an adequate and convenient
supply of potable water that meets 327 I.A.C. 8.
      (2)   Wells shall be constructed, installed, and located in accordance
327 I.A.C. 8 and 312 I.A.C. 13.
      (3)   Campgrounds shall exclusively use a public water supply if public
water is available within a reasonable distance.
      (4)   If a public water supply is not available, a campground shall have
water supplied from a well that complies with the requirements of 327 I.A.C. 8.
      (5)   The campground water supply shall have a capacity to meet total
daily water demands. If a well or pump cannot meet peak or daily water demand,
campgrounds shall be provided with sufficient usable storage capacity to meet
the demand.
      (6)   Each campground shall provide one or more accessible water stations
of an approved design.
      (7)   Water stations and sanitary dumping stations shall be a minimum of
50 feet apart.
      (8)   A water station having an inside or outside threaded faucet shall
have a pressure vacuum breaker installed to protect against backflow.
      (9)   Stop-and-waste valves or yard hydrants that would allow aspiration
or backflow of contaminated water into the potable water system shall not be
used.
      (10)   All water sample results must be submitted to the County Health
Department.
      (11)   There shall be no direct physical connection between the
campground potable water supply system and any non-potable water supply system.
   (D)   Sewage disposal.
      (1)   All sewage generated by a campground, including gray water, shall
be disposed of via a connection to a public sewer, if available, within a
reasonable distance from the campground. If a public sewer is not available
within a reasonable distance, sewage disposal must comply with 410 I.A.C. 6-12,
410 I.AC. 6-10.1, Bulletin S.E. 11, Bulletin S.E. 13, or applicable rules of
the County Health Department and the State Department of Environmental
Management, and the State Department of Health.
      (2)   If the individual sewer connections are provided for recreational
vehicles, these connections shall meet the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   Each individual sewer riser shall be at least four inches in
diameter;
         (b)   Each individual sewer connection shall be tightly capped when a
recreational vehicle is not connected; and
         (c)   The rim of the riser pipe shall extend four inches above the
ground, and surface drainage shall be diverted away from the riser.
      (3)   Only wastewater management businesses licensed pursuant to I.C. 13-
18-12 shall clean campground privies and portable toilets of waste. Privies
must be pumped when the accumulated waste is within 18 inches of the privy
floor.
   (E)   Sanitary dumping station.
      (1)   All campgrounds where recreational vehicles are allowed, except
those having only campsites with individual water and sewer connections, shall
have at least one sanitary dumping station, or the campground owner shall make
available an alternative off-site dumping station approved by the County Health
Department, and the details of which are provided in the NOI.
      (2)   If provided, each sanitary dumping station must be equipped with
the following:
         (a)   A four inch sewer riser pipe with a self-closing hinged cover,
or other tight-fitting closure;
         (b)   A concrete apron at least three feet in diameter and sloped to
drain the area surrounding the inlet of the riser pipe;
         (c)   A water outlet for sanitary maintenance of the station;
         (d)   A sign located at the water outlet which states that the water
is not for drinking, but for flushing and cleaning holding tanks and the dump
station area; and
         (e)   A vacuum breaker properly installed on the water supply.
      (3)   Sanitary dumping stations utilizing holding tanks shall be capable
of receiving a sewage flow of at least 60 gallons per day for each dependent
campsite served.
   (F)   Campground sanitary facilities.
      (1)   A campground with campsites without individual sewer connections
shall have flush toilets, sanitary vault privies, or portable toilets, in the
following ratios:
 
Number of Dependent Campsites to Toilet Facilities Men’s UrinalsWomen Men
1-15                                               1              1     0
16-30                                              1              2     1
31-45                                              2              3     1
46-60                                              2              4     2
61-100                                             3              5     2
Notes to Table
*   Toilets may be substituted for the required number of urinals on a one-
for-one basis.
Sanitary vault privy, or portable toilet, for each sex in the ratio of one per
30 dependent campsites, and one urinal for each 100 additional campsites.
 
      (2)   The entrance to a sanitary facility shall have a sign to designate
which sex may use the facility. Solid walls extending from floor to ceiling
shall separate facilities for each sex located in the same building.
      (3)   For all common use rooms that contain sanitary or laundry
facilities, excluding sanitary vault privies and portable toilets, the
following minimum requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Floors, walls, and partitions around showers, lavatories, and
other plumbing fixtures shall be smooth, non-absorbent, and easily cleanable;
         (b)   Bathing and hand washing facilities shall have hot and cold
water under pressure. Bathing facilities shall have an approved, properly-
operating automatic temperature control valve. The valve must control the water
temperature at the point of use so it will not exceed 120F;
         (c)   Exterior openings shall be screened utilizing screening of not
less than 16 mesh;
         (d)   Entrances to toilet and bathing facilities shall have self-
closing doors;
         (e)   Toilet and bathing facilities shall be configured to prevent
viewing of the interior through the entrance door; and
         (f)   Light fixtures shall have guards or shields to prevent
shattering.
      (4)   Campground plumbing fixtures shall comply with 675 I.A.C. 16.
      (5)   Privies shall be constructed and maintained in compliance with
Bulletin S.E. 11.
      (6)   Campground sanitary facilities shall be:
         (a)   Maintained in a clean condition and in good repair;
         (b)   Properly lighted; and
         (c)   Ventilated.
   (G)   Refuse collection and disposal.
      (1)   The campground owner and/or operator shall be responsible for
satisfactory storage, collection, and disposal of all solid waste, garbage, and
refuse.
      (2)   Refuse, including garbage, shall be collected, stored, and disposed
of properly so the campground is clean and litter free. Refuse shall not
accumulate in a manner that could:
         (a)   Result in rodent harborage or promote insect breeding; or
         (b)   Cause a fire, safety, or health hazard.
      (3)   Each dumpster in a campground shall be covered with a tight-fitting
lid.
      (4)   Garbage and refuse collection and disposal shall occur at least
once a week or more often when necessary.
      (5)   Community dumpsters shall be at least 25 feet from any campsite.
   (H)   Emergency equipment and services.
      (1)   Telephone service shall be made available to all campers, and
access shall be provided at all times to such service for emergency use.
      (2)   A register containing the name and home address of the campsite
occupant, and the dates of arrival and departure, must be maintained and
available for inspection by the Department or the local Health Officer.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 92.33 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Department or the local Health Officer may enter public or private
property at reasonable times and, upon presentation of credentials, to do any
of the following:
   (A)   Inspect facilities, equipment, or records;
   (B)   Investigate allegations, conduct tests, or collect samples; and/or
   (C)   Obtain information necessary to the issuance of a permit pursuant to
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 92.34 INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   An inspection fee of the amount specified in §
37.28 shall be paid to the County Health Department if an inspection of a
temporary campground results in verification of a violation of this subchapter,
or of applicable state law.
   (B)   Payment of such fee is due within 30 days of the invoice by the County
Health Department.
   (C)   Any campground where outstanding, or unpaid, fees or penalties are due
is in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 4-26-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.35 COMPLIANCE; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A temporary campground in violation of this subchapter may not operate
in the county.
   (B)   Violators of this subchapter shall be served a written initial notice
of violation, whether in person or by any other manner reasonably decided to
result in actual notice, including certified mail.
   (C)   Such order shall state the violation, order the abatement of the
violation, and provide a reasonable time for abatement.
   (D)   If the violation is not satisfactorily abated within the specified
time, a notice regarding operation without a permit shall be served in the same
manner as specified for initial notices, and the matter shall be referred to
the attorney for the County Health Department, or the County Prosecutor for
appropriate legal action as specified in §
92.36.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 4-26-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.36 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the foregoing, civil penalties, which may include
injunctive relief, may be imposed under state law on any person who violates
any provision of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Department may commence an action under I.C. 16-20-1-25, I.C. 16-
20-1-26, and I.C. 4-21.5-3-6, or I.C. 4-21.5-3-8 against a campground operator
who:
      (1)   Fails to comply with this subchapter; or
      (2)   Interferes with, or obstructs, the Department, or its designated
agent, in the performance of duties pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, or persons, who shall continue to violate §§
92.30 through
92.36 beyond the time limit provided in the order shall be cited for said
violation in a court having jurisdiction. Upon conviction by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the violator, or violators, shall be punished by a fine
of no more than $2,500, plus court costs imposed. Each individual day that a
violation is in existence may be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 4-26-2011)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Unlawful practices
   
93.03   Discrimination
   
93.04   Interference, coercion, intimidation; prevention
   
93.05   Exemptions
   
93.06   Enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Civil Rights Commission, or to a local agency designated by
an ordinance adopted under I.C. 22-9.5-4-1.
   COMPLAINANT. Under I.C. 22-9.5-2-4, a person, including the Civil Rights
Commission, who files a complaint under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISABLED.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one,
or more, of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
      (2)   The term DISABLED shall not include the current illegal use of, or
addiction to, a controlled substance, as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-9-
5-6), nor does the term DISABLED include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite.
(I.C. 22-9-5-6)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.03 and
93.04 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with a parent, or another person having legal custody
of such individual, or the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of FAMILIAL
STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant, or is in the process of
securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases
under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let, or to otherwise grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 93.02 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
93.05, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
93.03(A) shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
93.03(A) shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold, or rented, by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time, provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale, or who
was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the exemption
shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The private
individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his
or her behalf title to, or any right to, all or a portion of the proceeds from
the sale, or rental, of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time. The sale, or rental, of any such single-family houses shall be excepted
from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales, or rental, of
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee, or
agent, of any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.03(A)(3), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied, or
intended to be occupied, by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains, and occupies, one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale, or rental, of any
dwelling, or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities, or services, in two or more transactions
involving the sale, or rental, of any dwelling, or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed, or intended,
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 8-8-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   In the sale, or rental, of housing. As made applicable by §
93.02, and except as exempted by §§
93.03(B) and
93.05, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell, or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer,
or to refuse to negotiate for the sale, or rental, of, or otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion,
sex, familial status, or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale, or
rental, of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial
status, or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference,
limitation, or discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, or national origin that any dwelling is not available for
inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce, or attempt to induce, any person to sell, or
rent, any dwelling by representations regarding the entry, or perspective
entry, into the neighborhood of a person, or persons, of a particular race,
color, religion, sex, disability, or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale, or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable, or deny, a dwelling to any buyer, or renter, because of a
disability of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale, or rental, of a dwelling, or in the provision of services
or facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For the purposes of this division (A), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied, or to be occupied, by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such person equal opportunity to use, and enjoy, a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwelling in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use, and common use, portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to, and usable by, disabled persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into, and within, all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into, and through, the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.    Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (9)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans With
Disabilities Action of 1990, and of the American National Standard for
Buildings and Facilities, providing accessibility and usability for physically
disabled people (commonly cited a “ANSI A117.1") suffices to satisfy the
requirements of division (A)(8)(c)3. above.
      (10)   Nothing in this division (A) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
   (B)   In residential real estate-related transactions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or other entity, whose
business includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, disability, familial status, or national origin.
      (2)   As used in this division (B), the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-
RELATED TRANSACTION means any of the following:
         (a)   The making, or purchasing, of loans, or providing other
financial assistance:
            1.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
            2.   Secured by residential real estate.
         (b)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real
property.
      (3)   Nothing in this subchapter prohibits a person engaged in the
business of furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration
factors other than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, familial
status, or disability.
   (C)   In the provision of brokerage services. It shall be unlawful to deny
any person access to, or membership or participation in, any multiple-listing
service, real estate brokers’ organization, or other service organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to
discriminate against him or her in the terms or conditions of such access,
membership, or participation, on account of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 8-8-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, INTIMIDATION; PREVENTION.
   (A)   Interference, coercion, or intimidation. It shall be unlawful to
coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any person in the exercise, or
enjoyment of, or on account of, his or her having exercised or enjoyed, or on
account of, his or her having aided, or encouraged, any other person in the
exercise or enjoyment of any right granted, or protected, by §§
93.02 and
93.04.
   (B)   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases. Whoever, whether or
not acting under color of law, by force, or threat of force, willfully injures,
intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to injure, intimidate, or
interfere with:
      (1)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin, and because he or she is, or
has been, selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating, for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for, or participating in, any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
      (2)   Any person because he or she is, or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person, or any other person or any class of persons from:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimi-nation, on account of race,
color, religion, familial status, sex, disability, or national origin, in any
of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described herein;
         (b)   Affording another person, or class of persons, opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 8-8-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any non-profit institution or organization
operated, supervised, or controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious
organization, association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or
occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such
persons, unless membership in such religion is restricted on account of race,
color, or national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a
private club not in fact open to the public which, as an incident to its
primary purpose, or purposes, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodgings to its members, or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this division (C), HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, or the State Civil
Rights Commission, determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended, and operated, for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 93.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter, and referral of complaints hereunder, to the Civil Rights Commission,
as set forth in division (B) below, shall be vested in the Chief Executive
Officer of the county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the county, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission (“Commission”) for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to the county, and shall refer all
said complaints to the Commission, as provided for under division (A) above, to
said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution, and appropriate
relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
its departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter,
and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Executive Officer of the county, or the Chief Executive
Officer’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 1994-4, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any citizen because he or she is, or has been, or in order to discourage
such citizen, or any other citizen, from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination, on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, disability, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in §
93.04(B)(1), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate, shall be fined not more than
$1,000, or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily injury
results, shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than
ten years, or both; and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for
any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 8-8-1994)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Conditions defined as nuisances
   
94.02   Noise exemptions
   
94.03   Vegetation control
   
94.04   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 CONDITIONS DEFINED AS NUISANCES.
   (A)   Nuisances in general.
      (1)   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances and, in case any thereof, may exist in unincorporated areas of
the county be treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in this
chapter or in accordance with any other provisions of law.
      (2)   Whenever the word NUISANCE is used in this chapter, it refers to a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Certain conditions. The following conditions within this chapter are
as declared to be nuisances: any device or otherwise, any unreasonably loud,
disturbing, or unnecessary noise; or any noise of a character, intensity, or
duration as to be detrimental to the life, health, safety, peace, comfort,
repose, or general welfare of any individual.
   (C)   Other provision. This section is only effective from 10:00 p.m. until
6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 10-26-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 NOISE EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from the classification of nuisance:
   (A)   Any noise commonly associated with normal or customary farm or
farming-related activities;
   (B)   Fireworks or related activities permitted under applicable state code;
   (C)   Authorized special events permitted by any county agency;
   (D)   Normal school related activities;
   (E)   Noise related to any normal or customary construction activities;
   (F)   Sporting events related to school activities; and
   (G)   Normal and customary residential uses such as lawn care.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 94.03 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   The owners of all trees, shrubs, vines, and all plant life growing in, on,
or along any street, alley, sidewalk, or highway of the county shall keep them
trimmed and pruned in such a manner that the limbs or branches thereof which
may extend over, on, along, or across any sidewalk and where the limbs and
branches extend over, into, or across the streets, alleys, and highways of the
county shall be trimmed and pruned so that the limbs and branches shall not be
less than 14 feet above the grade of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or
highways of the county.
(Ord. 2020-17, passed 4-14-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff to enforce this chapter
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The penalty for the first violation of §
94.01 is up to a $100 fine, plus court costs.
      (2)   The penalty for the second violation is up to a $250 fine, plus
court costs.
      (3)   The penalty for the third violation and beyond is up to a $500
fine, plus court costs.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates §
94.03 may be fined an amount not to exceed $100. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2020-17, passed 4-14-2020; Ord. 2021-60, passed 10-26-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
111.   DIRECT SELLERS
      
112.   CANVASSERS
      
113.   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
114.   LODGING ESTABLISHMENTS
      
115.   TATTOO, PIERCING, BODY MODIFICATION ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Conformance
   
110.04   Franchise
   
110.05   Minimum number of channels
   
110.06   Signal quality
   
110.07   Free services
   
110.08   Discrimination
   
110.09   Maintenance
   
110.10   Hearings
   
110.11   Assignments
   
110.12   Cable Television Board
   
110.13   Towns and cities
   
110.14   Pre-existing franchises
   
110.15   Expiration, termination of franchise
   
110.16   Exemptions
   
110.17   Rate increases
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide good cable television pictures and
service to the residents of the county by the establishment of minimum
standards for all persons and firms providing such services in the county.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE COMPANY. Any person or firm who transmits television signals, by any
means, to residents of the county.
   COUNTY. The county of Hendricks, Indiana.
   COMMISSION. All the Commissioners of the County Board of Commissioners.
   COMMISSIONER. Any one Commissioners of the County Board of Commissioners.
   HEARING OFFICER. Any person who is appointed by the Board of Commissioners
to conduct an administrative hearing under this chapter.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person, firm, or resident in the county who receives
television signals from a cable company.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.03 CONFORMANCE.
   All television cable franchises, licenses, and ordinances granted by the
Board of Commissioners prior to the effective date of this chapter are hereby
modified to conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.04 FRANCHISE.
   All cable companies operating in the county shall be required to have a
television cable franchise executed by the County Board of Commissioners. Such
franchise shall have a definite termination date, and shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter. The Board may impose any additional terms and
conditions in the franchise deemed by the Board of Commissioners to be in the
best interest of the residents of the county.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.05 MINIMUM NUMBER OF CHANNELS.
   All cable companies operating in the county shall transmit at least 35
television channels to subscribers. Of those 35 channels, at least two channels
shall provide regular broadcasts of news and weather, and at least one of the
35 channels shall provide pay per view broadcasts, and at least one of the 35
channels shall be dedicated for community messages that the cable company shall
charge a reasonable fee for, or which the cable company shall provide free of
charge.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.06 SIGNAL QUALITY.
   (A)   The cable company shall transmit, in color or in black and white, as
broadcast by the broadcaster, television pictures, undistorted from ghost
images, with good sound.
   (B)   The signal must be transmitted with adequate strength to produce good
pictures with good sound at all outlets without causing cross modulation in the
cables, or interference with other electrical or electric systems.
   (C)   The cable companies shall be prepared to demonstrate to a subscriber
that a signal of adequate strength and quality to provide a good picture and
good sound is being delivered to that subscriber’s residence.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.07 FREE SERVICES.
   All cable companies shall offer free basic cable service to all schools when
the cable company’s cable lines pass said facilities, or when cable services
are offered to properties adjoining said facilities.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.08 DISCRIMINATION.
   All cable companies shall offer its services at the same price to all
residents of the county, except that the cable companies may modify charges for
installation of its system to individual residents. Nothing herein contained
shall prohibit a cable company from offering a “special” service program to all
members of a specific neighborhood or section of the county in the quest of
increasing the cable company’s subscriber base in that neighborhood or section
of the county.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.09 MAINTENANCE.
   The cable companies operating in the county shall maintain, at its own
expense, adequate service and repair facilities in such a manner that all
subscriber service calls are responded to within 72 hours of the receipt of
notice of an outage, and within 120 hours of the receipt of a service call for
service other than an outage. At the request of the subscriber who has suffered
an outage, the cable company shall credit the account of such subscriber for a
prorated daily sum representing the number of days the subscriber’s service was
out as compared to the total monthly basic service rate paid by the subscriber.
Exempted from the provisions of this section are outages caused by acts of God
or acts of any third persons over whom the cable company has no control.
Subscribers shall have the right to execute a written waiver of the provisions
of this section. Any such waiver shall be for any one incident, and the cable
company shall not require subscribers to execute a standing or continuous
waiver.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.10 HEARINGS.
   (A)   A subscriber who feels a cable company has violated the provisions of
this chapter shall have the right to submit a formal letter of complaint
therefor with the County Board of Commissioners. The Board shall give written
notice to the cable company of such complaint, together with a copy of the
letter of complaint. The cable company shall have 30 days from the date of the
written notice from the County Board of Commissioners to resolve the complaint
and give written evidence to the Board that such complaint has been resolved.
The cable company shall have the right to dispute the claim of complaint by
filing a written notice therefor with the Board, and requesting a formal
hearing to determine whether or not a violation of this chapter has occurred.
The cable company may request that either a Board member conduct the hearing,
or that a hearing officer conduct the hearing. In the event the cable company
requests a hearing officer, then the cable company shall submit the sum of $300
per day, plus the sum of $300 for a report, for each day estimated by the cable
company to present its evidence with its request. Said sums may be modified
from time to time by the County Board of Commissioners so that the expense of
engaging a hearing officer, or of conducting the hearing, shall be borne by the
cable company. The hearing shall follow the rules of evidence except that
hearsay evidence shall be admissible, except that no recommendation or findings
of fact shall be based solely upon hearsay evidence.
   (B)   The hearing shall be conducted within 30 days of the request of
hearing filed by the cable company, unless the County Board of Commissioners
shall grant a continuance for additional time as may be requested by the cable
company. The report and recommendation of the hearing by a hearing officer or
by a member of the Board shall be in writing, and shall be delivered to the
Board who shall then determine what, if any, violation has occurred, and the
appropriate penalty, if any, which should be levied.
   (C)   In the event of a claim of a violation of this chapter not filed by a
subscriber, all the provisions of this section shall apply, except that a
provision requiring a written notice from a subscriber. In the event the cable
company fails to file evidence of a resolution of a complaint within the period
provided for herein, or fails to request hearing as set forth herein, the Board
shall proceed to accept the complaint as though it was verified by a hearing,
and shall proceed accordingly.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.11 ASSIGNMENTS.
   The television franchises granted by the County Board of Commissioners have
not been granted for the purposes of speculation or resale, but rather to
provide the residents of the county with good television cable service. The
television cable franchises granted by the county are not, therefore,
transferable without the specific, written consent of the Board of
Commissioners. The Board shall deny any consent to assignment unless the
assignee, or purchaser of the franchise, can clearly demonstrate to the Board
that the assignee, or purchaser, has a financial capability to operate the
system being acquired, and a sufficient service capability to service the
system being acquired. Any such approval of assignment by the Board shall be in
writing, prepared by the cable company in a form approved by the County
Council.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.12 CABLE TELEVISION BOARD.
   The County Board of Commissioners shall have the right to create a
Television Cable Board consisting of at least two residents of the county who
are television cable subscribers, and two persons who are employed by
television cable companies who may, or may not, be operating in the county, and
one Board member. In the event of the creation of such a Television Cable
Board, said group shall make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners
regarding cable companies, and members of said Television Cable Board, except
for the Board of Commissioners member, may be utilized as hearing officers
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.13 TOWNS AND CITIES.
   Any incorporated towns and cities within the county shall have the election
to submit its town or city to the jurisdiction of this chapter. Unless a
written notice is received from said town or city to be subject to the
jurisdiction of this chapter, then all incorporated towns and cities within the
county shall be exempted from this chapter. In the event of an election from a
town or city within the county to be within the jurisdiction of this chapter,
any revenue received by the town or city from cable companies shall continue to
be paid to said town or city by said cable company.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.14 PRE-EXISTING FRANCHISES.
   All cable companies operating within the county under franchise, license, or
ordinance prior to the effective date of this chapter shall have a period of 12
months to conform to the provisions of this chapter. Failure of any such cable
company to so conform, subject to the right of the Board of Commissioners to
grant a time extension, shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.15 EXPIRATION, TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   Upon expiration or termination of a cable television franchise, and the
failure of the Board of Commissioners to renew said franchise, all lines and
equipment of the former franchisee shall either be removed by the franchisee
on, or before, the termination date of the franchise, or such lines and
equipment shall become the property of the county. Equipment, as referred to
herein, shall be limited to equipment attached to said lines. The former
franchisee shall give written notice to the Board of Commissioners of its
intent concerning said lines no later than 60 days prior to the expiration date
of the franchise, or 60 days prior to the effective termination date of the
franchise. The Board shall not have the right to refuse to renew a franchise
without good cause.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.16 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exempted from the provisions of this chapter are the signals from any
television broadcaster located in the state broadcasting one television signal
under a license issued therefor by the Federal Communications Commission of the
United States of America.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.17 RATE INCREASES.
   Television cable companies operating in the county shall be prohibited from
increasing its rate for basic cable service more than once in any calendar year
without the consent of the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   A cable company who is determined to have violated the provisions of this
chapter shall be penalized by a fine, loss of franchise, or both fine and loss
of franchise. A fine not to exceed $100 per day for each day of outage, or a
fine not to exceed the total sum of $500 in the event of a violation other than
an outage, shall be the maximum penalty for the first violation of a cable
company within a 12-month period. The finding of a second violation by the same
cable company violating the same provision of this chapter within the same 12-
month period shall be a maximum of $200 per day for each day of outage, or a
fine not to exceed $1,000 in the event of a violation other than an outage. The
finding of a third violation of the same provision of this chapter within a 12-
month period shall bear the same maximum penalties as the second violation,
except that the cable company committing such third violation within said
period may further include the penalty of a probationary franchise status for
the balance of the same 12-month period. A subsequent violation of the same
provision of this chapter within the same 12-month period shall give the Board
of Commissioners the right to revoke the franchise of the cable company
effective 120 days from the date of any such order.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-31-1990)
CHAPTER 111: DIRECT SELLERS
Section
   
111.01   Registration required
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Exemptions
   
111.04   Registration
   
111.05   Additional information
   
111.06   License
   
111.07   Identification
   
111.08   Investigation
   
111.09   Appeal
   
111.10   Regulations
   
111.11   Disclosure requirements
   
111.12   Records
   
111.13   Revocation of registration
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to engage in direct sales within
the county without being registered for that purpose as provided herein.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. Any benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or
eleemosynary person, partnership, association, or corporation, or one
purporting to be such.
   DIRECT SELLER. Any individual who, for himself or herself, or for a
partnership, association, or corporation, sells goods or takes sales orders for
the later delivery of goods, at any location other than the permanent business
place or residence of said individual, partnership, association, or
corporation, and shall include, but not be limited to, peddlers, solicitors,
and transient merchants. The sale of goods includes donations required by the
DIRECT SELLER for the retention of goods by a donor or prospective customer.
   GOODS. Personal property of any kind, and shall include goods provided
incidental to services offered or sold.
   PERMANENT MERCHANT. A direct seller who, for at least one year prior to the
consideration of the application of this chapter to said merchants, has
continuously operated an established place of business in this county, or has
continuously resided in this county and now does business from his or her
residence.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 111.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from all provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Any person delivering newspapers, fuel, dairy products, or bakery
goods to regular customers on established routes;
   (B)   Any person selling goods at wholesale to dealers in such goods;
   (C)   Any personal selling agricultural products which such person has
grown, or produced, in the county, and is being sold by a resident of the
county;
   (D)   Any permanent merchant, or employee thereof, who takes orders away
from the established place of business for goods regularly offered for sale by
such merchant within the county, and who delivers such goods in his or her
regular course of business;
   (E)   Any person who has an established place of business where the goods
being sold are offered for sale on a regular basis, and in which the buyer has
initiated contact with, and specifically requested a home visit by, said
person;
   (F)   Any person who has had, or one who represents a company which has had,
a prior business transaction, such as a prior sale or credit arrangement, with
the prospective customer;
   (G)   Any person holding a sale required by statute, or by order of any
court, and any person conducting a bona fide auction sale pursuant to law; and
   (H)   Any employee, officer, or agent of a federally recognized charitable
organization.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 111.04 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Applicants for registration must complete and return to the Sheriff’s
Department, at least three days before such applicant shall be authorized to do
business, a registration form furnished by the Sheriff’s Department which shall
require the following information:
      (1)   Name, permanent address, and telephone number and temporary
address, if any;
      (2)   Age, height, weight, and color of hair and eyes;
      (3)   Name, address, and telephone number of the person, firm,
association, or corporation that the direct seller represents or is employed
by, or whose merchandise is being sold;
      (4)   Temporary address and telephone number from which business will be
conducted, if any;
      (5)   Nature of the business to be conducted and a brief description of
the goods offered, and any services offered;
      (6)   Proposed method of delivery of goods, if applicable;
      (7)   Make, model, and license number of any vehicle to be used by the
applicant in the conduct of his or her business;
      (8)   The last three previous cities, villages, and/or towns where the
applicant conducted similar business;
      (9)   Place where the applicant can be contacted for at least seven days
after leaving the county; and
      (10)   Statement as to whether the applicant has been convicted of any
crime or ordinance violation related to the applicant’s transient merchant
business within the last five years, the nature of the offense, and the place
of conviction.
   (B)   Such application shall be accompanied by a bond in the sum of $250
executed by a surety company, or by two responsible freeholders residing within
the county, or a cash bond of equal amount, said bond conditioned that all
goods, wares, merchandise, or articles sold by such applicant will be as
represented by him or her, and he or she will refund the purchase price of any
goods, wares, merchandise, or articles sold by him or her which are not as
represented.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the action of a licensed direct seller
hereunder shall have a right of action on the bond, or other surety for the
recovery of money or damages, or both. In the event a cash bond is deposited,
the same shall be retained by the County Sheriff’s Office for 60 days after the
expiration of any license issued upon said bond or surety.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 111.05 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   Each applicant shall present to the Sheriff’s Department for examination:
   (A)   A driver’s license, or some other proof of identity as may be
reasonably required;
   (B)   A state certificate of examination and approval from the sealer of
weights and measures where the applicant’s business requires use of weighing
and measuring devices approved by state authorities; and
   (C)   A state Health Officer’s certificate where the applicant’s business
involves the handling of food or clothing, and is required to be certified
under state law, such certificate to state that the applicant is apparently
free from any contagious or infectious disease, dated not more than 90 days
prior to the date the application for license is made.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 111.06 LICENSE.
   (A)   At the time the registration and surety are returned and the bond
approved by the County Sheriff, a license shall be issued by the County Sheriff
to such applicant to begin business not less than three days after the date of
filing such application and bond, upon the payment of the following fees:
 
Duration  Fees
One day   $20
One week  $50
One month $100
 
   (B)   Upon payment of said fee, the County Sheriff shall register the
applicant as a direct seller, and date the entry and issue the license. If any
such licensee desires to continue in business after the expiration of such
license, a new license must be secured in the same manner, and upon the same
terms as the original license, subject to subsequent refusal as provided in §
111.08.
   (C)   Said funds shall be deposited in a fund so designated for the benefit
of the County Sheriff’s Department for reimbursement of expenses incurred.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 111.07 IDENTIFICATION.
   Each such person or entity to receive a permit shall have, on his or her
person, an identification card displaying his or her name, and the organization
he or she represents.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 111.08 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of each application, the County Sheriff’s Department may
make, and complete, an investigation of the statements made in such
registration.
   (B)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall refuse to register the applicant
if it is determined, pursuant to the investigation above, that:
      (1)   The application contains any material omission, or materially
inaccurate statement;
      (2)   Complaints of a material nature have been received and proven
against the applicant by authorities in the three previous cities, villages,
and towns in which the applicant conducted similar business;
      (3)   The applicant was convicted of a crime, statutory violation, or
chapter violation within the last five years, the nature of which is directly
related to the applicant’s fitness to engage in direct selling; or
      (4)   The applicant failed to comply with any applicable provision of §
111.04.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 111.09 APPEAL.
   Any person denied registration may appeal the denial through the appeal
procedure provided by ordinance or resolution to the County Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 111.10 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall govern the conduct of registrants hereunder:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller:
      (1)   To call at any dwelling, or other place, between the hours of 7:00
p.m. and 9:00 a.m., except by appointment;
      (2)   To call at any dwelling or other place where a sign is displayed
bearing the wording “No Peddlers”, “No Solicitors”, or words of similar
meaning;
      (3)   To call at the rear door of any place or dwelling; and/or
      (4)   To remain on the premises after being asked to leave by the owner,
occupant, or other person having authority over such premises.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for a direct seller to misrepresent, or
make false, deceptive, or misleading statements concerning the quality,
quantity, or character of any goods offered for sale, the purpose of his or her
visit, his or her identity, or the identity of the organization he or she
represents.
      (2)   A charitable organization direct seller shall specifically disclose
what portion of the sale price of goods being offered will actually be used for
the charitable purpose for which the organization is soliciting. Said portion
shall be expressed as a percentage of the sale price of the goods.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to impede the free use of
sidewalks and streets by pedestrians and vehicles. Where the sales are made
from vehicles, all traffic and parking regulations shall be observed.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to make any loud noises, or
use any sound amplifying devise, to attract customers if the noise produced is
capable of being plainly heard outside a 100-foot radius or more.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to allow rubbish or litter
to accumulate in, or around, the area in which he or she is conducting
business.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall govern the conduct of registrants:
   (A)   After the initial greeting, and before any other statement is made to
a prospective customer, a direct seller shall expressly disclose his or her
name, the name of the company or organization he or she is affiliated with, if
any, and the identity of goods or services he or she offers to sell;
   (B)   If any sales of goods is made by a direct seller, or any sales order
for the later delivery of goods is taken by the seller, the buyer shall have
the right to cancel said transaction if it involves the extension of credit or
is a cash transaction of more than $25; and
   (C)   If the direct seller takes a sales order for the later delivery of
goods, he or she shall, at the time the order is taken, provide the buyer with
a written statement containing the terms of the agreement, the amount paid in
advance, whether full, partial, or no advance payment is made, the name,
address, and telephone number of the seller, the delivery performance date, and
whether a guarantee or warranty is provided and, if so, the terms thereof.
(Ord. 2011-20, 8-23-2011)
§ 111.12 RECORDS.
   The County Sheriff’s Department shall keep a record of all chapter
violations pertaining to this chapter. The Sheriff shall report to the County
Board of Commissioners all convictions for violations of this chapter, and
shall note any such violation on the record of the registrant convicted.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 111.13 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   The registration of a direct seller may be revoked by the County Sheriff’s
Department for any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating this chapter shall be fined not
less than $5, nor more than $100 for each offense, and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during, or on, which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 8-23-2011)
CHAPTER 112: CANVASSERS
Section
   
112.01   Registration required
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Exceptions
   
112.04   Regulation
   
112.05   Fee
   
112.06   Valid registration
   
112.07   Violations
   
112.08   Revocation
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in canvassing within the
corporate limits of the county without being registered for that purpose as
herein provided.
(Ord. 1993-4, passed 3-30-1993) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. Any person, whether acting on his or her own, or on behalf of
another person, corporation, or other entity who engages in canvassing as
herein defined.
   CANVASSING. Any act of a person going from house to house, door to door, or
business to business for any purpose including, but not limited to, the
conducting of a survey, the dissemination of information, either orally or with
written materials, the distribution of any written materials, objects, or
products, and the solicitation of information.
(Ord. 1993-4, passed 3-30-1993)
§ 112.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following persons:
   (A)   Officers or employees of the county, a state county, the state or the
federal government, or any subdivision thereof, when on official business;
   (B)   Legitimate candidates for national, state, and local public office,
and their authorized individuals working for such candidates when such
candidates, or their authorized agents, are engaged in an election campaign for
public office; and
   (C)   Authorized individuals soliciting donations, contributions, or
memberships for recognized service, and fraternal organizations that have an
organized chapter or body located within the county or within the state.
(Ord. 1993-4, passed 3-30-1993)
§ 112.04 REGULATION.
   Before any person shall engage in an act of canvassing, he or she shall
register with the County Clerk, and shall give his or her complete
identification, his or her signature, the name of his or her employer, the
nature and purpose of his or her canvassing, the name, or names, of the
organization or entity for which he or she is soliciting, the make, model,
color, and license plate number of any vehicle being used during his or her
canvassing, the purpose of his or her canvassing, and the proposed method of
operation in the county.
(Ord. 1993-4, passed 3-30-1993)
§ 112.05 FEE.
   Each registrant shall pay to the County Clerk a registration fee of $10 to
cover the process cost of the registration. Authorized individuals soliciting
donations, contributions, or memberships to recognized charitable and religious
organizations shall be exempt from the registration fee.
(Ord. 1993-4, passed 3-30-1993)
§ 112.06 VALID REGISTRATION.
   Upon proper registration pursuant to this chapter and the payment of the fee
by the registrant, said registration shall be valid for said person for a
period of 30 days commencing on the date that the fee is paid for such
registration to the County Clerk.
(Ord. 1993-4, passed 3-30-1993)
§ 112.07 VIOLATIONS.
   The following regulations shall govern the conduct of registrants hereunder.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any canvasser to call at any dwelling,
business, or other place before 8:00 a.m. and after 30 minutes before sunset,
except by appointment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any canvasser to remain on any premises after
being asked to leave by the owner, occupant, or other person having authority
over such premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any canvasser to misrepresent or make false,
deceptive, or misleading statements while engaged in canvassing, the purpose of
his or her visit, his or her identity, or the identity of the organization he
or she represents.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any canvasser to impede the free use of
sidewalks and streets by pedestrians and vehicles.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any canvasser to allow any written materials,
or other rubbish or litter, to be dropped, thrown, or left on the sidewalks,
streets, yards, vehicles, parks, residences, or businesses within the corporate
limits of the county.
   (F)   In addition to the penalty provided for in §
112.99, any act of any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of
this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and all remedies applicable
to a nuisance, both public and private, including, but not limited to,
injunction and damages, are hereby preserved.
(Ord. 1993-4, passed 3-30-1993) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 REVOCATION.
   Any such registration pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the County
Sheriff because of any violation by the registrant of this chapter, or of any
other ordinance of the county, or of any state or federal law, and upon
revocation of the registration of any canvasser, any further act of canvassing
by such person shall result in a violation of this chapter and the application
of the appropriate penalties therefor.
(Ord. 1993-4, passed 3-30-1993)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $100 for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during, or on, which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1993-4, passed 3-30-1993)
CHAPTER 113: RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Approval of plans
   
113.04   Permits; fees
   
113.05   Minimum requirements
   
113.06   Unwholesome, adulterated, misbranded food
   
113.07   Inspections
   
113.08   Compliance, enforcement
   
113.09   Appeals
   
113.10   Temporary, farmers’ market vendor food stalls; inspection
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   A chapter pertaining to establishments requiring permits and permit fees for
operation of a retail food establishment, mobile food establishment, temporary
food establishment, farmer’s market vendor, or bed and breakfast establishment;
prohibiting the sale of adulterated, unwholesome, or misbranded food;
regulating the inspection of food and bed and breakfast establishments;
providing for enforcement of this chapter; providing for the fixing of
penalties for violations of said chapter; and providing for incorporation by
reference the following statutes and rules: “Retail Food Establishment
Sanitation Requirements”, 410 I.A.C. 7-24, or as amended; and “Bed and
Breakfast Establishment” 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, I.C. 16-42-1, I.C. 16-42-2, I.C.
16-42-5, I.C. 16-42-5.2, 410 I.A.C. 7-21, 410 I.A.C. 7-22, and 410 I.A.C. 7-23.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 2-23-2010)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. An operator-occupied residence that
provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee, has no more than 14
guest rooms, provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee, and provides
sleeping accommodations to a particular guest for no more than 30 consecutive
days.
   CATERING. The preparation of food in an approved retail food establishment,
and may include the transportation of such food for service and consumption at
some other site.
   COMMISSARY. A registered catering establishment, restaurant, or any retail
food establishment in which food, food containers, or food supplies are kept,
handled, prepared, packaged, or stored from which meals are catered, and mobile
retail food establishments, or pushcarts, are serviced.
   CONSECUTIVE INSPECTION. An inspection which occurs directly after another
inspection (for example, an inspection occurs April 2010, and the next
inspection occurs July 2010). The type of inspection, or period of time between
inspections, is not significant.
   CRITICAL VIOLATION. A violation that is more likely than other violations to
significantly contribute to food contamination, illness, or an environmental
health hazard. These may include items marked in the “C” column denoting
CRITICAL VIOLATIONS on the inspection report form.
   FARMERS’ MARKET VENDOR. A retail food establishment, excluding a mobile food
establishment, which operates with the approval of the market master at a
common facility where two or more farmers or growers gather on a regular re-
occurring basis to sell a variety of fruits, vegetables, and other farm
products to consumers.
   HABITUAL NON-COMPLIANCE. Two or more inspections for an establishment
meeting one of the following:
      (1)   One or more enforcement actions taken within the previous three
years;
      (2)   Three consecutive inspections documenting the same critical
violation(s);
      (3)   Four non-consecutive inspections documenting the same critical
violation(s);
      (4)   Five consecutive inspections documenting the same non-critical
violations(s); and/or
      (5)   Six non-consecutive inspections documenting the same non-critical
violations(s).
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Director of Public Health of the County Health
Department in the state, or the HEALTH OFFICER’S authorized representative.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction, or cessation, of operation to prevent injury or illness based on
the number of potential injuries or illnesses, and the nature, severity, and
duration of the anticipated injury or illness.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as a result of the inspection and provided to the person in
charge.
   MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A retail food establishment that is wheeled, on
skids, mounted on a vehicle, a marine vessel, or otherwise readily movable,
such as a pushcart or trailer that changes location too frequently to be a
candidate for permanent utility connections, as determined by the Health
Officer.
   NON-CONSECUTIVE INSPECTION. An inspection that does not occur directly after
another inspection (for example, inspections are conducted in October 2009,
April 2010, July 2010, where October 2009 and July 2010 are non-consecutive
inspections). The type of inspection, or period of time between inspections, is
not significant.
   OPERATOR. The person who has primary oversight responsibility for the
operation of the establishment through ownership or lease, or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation, or serving of food to the public.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person to operate a retail food establishment, mobile food establishment,
temporary food establishment, farmers’ market vendor, or bed and breakfast
establishment.
   PERSON. An association, a corporation, an individual, partnership, or other
legal entity, government, or governmental subdivision or agency.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. The individual present at a retail food establishment who
is responsible for the operation at the time of inspection.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. An operation that:
      (1)   Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or otherwise provides
food for human consumption, such as the following:
         (a)   A restaurant;
         (b)   A satellite or catered feeding location;
         (c)   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly to
a consumer, or to a conveyance used to transport people;
         (d)   A market;
         (e)   A grocery store;
         (f)   A convenience store;
         (g)   A conveyance used to transport people;
         (h)   An institution;
         (i)   A food bank;
         (j)   A commissary;
         (k)   A cottage industry;
         (l)   A health facility, as defined in I.C. 16-18-2; and
         (m)   An assisted living facility, as defined in state statute.
      (2)   Relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly, or
indirectly, through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or a delivery service that is provided by common
carriers.
         (a)   The term includes the following:
            1.   An element of the operation, such as a transportation vehicle
or a central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location, unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority; and
            2.   An operation that is conducted in a facility or location, as
described in divisions (2)(a)2.a. through (2)(a)2.d. below, where consumption
is on, or off, the premises, and regardless of whether there is a charge for
the food:
               a.    Mobile;
               b.    Stationary;
               c.    Temporary; or
               d.    Permanent.
         (b)   The term does not include the following:
            1.   An establishment that offers only pre-packaged foods that are
not potentially hazardous;
            2.   A produce stand that offers only whole, uncut fresh fruits and
vegetables;
            3.   A food processing plant operated under I.C. 16-42-5;
            4.   A bed and breakfast establishment, as defined and regulated
under I.C. 16-41-31 and 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5;
            5.   A private home that receives catered or home-delivered food;
            6.   A private home; and
            7.   Those exempted from the definition of food establishment by
I.C. 16-18-2.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A retail food establishment that operates for
a period of time no more than 14 consecutive calendar days, in conjunction with
a single event or celebration with the approval of the organizers of the event
or celebration.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 2-23-2010)
§ 113.03 APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   (A)   All retail food establishments, except for those listed under division
(B) below, that are hereafter constructed, or re-constructed, shall conform to
the applicable requirements of the State Department of Health, and the State
Department of Fire and Building Services. Properly prepared plans and
specifications shall be submitted to, and approved by, the County Health
Department, in writing, before starting any construction work. Any new or
remodeled establishment must submit a completed plan review application on
forms provided by the County Health Department at least 30 working days prior
to scheduling the pre-opening compliance inspection.
   (B)   Regulated establishments are exempt from the plan review requirements
of this chapter if:
      (1)   The entire operation of the establishment is receiving inspections
by an appropriate state or federal governmental agency;
      (2)   The establishment is a mobile food establishment;
      (3)   The establishment is a temporary food establishment;
      (4)   The establishment is a farmers’ market vendor; or
      (5)   The establishment is a bed and breakfast establishment.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 2-23-2010)
§ 113.04 PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a retail food
establishment, mobile food establishment, temporary food establishment,
farmers’ market vendor, or bed and breakfast establishment in the county who
does not possess a valid permit from the Health Officer, except when the entire
operation of the establishment is receiving inspections by an appropriate state
or federal governmental agency.
         (b)   Valid county food permits shall be posted in a conspicuous place
at the establishment at all times.
      (2)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of this
chapter will be entitled to receive, and retain, such a permit.
      (3)   Permit duration for specific establishments are as follows:
         (a)   Retail food establishments and bed and breakfast establishments
shall be for one year, beginning from the date of issuance, and shall be
applied for by the establishment annually;
         (b)   Mobile retail food establishments shall include expiration on
December 31 of the calendar year in which the permit is issued;
         (c)   Temporary food establishments shall be for the term of one
continuous event at one location. This permit is not to exceed 14 consecutive
days; and
         (d)   Farmers’ market vendors permits shall expire on December 31 of
the calendar year in which the permit is issued.
      (4)   Any permits issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name of
the establishment, the address of the establishment, duration of the permit,
and other pertinent information required by the Health Officer.
      (5)   Required permits shall be provided by the County Health Officer
subject to a completed application, payment of fees, and compliance with all
applicable state statutes, rules and regulations, and local chapter. The
applicant must be an owner and/or operator of the retail food establishment,
mobile food establishment, temporary food establishment, farmers’ market
vendor, or bed and breakfast establishment.
      (6)   A late renewal fee will apply if a permit for a retail food
establishment or bed and breakfast establishment is not renewed by the date of
expiration. Application for a mobile food establishment, temporary food
establishment, or farmers’ market vendor permit must be submitted to the Health
Department at least 48 hours prior to start of the event or operation, or late
application fees will apply.
      (7)   Public events where catered food is served or prepared shall occur
at a facility holding a valid county establishment permit. This permitted
establishment shall obtain a current copy of the caterer’s local Health
Department food permit. If the site or the caterer is not permitted, the
caterer must obtain a temporary food establishment permit for the event.
      (8)   Any person who desires to operate a temporary food establishment in
the county shall obtain from the Health Officer a permit for a temporary food
establishment. Such temporary permit shall be provided by the Health Officer if
a completed application for a permit, and appropriate fees, are presented, and
the temporary food establishment demonstrates compliance with all critical
requirements.
      (9)   A temporary permit will not be issued to a temporary food
establishment in operation in one location for more than 30 days in one
calendar year.
      (10)   A separate permit shall be required for each retail food
establishment, mobile establishment, temporary food establishment, farmers’
market vendor, or bed and breakfast establishment operated, or to be operated,
by any person. Any permit issued under this chapter is not transferable from
one person to another, from one establishment to another, from one mobile unit
to another, or from one type of operation to another.
      (11)   A non-renewable provisional permit is available for a person
taking over an existing permitted establishment. The following conditions
apply:
         (a)   The provisional permit shall be provided by the County Health
Officer if a completed application, and the appropriate fee, are received by
the County Health Department;
         (b)   The provisional permit will be valid for 90 days from the date
of issue. No extensions will be provided;
         (c)   An annual permit must be obtained before the expiration of the
provisional permit. The annual permit will not be issued until all outstanding
violations, if any, have been corrected, and an acceptable compliance
inspection by the County Health Department is recorded; and
         (d)   The annual permit shall have the anniversary date of the
original date of the provisional permit.
   (B)   Permit fees.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, all permitted
establishments must pay permit fees as specified in §
37.28. A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the County
Health Department. The fees paid under this chapter are not transferable or
refundable. A permit may not be issued to any establishment where outstanding,
or unpaid, fees or penalties are due.
      (2)   No permit fee shall be required for a food establishment operated
by a public school, as defined in I.C. 20-18-2, or for a food establishment
owned and operated by the County Government.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 2-23-2010) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. All retail food establishments, mobile food
establishments, temporary food establishments, farmers’ market vendor, and bed
and breakfast establishments shall comply with the minimum requirements
specified in the applicable state administrative codes 410 I.A.C. 7-24 or 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5. Copies of each are kept on file in the County Health Department
Office for public inspection.
   (B)   Water source. Each facility must have an adequate supply of potable
water at all times of operation. In addition, the following requirements must
be met.
      (1)   Those facilities regulated by the State Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM), and/or 327 I.A.C. 8 must be in substantial compliance with
applicable regulations.
      (2)   Facilities with a private water supply not subject to IDEM
regulations must submit satisfactory water samples results at least one time a
year to the County Health Department.
      (3)   The County Health Department must be notified of any interruption
in water service. If there is a possibility of water supply contamination, an
establishment must cease operation until water is restored, and until two
separate water samples, tested 24 hours apart, show satisfactory results. An
establishment must receive approval from the County Health Department before
resuming operations after an interruption of water service.
   (C)   Wastewater treatment. Each facility must have adequate wastewater
treatment and disposal at all times of operation as determined by the Health
Officer. In addition, sewage shall be disposed through an approved facility
that is:
      (1)   A public sewage treatment plant; or
      (2)   An individual sewage disposal system that is (according to law):
         (a)   Sized;
         (b)   Constructed;
         (c)   Maintained; and
         (d)   Operated.
   (D)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the County Health Department, the operator, in order to retain the permit,
shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein, and the conditions of any variances granted by the
State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist because of an
emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of electrical or water
service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic materials, onset of
apparent foodborne illness outbreak, gross insanitary occurrence or condition,
or other circumstance that may endanger public health;
      (3)   If a retail food establishment, mobile food establishment,
temporary food establishment, farmers’ market vendor, or bed and breakfast
establishment has discontinued operations for the reasons stated above, or
otherwise according to law, the operator must obtain approval from the County
Health Department before resuming operations;
      (4)   Allow representatives of the County Health Department access to all
parts of the retail food establishment, mobile food establishment, temporary
food establishment, farmers’ market vendor, or bed and breakfast establishment
at all reasonable times; to collect evidence and/or exhibits; and to routinely
inspect, investigate complaints, and copy any or all records relative to the
enforcement of this chapter;
      (5)   Comply with the directives of the County Health Department,
including time frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports,
notices, orders, warnings, and other directives issued by the County Health
Department in regard to the operator’s retail food establishment, mobile food
establishment, temporary food establishment, farmers’ market vendor, bed and
breakfast establishment, property, or facility, or in response to community
emergencies;
      (6)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department;
and
      (7)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and criminal
remedies authorized by law for failure to comply with this chapter, or a
directive of the County Health Department.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 2-23-2010)
§ 113.06 UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED, MISBRANDED FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, through a retail food
establishment, mobile food establishment, temporary food establishment,
farmers’ market vendor, or bed and breakfast establishment, any food which is
unwholesome, adulterated, or misbranded, as provided in the State Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, I.C. 16-42-1 through I.C. 16-42-2.
   (B)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the Health Officer as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from contamination,
adulteration, or misbranding. The Health Officer may, on written notice to the
owner or operator, impound and forbid the sale of any food which is
unwholesome, adulterated, or misbranded, or which he or she has probable cause
to believe is unfit for human consumption, unwholesome, adulterated, or
misbranded, provided that in the case of misbranding which can be corrected by
proper labeling, such food may be released to the operator for correct labeling
under the supervision of the Health Officer.
   (C)   The Health Officer may also cause to be removed, or destroyed, any
dairy product, meat, meat product, seafood, poultry, poultry product,
confectionery, bakery product, vegetable, fruit, or other perishable articles
which the Health Officer determines are unsound, or contains any filthy,
decomposed, or putrid substance, or that may be poisonous or deleterious to
health or otherwise unsafe.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 2-23-2010) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Schedule of inspection. The Health Officer may establish an inspection
schedule, the frequency of which is at the discretion of the Health Officer.
The schedule will be based on the public health risk associated with the
establishment’s menu, type of operation, including the methods and extent of
food storage, preparation and service, the number of people served, and past
performance.
   (B)   Procedure when violations are noted. If, during an inspection of any
establishment, the Health Officer discovers a violation of this chapter, he or
she shall issue a written order in the form of an inspection report listing
such violation to the operator, or, in the operator’s absence, to the person in
charge, and setting a date by which the violation shall be abated. A copy of
the inspection report shall be filed with the records of the County Health
Department.
   (C)   Public access to inspection records. After the inspection report is
completed, the establishment, under I.C. 16-20-8-5, has the opportunity to
review the reports and submit to the County Health Department a written
response. The public will have access to inspection reports either ten days
after the completion of the inspection, or after a written response to the
inspection report has been submitted to the department under I.C. 16-20-8-5,
whichever is earlier, except as provided in I.C. 16-20-8-8. The inspection
report and related public records may be inspected and copied under I.C. 5-14-
3 if the County Health Department takes any of the following actions with
respect to an establishment that is the subject of the records:
      (1)   Schedules a hearing by the local Health Department or designee;
      (2)   Orders closure;
      (3)   Requests revocation of a permit; and/or
      (4)   Finds the existence of an imminent danger to the public health, or
a gross deception of, or fraud upon, the consumer.
   (D)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment. Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of
receipt will not affect the operator’s obligation to correct the violations
noted in the inspection report within the date by which the violation shall be
abated.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 2-23-2010)
§ 113.08 COMPLIANCE, ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a permit to operate a retail
food establishment, mobile retail food establishment, or bed and breakfast
establishment is denied, the County Health Department shall provide the
applicant with a notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the permit denial; and
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the permit, and notice of the applicant’s right of appeal, and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided by law.
   (B)   Follow-up inspection; Health Officer response to violators. If upon a
follow-up inspection the Health Officer finds that a food operation, person, or
employee is violating any provisions of this chapter which were in violation on
the previous inspection concerning which a written order was issued, and the
date by which the violation shall be abated has passed, the Health Officer may
do any, or all, of the following:
      (1)   Offer the alleged violator an opportunity to enter into an agreed
order providing for (the Health Officer is not required to extend the offer for
more than 30 days):
         (a)   The actions required to correct the violation; and
         (b)   If appropriate, the payment of a civil penalty.
      (2)   Promptly issue a written order to the permittee of the food
operation to appear at a certain time and place in the county in order to show
cause why the permit issued under the provision of §
113.04(A) should not be revoked.
      (3)   Furnish evidence of the violation to county legal representatives
for enforcement.
   (C)   Suspension of permit. Any permit issued under this chapter may be
temporarily suspended by the Health Officer, without notice or hearing, for a
period not to exceed 30 days if the Health Officer determines through
inspection, or examination of employee, food, records, or other means as
specified in this chapter, that an imminent health hazard exists.
   (D)   Revocation of permit. The Health Officer may revoke the permit and
promptly give written notice of the action to the permittee due to any of the
following:
      (1)   Upon a meeting with the operator, as described in division (B)(2)
above, if the operator should fail to show cause why his or her permit should
not be revoked;
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his or
her duties; and/or
      (3)   Habitual non-compliance with the requirements set forth by the
State Department of Health, or by this chapter.
   (E)   Record keeping. The Health Officer shall maintain a permanent record
of proceedings, filed in the office of the County Health Department.
   (F)   Permit reinstatement. Any person whose permit has been suspended or
revoked may, at any time, make application, with demonstration of compliance,
to the Health Officer for reinstatement of his or her permit.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 2-23-2010)
§ 113.09 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by an application denial, as described in §
113.08(A), or revocation of a permit, as described in §
113.08(D), shall be entitled to a review of the final order before the County
Health Board by filing a written request therefor with the Health Officer. The
written request must be mailed certified, or hand delivered, to the Health
Officer, and must be received within 15 days after such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the County Health
Board shall hear the matter in an open hearing after at least five days’
written notice of the time, place, and nature thereof to the aggrieved person
(a shorter period of time may be granted if requested by either party and
agreed upon).
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application, or such other address as the person
shall designate in the letter, of the request to the Health Officer.
   (D)   The County Health Board establishes the rules of procedure, and
advises the parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The minutes from the hearing may act as the final order or
determination of this matter. This completes the appeals procedure.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 2-23-2010)
§ 113.10 TEMPORARY, FARMERS’ MARKET VENDOR FOOD STALLS; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Schedule of inspections. The Health Officer may establish a routine
inspection schedule, the frequency of which is at the discretion of the Health
Officer.
   (B)   Procedure to follow when any violation is noted. If during the
inspection of any temporary food establishment, or farmers’ market vendor, the
Health Officer discovers a violation of the requirements of this chapter, he or
she may order immediate correction of the violation, or set a reasonable time
for correction.
   (C)   Revocation of permit for continued operation. Upon failure of any
person maintaining or operating a temporary food establishment, or farmers’
market vendor, to comply with any order of the Health Officer, it shall be the
duty of the Health Officer to revoke the permit of the establishment, and to
forbid the further sale or serving of food therein.
   (D)   Temporary food establishment or farmers’ market vendor application. If
an application for a permit to operate a temporary food establishment, or as a
farmers’ market vendor, is denied, the County Health Department shall provide
the applicant with a notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial; and
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 2-23-2010)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless adjusted by an administrative order, the following schedule of
monetary penalties shall be used if penalties are to be assessed for violations
of 410 I.A.C. 7-22:
 
I.C./I.A.C. Code Section                                                    Penalty
                                                                            Range
                                                                            $0-100
Section 15(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) (§§ 15(a) through 15(f) of 410 per day
I.A.C. 7-22)                                                                per
                                                                            violation
                                                                            $0-100
Section 16(a) of 410 I.A.C. 7-22                                            per day
                                                                            per
                                                                            violation
                                                                            $0-50 per
Section 16(b) of 410 I.A.C. 7-22                                            day per
                                                                            violation
                                                                            $0-100
Section 17(a), 1, 2, 3 and 4; §§ 17(1) through 17(4) of 410 I.A.C. 7-22   per day
                                                                            per
                                                                            violation
 
   (B)   (1)   The County Health Department may commence an action, under I.C.
16-42-5-28, to levy civil penalties against a person who:
         (a)   Fails to comply with I.C. 16-42-5, 410 I.A.C. 7-21, or 410
I.A.C. 7-24; or
         (b)   Interferes with or obstructs the County Health Department, or
its designated agent, in the performance of duties under I.C. 16-42-5, 410
I.A.C. 7-21, or 410 I.A.C. 7-24.
      (2)   A civil penalty in an amount in the appropriate range specified in
divisions (B)(4), (B)(5), or (B)(6) below, or any combination thereof, may be
sought for each day of each violation.
      (3)   In determining the seriousness of the violation and the specific
amount of the civil penalty to be sought for each violation, the County Health
Department will consider, but is not limited to, the following (the absence of
direct harm will not result in assessment of a lower penalty for a violation):
         (a)   The potential for harm or imminent threat to public health;
         (b)   The extent of deviation from statutory or regulatory
requirements;
         (c)   Degree of willfulness or negligence; and/or
         (d)   History of non-compliance.
      (4)   Unless adjusted as provided in divisions (B)(7) and (B)(8) below,
and if penalties are to be assessed to a food establishment, as defined in I.C.
16-42-5, then they shall be assessed in accordance with the following:
 
I.C. Code Section                                                 Penalty Range
I.C. 16-42-5-6; I.C. 16-42-5-11; I.C. 16-42-5-19; I.C. 16-42-5-21 $0-1,000
I.C. 16-42-5-7; I.C. 16-42-5-12; I.C. 16-42-5-13; I.C. 16-42-5-
14; I.C. 16-42-5-15; I.C. 16-42-5-17; I.C. 16-42-5-18; I.C. 16-   $0-500
42-5-20
I.C. 16-42-5-8; I.C. 16-42-5-9; I.C. 16-42-5-10; I.C. 16-42-5-16; $0-100
I.C. 16-42-5-22
 
      (5)   Unless adjusted as provided in divisions (B)(7) and (B)(8) below,
and if penalties are to be assessed to a retail food establishment, as defined
in 410 I.A.C. 7-24, then they shall be assessed in accordance with the
following:
 
410 I.A.C. 7-24 Section                                           Penalty Range
101; 121, 129; 139; 142; 165; 171; 182; 269; 376; 423             $0-500
108; 109; 110; 111; 114; 117; 120; 137; 141(d); 143; 144; 146;
147; 149; 150; 151; 153; 154; 155; 157; 160; 162; 164; 166; 167;
168; 169; 172; 173; 181(a); 183; 186; 187; 188; 189; 193; 195;    $0-250
196; 205; 241; 274; 294; 303; 320; 321; 322; 323; 324(a)(1); 325;
329; 334; 336; 337; 339; 343; 344; 350; 357; 375; 377; 415; 437;
438; 439; 440; 441; 442; 443; 444; 445; 446; 447; 448; 450
113; 115; 118; 123; 128; 131; 132; 135; 136; 141(a); 141(b); 141
(c); 152; 156; 190; 191; 201; 204; 229; 240; 259; 264; 295(a);    $0-100
296; 297; 326; 368; 424; 435; 436
119; 122; 130; 133; 134; 138; 140; 145; 148; 158; 159; 161; 163;
170;174; 175; 176; 177; 178; 179; 180; 181(b); 181(c); 185; 197;
198; 199; 202; 203; 206; 207; 208; 209; 210; 211; 212; 213; 214;
215; 216; 217; 218; 219; 220; 221; 222; 223; 224; 225; 226; 227;
228; 230; 231; 232,233; 234; 235; 236; 237; 238; 239; 242; 243;
244; 245; 246; 247; 248; 249; 250; 251; 252; 253; 254; 255; 256;
257; 258; 260; 261; 262; 263; 265; 266; 267; 268; 270; 271; 272;
273; 275; 276; 277; 278; 279; 280; 281; 282; 283; 284; 285; 286;
287; 288; 289; 290; 291; 292; 293; 295(b); 295(c); 298; 301; 302; $0-50
304; 305; 306; 307; 308; 309; 310; 311; 312; 313; 314; 315; 316;
317; 318; 324(a)(2); 327; 328; 330; 331; 332; 333; 335; 338; 340;
341; 342; 345; 346; 347; 348; 349; 351; 352; 353; 354; 355; 356;
358; 359; 360; 361; 362; 363; 364; 365; 366; 367; 369; 371; 372;
373; 378; 379; 380; 381; 382; 383; 384; 385; 386; 387; 388; 389;
390; 391; 392; 393; 394; 395; 396; 397; 398; 399; 400; 401; 402;
403; 404; 405; 406; 407; 408; 409; 410; 411; 412; 413; 414; 416;
417; 418; 419; 420; 421; 425; 426; 427; 428; 429; 430; 431; 432;
433; 434; 449; 451
 
      (6)   Unless adjusted as provided in divisions (B)(7) and (B)(8) below,
and if penalties are to be assessed to a wholesale food establishment, as
defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-21, then they shall be assessed in accordance with the
following:
 
410 I.A.C. 7-21 Section                                           Penalty Range
35; 36(1); 36(2); 36(3); 36(4); 36(5); 39(b)(8); 40; 41; 45(a);
42(b); 45(c); 45(n); 45(p); 45(r); 46; 47(9)(B); 48; 49(d); 49    $0-100
(e); 50(d)
36(8); 37; 38; 39(a); 39(b)(1); 39(b)(2); 39(b)(3); 39(b)(4); 39
(b)(5); 39(b)(6); 39(b)(7); 42(a); 42(d); 42(e); 44(i); 45(a); 45
(b); 45(d); 45(e); 45(f); 45(g); 45(h); 45(i); 45(j); 45(k); 45   $0-500
(1); 45(m); 45(o); 45(s); 47(2); 47(3); 47(4); 47(5); 47(6); 47
(7); 47(9)(A); 47(9)(C); 50(c); 50(f); 51(a); 51(c); 51(d)
36(6); 36(7); 42(c); 43(b); 43(c); 43(d); 44(c); 44(e); 44(h); 47 $0-250
(1); 47(8); 49(a); 49(b); 49(c); 50(b); 51(b)
36(9); 43(a); 43(e); 44(a); 44(b); 44(d); 44(f); 44(g); 45(t); 47 $0-100
(10); 47(11); 47(12); 47(13); 47(14); 47(15)
 
      (7)   After reinspection and determining the appropriate penalty based on
the schedules in divisions (B)(4), (B)(5), or (B)(6) above, or any combination
thereof, the County Health Department, or its authorized representative, may
adjust the penalty to reflect a good faith effort to comply as follows:
         (a)   Each individual penalty will be multiplied by the number of days
the particular violation has been documented by the County Health Department,
or its authorized representative;
         (b)   Penalties for violations documented in two consecutive
inspections by the County Health Department, or its authorized representative,
shall be assessed on the basis that the violations have remained uncorrected
over the period of time between the two inspections;
         (c)   If the person found in violation has requested reinspection and
has produced substantive evidence that the violation, or violations, have been
corrected, the penalties shall be assessed for the period between initial
discovery of a violation and the receipt of request for reinspection; and
         (d)   Penalties for all violations documented in an inspection, or
series of inspections, at an establishment will be totaled and sought under one
cause of action.
      (8)   After filing an action under I.C. 4-21.5, and in an attempt to
resolve violations of said state code and this chapter without resort to a
hearing, the County Health Department may negotiate and enter into agreed
orders. An agreed order may suspend all, or part, of the civil penalty
calculated under the requirements and deadlines established in this chapter.
         (a)   In addition to the foregoing, civil penalties, which may include
injunctive relief, may be imposed under state law on any person who violates
any provision of this chapter.
         (b)   In the event a lawsuit is necessary to collect the cost of fees,
penalties, or services for this chapter, the individual or business entity
found to be liable shall also pay for reasonable attorney fees and cost of
litigation to the county.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 2-23-2010)
CHAPTER 114: LODGING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Applicability, general provisions
   
114.03   Minimum requirements
   
114.04   Compliance, enforcement
   
114.05   Appeals
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTIGUOUS. Sharing a common wall, floor, or ceiling.
   GUEST. Any person renting, occupying, or having actual possession of a guest
room in a lodging establishment.
   GUEST ROOM. Any room established and maintained for use as a sleeping area
for temporary or long-term occupancy in a lodging establishment.
   HABITUAL NON-COMPLIANCE. Three or more investigations of a lodging
establishment with investigation reports within the last two years
demonstrating:
      (1)   Three consecutive investigations documenting the same violation
without significant progress or actions to remediate the violation; or
      (2)   Four non-consecutive investigations documenting the same violation
without significant progress or actions to remediate the violation.
   HARBORAGE. Any place where pests can live, nest, seek shelter, or reproduce.
This includes, but is not limited to, cardboard boxes, trash, unused tires,
unused appliances, and building materials.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer having jurisdiction in the county,
or the duly authorized representative.
   INFESTATION. The presence of any pest in the lodging establishment which is
deemed likely to pose a hazard to public health through disease, injury, or
sickness.
   INVESTIGATION. An inspection of the lodging establishment during normal
business hours to ensure the minimum standards set forth by this chapter are
met. The INVESTIGATION is initiated by a complaint received from an agency or a
member of the public.
   INVESTIGATION REPORT. The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as a result of the investigation, and provided to the owner
of the lodging establishment.
   LODGING ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   A hotel, motel, or inn located in the county where space is leased,
rented, or otherwise occupied in which sleeping accommodations are provided for
a guest for either short or long-term stays.
      (2)   This definition does not include apartments, private homes, bed and
breakfast establishments, dormitories, or boarding houses.
   OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly, or severally with others:
      (1)   Has legal title to any lodging establishment, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Has charge, care, or control of the lodging establishment as OWNER,
or agent of the OWNER, or an executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian of
the estate of the owner. Any such person thus representing the actual OWNER
shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this chapter and of the rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto to the same extent as if this person
were the OWNER.
   PERSON. Includes, but not limited to, an individual, corporation, firm,
partnership, proprietorship, association, business organization, municipality,
or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual, trust, or
estate, or the agent or legal representative thereof.
   PEST. An insect, rodent, or other animal that creates a public health risk
or nuisance, including but not limited to, a bed bug, rodent, cockroach, flea,
or ant.
   UNSANITARY OR UNLAWFUL CONDUCT. Any condition that may transmit, generate,
or promote disease, injury, or sickness. This would include the existence on
the premises of an unsanitary condition that is likely to cause sickness to a
guest due to an infestation or gross unsanitary condition. Examples would
include, but are not limited to, harborage or infestation conditions.
   VIOLATION. The lack of compliance to this chapter, including the existence
of an unsanitary or unlawful condition.
(Ord. 2019-27, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 114.02 APPLICABILITY, GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption and
publication as provided by law.
   (B)   The County Health Department shall have the authority to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The County Health Officer may enter to inspect the lodging
establishment or individual guest rooms under the procedure set forth in I.C.
16-20-1-22 and 16-20-1-23, as amended from time to time, to ensure compliance
with this chapter, including taking any necessary measurements, observations,
sampling, or testing.
(Ord. 2019-27, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 114.03 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The lodging establishment is free of any unsanitary or unlawful
condition, including, but not limited to, harborage conditions, the presence of
pests, or infestations.
   (B)   The owner shall have a written policy in place for personnel,
including reception and housekeeping, to handle complaints regarding pests.
   (C)   The owner maintains pest complaint logs and pest control invoices on
the premises for at least one year. These logs and invoices may be inspected by
the Health Officer.
(Ord. 2019-27, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 114.04 COMPLIANCE, ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The representative of the Health Officer will complete, and provide to
the owner, an investigation report at the time of the on-site investigation.
   (B)   A date for correction shall be noted for each violation documented on
the investigation report.
   (C)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt of the investigation
report will not affect the owner’s obligation to correct the violations noted
in the investigation report within the date by which the violation shall be
corrected.
   (D)   If, upon investigation by the County Health Department, an unsanitary
or unlawful condition is found within the lodging establishment, the owner
shall provide educational materials and training to all applicable lodging
establishment employees on pest identification and indications of pest
activity.
   (E)   If any guest room is deemed dangerous or detrimental to life or health
because of the existence on the premises of an unsanitary or unlawful
condition, the guest room and any contiguous room shall not be occupied until
the conditions causing it to be unfit are remediated. Items shall not be moved
into, or out of, the guest room until it can be inspected by a licensed pest
control professional, and approval is provided by the Health Officer.
   (F)   If bed bugs are found in a guest room, all contiguous rooms must also
be inspected by a licensed pest control professional and treated as necessary.
Guest rooms and contiguous rooms may be not be used until approved by the
Health Officer.
   (G)   The Health Officer may order the immediate closure of a lodging
establishment for the following reasons:
      (1)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of duties.
INTERFERENCE shall be defined as the process of obstructing, hampering, or
blocking the Health Officer in the performance of duties; and/or
      (2)   As a result of continuous violation of any provision of this
chapter following an administrative hearing as set forth in this chapter.
   (H)   (1)   Whenever the Health Officer finds an infestation in a guest
room, the Health Officer may, without notice or hearing, issue and serve a
written order upon the owner requiring the immediate closure of its operations
of designated guest rooms and any contiguous rooms.
      (2)   If the infestation includes more than 25% of the guest rooms, the
entire lodging establishment may be required to close. The Health Officer shall
cite in the written order the existence of said infestation and shall specify
the corrective action(s) to be taken.
   (I)   Follow-up investigations to ensure compliance will be conducted by the
County Health Department. If, upon follow-up, the lodging establishment is
found to be in habitual non-compliance, the Health Officer may order civil
penalties and request an administrative hearing.
   (J)   The Health Officer may promptly issue a written order for an
administrative hearing to the owner to appear at a certain time and place in
the county in order to show cause as to why the lodging establishment shall
continue operation. Hearings required, or requested, under this chapter shall
be held upon at least ten days written notice to the owner of the time, place,
and nature thereof, unless a hearing is requested by the establishment owner
pursuant to an immediate closure.
   (K)   In addition to the foregoing, civil penalties, which may include
injunctive relief, may be imposed under state law on any person who violates
any provision of this chapter.
   (L)   In the event a lawsuit is necessary to collect the cost of fees,
penalties, or services for this chapter, the individual or business entity
found to be liable shall also pay for reasonable attorney fees and cost of
litigation to the county.
(Ord. 2019-27, passed 7-23-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any owner aggrieved by any order of the Health Officer shall be
entitled to a review of the order before the County Health Board by filing a
written request with the Health Officer within 15 days after such order is
issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the County Health
Board shall hear the matter in an open hearing after at least five days of the
written notice of the time, place, and nature thereof. The Health Officer and
owner may agree to a shorter time period, if requested by either party. The
notice shall be issued by Health Officer to the owner filing the request.
   (C)   The County Health Board shall make written findings of facts, and
shall enter its final order, or determination of the matter in writing.
(Ord. 2019-27, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   A civil penalty of $250, not to exceed a total of $5,000, may be sought for
each violation. Each individual penalty will be multiplied by the number of
days the particular violation has been documented by the County Health
Department. Penalties for violations documented in two consecutive
investigations shall be assessed on the basis that the violation has remained
uncorrected over the period of time between the two investigations.
(Ord. 2019-27, passed 7-23-2019)
CHAPTER 115: TATTOO, PIERCING, BODY MODIFICATION ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   General requirements
   
115.03   Physical facilities
   
115.04   Operator, artist responsibilities
   
115.05   Mobile establishments; additional requirements
   
115.06   Prohibited acts
   
115.07   Exceptions
   
115.08   Permits
   
115.09   Revocation of permit
   
115.10   Application for plan review, permit
   
115.11   Body piercing, modification; additional requirements
   
115.12   Fees
   
115.13   Inspections
   
115.14   Violations
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTIST. A person employed by an establishment to perform body piercing, body
modification, or to affix a permanent tattoo to an individual. This includes
those defined as BODY PIERCER or TATTOO ARTIST by 410 I.A.C. 1-5, or any person
who performs tattooing, boring, penetration, or tunneling through the body of a
client.
   BODY MODIFICATION. Any tattoo, body piercing, or other penetrating body art,
or the use of needles, scalpels, or other medical devices to insert devices or
modify the body for the purpose of adornment. This does not include henna
tattoos or other surface adornment.
   BRANDING. A potentially invasive procedure in which a permanent mark is
burned into, or onto, the skin using either temperature, mechanical, or
chemical means.
   CLIENT. A person or patron who receives tattooing, body piercing, or body
modification services.
   ESTABLISHMENT. A location where body piercing, body modification, and/or
tattooing are performed. This includes a FACILITY as defined by 410 I.A.C. 1-
5 and includes temporary events and mobile establishments.
   EVENT COORDINATOR. A person, or persons, responsible for the event.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department having jurisdiction in the
county.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly-appointed Health Officer having jurisdiction in the
county.
   IMPLANTING. A procedure involving the placement of an object, or multiple
objects, under the skin to mold or shape the skin outwardly for a particular
appearance.
   MOBILE ESTABLISHMENT. A tattoo, body piercing, or body modification
establishment that is wheeled, mounted on a vehicle, or otherwise readily
movable; that changes location too frequently to be a candidate for permanent
utility connections, as determined by the Health Officer.
   OPERATOR. A person who controls, operates, conducts, manages, or owns any
establishment, or any artist at a temporary event.
   SCARIFICATION. Altering skin texture by cutting the skin and controlling the
body’s healing process in order to produce wounds, which result in permanently
raised wheals, or bumps, known as keloids.
   SUSPENSION. Hanging the body from (or partially from) hooks that are placed
by body piercing.
   TATTOO REMOVAL. A procedure done to try to remove a tattoo.
   TEMPORARY EVENT. An establishment located within a permanent structure that
operates for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days for the purposes of
product demonstration, industry trade show, or education.
   TONGUE SPLITTING. Tongue bifurcation, or a type of body modification in
which the tongue is cut centrally from its tip part of the way towards its
base, forking the end.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.02 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Offer tattooing, body piercing, or other body modification services,
without a valid permit issued by the Health Officer;
   (B)   Perform a tattooing, body piercing, or other body modification
procedure in a manner that does not meet the requirements of this chapter, 410
I.A.C. 1-5, and I.C. 35-45-21-4; and/or
   (C)   Tattoo removal procedures, unless said procedures, or person, is
approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.03 PHYSICAL FACILITIES.
   In addition to the requirements of 410 I.A.C. 1-5, all body modification
establishments must comply with the following:
   (A)   The premises in which tattooing and/or body piercing occur shall be
conducted in an enclosed building or establishment. Each artist station shall
be reasonably separated from each other and from waiting clients or observers;
   (B)   Tattoo, body piercing, and other body modification establishments
shall be equipped with artificial light sources equivalent to at least 20
footcandles at a distance of 30 inches above the floor throughout the
establishment. A minimum of 40 footcandles of light shall be provided at the
level where the tattooing is being performed. Spotlighting may be used to
achieve this required degree of illumination;
   (C)   All walls and floors near equipment used for tattooing, body piercing,
or other body modification activities shall be smooth, non-absorbent, and
easily cleanable surface, and be maintained in a sanitary manner at all times;
   (D)   All tables, and other equipment, shall be constructed with a smooth,
non-absorbent, and easily cleanable finish. If used, disposable table paper
shall be changed between clients;
   (E)   Exterior doors shall be self-closing and tight fitting. Operable
windows shall have tight-fitting screens;
   (F)   Restroom facilities shall be available to employees at all times the
establishment is open for operation. The restroom shall be equipped with a
toilet, toilet paper, hand sink supplied with warm running water, liquid soap,
paper towels in dispensers or hand dryers, and a waste receptacle;
   (G)   A hand sink supplied with running water at a temperature of 100-120F,
liquid soap, paper towels in dispensers, and a waste receptacle shall be
located in close proximity of each artists station, and shall be readily
accessible and available without passing through any door or barrier. One hand
sink shall serve no more than six artists stations; and
   (H)   Equipment and supplies used in the course of tattoo and body piercing
services, or disinfection and sterilization procedures, shall not be stored or
utilized within the restroom.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.04 OPERATOR, ARTIST RESPONSIBILITIES.
   In addition to the requirements of 410 I.A.C. 1-5 and 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030,
the operator shall ensure the following:
   (A)   The use of properly calibrated autoclave sterilization units on all
reusable items, and monthly spore testing of the autoclave are mandatory. A
copy of the results of all spore tests must be submitted to the Health
Department upon receipt of each test report. Autoclave indicator tape, or other
verifiable indication of sterilization, must be used and maintained with each
reusable item until used;
   (B)   A copy of all applicable regulations must be retained on the premises;
   (C)   The following records must be maintained by all operators for at least
two years:
      (1)   A government issued ID with a photo and date of birth on each
client;
      (2)   If the client is under the age of 18, parental consent forms; and
      (3)   With respect to tattooing services, written records must also
include the professional tattooing ink used for each tattoo performed.
   (D)   Verbal and written instructions for the aftercare of the tattoo, or
other body modification, shall be provided to each client or legal guardian if
the client is under 18 years of age. The written public education materials
shall:
      (1)   Advise the client to consult a physician or dentist, as
appropriate, at the first sign of infection;
      (2)   Shall contain the name, address, and phone number of the
establishment or artist; and
      (3)   Shall be signed and dated by the artist and the client, with a copy
given to the client.
   (E)   The following information for each artist and operator shall be kept
on file at the establishment and available for inspection by the Health
Department:
      (1)   Full name, date of birth, gender, and identification photos; and
      (2)   Written documentation of one of the following:
         (a)   The completion, or declination, of the hepatitis B vaccination
series;
         (b)   Antibody testing that has revealed immunity to hepatitis B; or
         (c)   The hepatitis B vaccine is contraindicated for medical reasons.
   (F)   Before, and after, performing tattoos, body piercings, or other body
modification procedures, the artist must thoroughly wash his or her hands in
warm running water with liquid soap, then rinse his or her hands and dry with
disposable paper towels. This shall be done as often as necessary to remove
contaminants. Single-use, disposable paper products are to be used.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.05 MOBILE ESTABLISHMENTS; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to all other requirements in this chapter and 410 I.A.C. 1-5,
all mobile establishments must meet the following.
   (A)   Tattooing and/or body piercing performed pursuant to this section
shall be done only from inside an enclosed unit.
   (B)   The mobile establishment shall be used only for the purpose of
performing body modification procedures. No habitation or cooking is permitted
inside the mobile establishment.
   (C)   An adequate supply of potable water shall be maintained for the mobile
establishment at all times during operation.
   (D)   All liquid wastes shall be stored in an adequate storage tank with a
capacity at least 15% greater than the capacity of the on board potable water
supply. Liquid wastes shall be disposed of in accordance with all applicable
regulations at a site approved by the Health Department.
   (E)   A mobile establishment must receive an initial inspection at a
location specified by the Health Department prior to permit issuance to ensure
compliance with the requirements. Additional inspections may be performed at
any location where the mobile unit is operating.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.06 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   The following is strictly prohibited: tongue splitting.
   (B)   The following activities are strictly prohibited to minors (under age
18):
      (1)   Branding;
      (2)   Implanting;
      (3)   Suspension;
      (4)   Scarification; and
      (5)   Piercing of the genitalia or nipples.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.07 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Earlobe piercing and medical procedures performed by a state-licensed
medical practitioner are exempt from this chapter.
   (B)   Affixing a permanent tattoo (as defined by 410 I.A.C. 1-5-19) by a
tattoo artist under the direction and supervision of a state-licensed medical
practitioner are exempt from this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.08 PERMITS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, business
trust, corporation, or any organized group of persons may operate an
establishment unless it has first received a valid permit issued by the Health
Officer.
      (2)   The valid permit shall be prominently displayed in the
establishment, and shall not be defaced or altered in any manner.
      (3)   Only establishments who comply with the provisions of 410 I.A.C. 1-
5, as well as all applicable provisions of this chapter, shall be entitled to
obtain and keep a permit.
      (4)   A separate permit shall be required for each establishment.
      (5)   A separate permit shall be required for each artist at a temporary
event.
      (6)   An establishment permit shall not be transferable from one
establishment or operator to another.
   (B)   Permit period.
      (1)   A permit for an establishment shall be issued for a term beginning
January 1, or the date of commencement of operation, and expiring December 31
of the same year, and shall be applied for by the operator annually.
      (2)   A permit for an artist participating at a temporary event shall be
issued for no more than 14 days, and shall not exceed the duration of a single
event at a single location.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.09 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Health Officer may revoke a permit for any violation of this
chapter, I.C. 35-45- 21-4, 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030, 410 I.A.C. 1-5, and other
applicable local, state, or federal regulation.
   (B)   The revocation shall be effective immediately upon issuance by the
Health Officer.
   (C)   The Health Officer may reinstate the establishment permit upon
satisfactory compliance with this chapter, I.C. 35-42-2-7, 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030, 410 I.A.C. 1-5, and other applicable local, state, or federal
regulation.
   (D)   Appeals of orders of revocation shall be conducted pursuant to I.C. 4-
21.5-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.10 APPLICATION FOR PLAN REVIEW, PERMIT.
   (A)   The operator of a proposed establishment, or in the case of a
temporary event, the event coordinator, shall submit the following to the
Health Department at least 30 days prior to scheduling the pre-operational
inspection by the Health Department, and 30 days prior to the proposed first
day of operation:
      (1)   Properly prepared plans and specifications for review, and
approval, before the construction, or conversion, of an existing structure for
the use as an establishment;
      (2)   Proof of contract with an infectious waste removal company;
      (3)   A copy of bloodborne pathogen training for all employees;
      (4)   A copy of a written policy to meet IOSHA Bloodborne Pathogen
Standard (29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030); and
      (5)   Any other documentation deemed necessary by the Health Officer.
   (B)   The plans and specifications for an establishment shall be
satisfactory, and approved by the Health Department before a permit can be
issued.
   (C)   A pre-operational inspection shall be conducted to ensure that the
establishment is built, remodeled, or set up in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications, and to assure the establishment is in compliance with
this chapter, and 410 I.A.C. 1-5.
   (D)   Any application for a temporary event shall also include the signature
of the venue owner acknowledging that the requirements of this chapter must be
met during the temporary event.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.11 BODY PIERCING, MODIFICATION; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All supplies that come into contact with the piercing station should
be in single-portion form, including, but not limited to, anti-bacterial
ointments, iodine swabs, alcohol wipes, and corks. These packages must be wiped
down with a hospital level, hard surface disinfectant and air dried prior to
being stored in very clean, closed containers.
   (B)   All oral piercing shall be preceded by the client performing a one-
minute, vigorous application of an antiseptic mouthwash.
   (C)   All insertable jewelry is to be sterilized and kept in an individual
sterile closed container.
   (D)   All jewelry placed in new piercings must be made of one of the
following, and mill certificates from the manufacturer, or an independent
assay, must be available to prove material composition:
      (1)   Solid 14k, or higher, white or yellow nickel-free gold;
      (2)   Surgical implant stainless steel, CrNMo 316LVM, ASTM F-l 38;
      (3)   Niobium;
      (4)   Surgical implant grades of titanium;
      (5)   Solid platinum; or
      (6)   Inert plastics.
   (E)   Jewelry must have a mirror finish and be free of nicks, scratches,
burrs, and polishing compounds.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.12 FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees.
      (1)   The fee for an establishment shall be paid for a term beginning
January 1, and/or before commencement of operation, and expiring December 31 of
the same year, and shall be applied for by the operator annually.
      (2)   Fees for temporary events shall be charged per artist, and a fee
shall be charged to the event coordinator of each event.
      (3)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to an
establishment shall be specified in §
37.28.
      (4)   The fees paid under this chapter are not transferable or
refundable. A permit may not be issued to any establishment where outstanding,
or unpaid, fees or late fees are due.
   (B)   Late fees. A late renewal fee shall be assessed, as set by the Health
Department, for failure to renew a permit within 14 days after the expiration
of the permit to operate an establishment.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.13 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Health Department may conduct inspections of establishments
located in the county.
   (B)   The results of the inspections shall be provided to the operator.
   (C)   Violations noted by the Health Department shall be corrected
immediately.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 115.14 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Civil penalties, which may include injunctive relief, may be imposed
under state law on any person who violates any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event a lawsuit is necessary to collect the cost of fees,
penalties, or services for this chapter, the individual or business entity
found to be liable shall also pay for reasonable attorney fees and cost of
litigation to the county.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-9-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
130.01   Firearms; possession in buildings with a courtroom
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 FIREARMS; POSSESSION IN BUILDINGS WITH A COURTROOM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEADLY WEAPON.
         (a)   A loaded, or unloaded, firearm.
         (b)   A weapon, device, taser, or electronic stun gun; equipment,
chemical substance, or other material that in the manner it is used, could
ordinarily be used, or is intended to be used is readily capable of causing
serious bodily injury.
      FIREARM. Any weapon which is capable of, designed to, or that may be
readily converted to expel a projectile by means of an explosion.
   (B)   Possession of a firearm or deadly weapon. Except as provided in
division (C) below, a person shall not possess on, or about, his or her person
within any county building which contains a courtroom of a circuit, superior,
city, town, or small claim court, any deadly weapon.
   (C)   Exempted persons. 
      (1)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following persons while on
duty, or while appearing in court to testify in an official capacity:
         (a)   Law enforcement officers (I.C. 35-31.5-2-185);
         (b)   State Department of Corrections Officers;
         (c)   Court personnel; and
         (d)   Employees of the United States duly-authorized to carry deadly
weapons.
      (2)   Off-duty officers not testifying in an official capacity are not
exempt.
(Ord. 1992-25, passed 6-8-1992) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of §
130.01(B) shall be subject to a fine of up to $1,000 per violation, and the
County Attorney is hereby authorized to enforce this chapter through the County
Court System.
(Ord. 1992-25, passed 6-8-1992)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   FLOOD HAZARD
      
152.   STORMWATER DISCHARGE, EROSION, AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT
      
153.   LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Regulations
   
150.01   Listing of building contractors
   
150.02   Survey markers
   
150.03   Mobile home transfer, permit fees
   
150.04   Expedited improvement permits; process
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.15   Purpose
   
150.16   Authority
   
150.17   Definitions
   
150.18   Compliance
   
150.19   Fund
   
150.20   Violation
Building Code
   
150.35   Title
   
150.36   Purpose
   
150.37   Authority
   
150.38   Scope
   
150.39   Adoption of building rules, codes, standards
   
150.40   Permits; application, required, fees
   
150.41   Review of application
   
150.42   Inspections
   
150.43   Entry
   
150.44   Stop work orders
   
150.45   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.46   Quality of construction
   
150.47   Violations
   
150.48   Appeals
   
150.49   Remedies
Uniform Numbering System for Houses
   
150.60   Purpose
   
150.61   Grids established
   
150.62   Administrative officer
   
150.63   Assignment of addresses
   
150.64   Posting house numbers; standards
   
150.65   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 LISTING OF BUILDING CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   No general building contractor, electrical, plumbing, or heating
ventilation and air conditioning contractor shall operate in any manner
whatsoever in the county, except in full compliance with all provisions of this
section and after lawful issuances of permits required by this section. The
listed contractor shall be required to meet the bonding and insurance
specifications contained herein. The contractor listing status shall only be
affected by work which relates to code violations, ordinances, or regulations,
but does not involve any aesthetics, improper workmanship, or conduct not
related to these violations.
      (2)   The purpose of this section is to establish a comprehensive listing
of contractors who operate within the jurisdiction of the county, and provide
for the administration, enforcement, and amendment thereof in order to promote
the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of such jurisdiction.
      (3)   It is not intended by this section to interfere with, abrogate, or
amend any covenants or other agreements between parties, nor is it intended by
this section to repeal, abrogate, or annul, or in any way interfere with,
existing provisions of laws or ordinances not specifically repealed by this
section, or any rules or regulations previously adopted or issued pursuant to
law relating to the listing of contractors.
      (4)   This section shall apply to land within the County Planning and
Building Department’s jurisdiction.
   (B)   Listing fees. Fees shall be charged for listing contractors in the
county in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the County Board of
Commissioners (hereinafter referred to as “the Commissioners”). Fees shall
represent the cost of administering the listing program.
   (C)   Listing requirements. Any person, partnership, corporation, or other
entity engaging in any construction activity for which an improvement location
permit is required shall be a listed contractor under this section, provided,
however, that an individual constructing a new dwelling or accessory structures
for his or her own personal use or occupancy shall be exempt from the
requirements of this section upon the execution of a contractor listing
exemption form (which is incorporated herein by reference), provided that said
individual cannot obtain more than one permit for a new residence in a given
calendar year.
   (D)   Registry of listings. The County Planning and Building Department
shall maintain a registry of all persons, partnerships, corporations, and other
entities which apply for, and receive, listing as a listed contractor.
   (E)   Qualifications to be listed as a contractor.
      (1)   A person, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall be
entitled to receive a listing as a contractor if the following requirements are
met:
         (a)   An application form indicating the name, address, and legal
business status of the contractor has been submitted to the Planning and
Building Department of the county;
         (b)   The listing fee specified in division (B) above has been paid;
         (c)   A surety bond meeting the requirements of division (F) below has
been posted;
         (d)   The insurance requirements of division (G) below have been met;
         (e)   The person, partnership, corporation, or other entity does not
presently have a listing issued under this section currently suspended, nor has
such a listing been revoked within the preceding 365 days;
         (f)   The partnership does not have a partner, or the corporation does
not have an officer, who, within the preceding 365 days, served as a partner in
a partnership, an officer in a corporation, or an owner, or principal, of any
entity listed under this section at the time when actions related to policies,
or practices of the partnership or corporation occurred which provided a basis
on which the listing of the partnership, corporation, or entity was revoked or
suspended for more than 180 days; and
         (g)   The person was not a partner in a partnership, nor an officer in
a corporation, who has a listing under this section currently suspended or who
has had such listing revoked within the preceding 365 days.
      (2)   Unless these requirements are met, a person, partnership,
corporation, or other entity shall not be entitled to be listed as a
contractor. No prerequisites other than those contained in this division (E)
shall be imposed in determining which persons, partnership, corporations, or
other entities may be listed contractors.
   (F)   Bond. Before a listing is issued to any person, partnership,
corporation, or other entity, the Director shall require the applicant to file
a surety bond in the amount of $20,000. The bond shall be maintained in full
force and effect for a period of not less than one year, and must be renewed
yearly on the anniversary date of issuance. The bond shall set forth the name,
phone number, and address of the agent representing the bonding company and
shall be:
      (1)   Issued by a surety authorized to do business in the state;
      (2)   Payable to the County Board of Commissioners, or an unknown third
party as obligee;
      (3)   Conditioned upon:
         (a)   Compliance with requirements set forth in this section which
must be met to retain listing;
         (b)   Prompt payment of all fees owed to the county as set forth in
this section;
         (c)   Prompt payment to the county for any loss or expense for damages
to property of the county caused by any action of the contractor, his or her
agents, employees, principals, subcontractors, materialpersons, or suppliers in
violation of the requirements of state statute, county regulations, or this
section, which requirement must be met to properly carry out construction
activity; and
         (d)   Payment to a person, partnership, or corporation which is an
unknown third party obligee for any:
            1.   Losses arising out of violations;
            2.   Expenses necessary to correct violations; and
            3.   Reasonable court costs and attorney fees allowed by the court
incurred in connection with the commencement and prosecution of a court action
to recover such losses and expenses for violation of regulations of this
section, which requirements must be met to properly carry out construction
activity on property of the unknown third party obligee, caused by any action
of the contractor, his or her agents, employees, principals, subcontractors,
materialpersons, or suppliers while engaged in any construction activity.
However, the surety is not responsible under the bond for losses or expenses
arising out of negligent conduct or improper workmanship unless such conduct or
improper workmanship violates the requirements of the state statute, county
regulation, or this section, which requirement must be met to properly carry
out construction activity.
      (4)   The Director may accept, in lieu of the surety bond, a properly
conditioned irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of $20,000 if the County
Board of Commissioners approve the obligor financial institution as being
financially responsible, and if the County Attorney approves the letter of
credit as affording the same protections to the county, and an unknown third
party as the protection afforded by a surety bond.
      (5)   The obligation of the surety and financial institution relative to
this bond, or letter of credit, is limited to $20,000 over the one-year listing
period. A surety or financial institution may pay on the bond, or disburse from
the letter of credit to pay a claim in full at any time when that claim and
pending claims (reflected by written notice to the surety or financial
institution) together do not exceed the unpaid penalty of the bond or the
undisbursed balance of the letter of credit.
   (G)   Insurance. Insurance requirements are met if the person, partnership,
corporation, or other entity secures insurance covering all work and related
construction activity accomplished by the listed contractor, or under permits
obtained by the listed contractor, and thereafter maintain such insurance in
full force and effect:
      (1)   A public liability and property damage insurance policy insuring
the listed contractor and naming the County Board of Commissioners, or an
unknown third party as “additional insured”, and providing also for the payment
of any liability imposed by law on such listed contractor or the county arising
out of operations being performed by, or on behalf of, the listed contractor in
the minimum amounts of $500,000 for combined bodily injury and property damage
coverage, or $500,000 for any occurrence relative to which there is an injury
or death to one, or more, persons, and $100,000 for any occurrence relative to
which there is damage to property. A certificate of such policy shall be
delivered to the Director of the County Planning and Building Department;
      (2)   Worker’s compensation insurance covering the personnel employed for
death or injury arising out of operations being performed by, or on behalf of,
the listed contractor.
         (a)   A certificate of such insurance shall be delivered to the
Director of the County Planning and Building Department.
         (b)   This provision shall not apply if the listed contractor has no
employees and gives appropriate notice, in writing, to the County Planning and
Building Department; and
      (3)   The insurance carrier shall give notice both to the listed
contractor and the County Planning and Building Department at least 15 days
before such insurance is either cancelled or not renewed, and the certificate
shall state this obligation.
   (H)   Approval for listing. Approval of a person, partnership, corporation,
or other entity as a listed contractor shall be by the Director of the Planning
and Building Department acting on behalf of the County Board of Commissioners.
The listing shall be in effect for a one-year period.
   (I)   Listing not transferable. No listing issued under the provisions of
this section shall be assigned or transferred.
   (J)   Suspensions or revocation of listing. The Director of the Planning and
Building Department, acting on behalf of the County Board of Commissioners,
may, pursuant to this division (J), suspend the listing of a person,
partnership, corporation, or other entity for a period of up to 365 days, or
revoke the listing of a person, partnership, corporation, or other entity if
one of the following is shown:
      (1)   The listed contractor, or his or her agent, made any materially
false statement of fact on his or her application for the listing;
      (2)   The listed contractor, or his or her agent, failed to post and
maintain the surety bond and/or insurance required by divisions (F) and (G);
      (3)   The listed contractor, or his or her agent, failed to correct a
violation of building codes and procedures, provisions of state law,
regulations of the county, or provisions of the appropriate Building Code
relative to construction activity for which the listed contractor was
responsible as permit obtainer or permit transferee after an authorized
official or employee of the county issued a notice of a code violation, revoked
a permit, or issued a stop-work order, and the violations causing any of these
actions remained uncorrected for a period of ten days from the date when the
listed contractor received notice of the code violation, revocation of permit,
or stop-work order, or in the instance where a period of ten days was not
sufficient, such longer period of time was fixed by the authorized official, or
employee, in writing;
      (4)   The listed contractor has consistently failed to apply for, or
obtain, required permits for construction activity;
      (5)   The listed contractor has consistently failed to timely file
certificates of completion and occupancy, as required, for construction
activity accomplished pursuant to his or her listing;
      (6)   The listed contractor consistently failed to give notice of
availability for inspection at designated stages of construction activity;
      (7)   The listed contractor has attempted to conceal violations of
building codes and procedures, provisions of state law, ordinances, and
regulations of the county, or provisions of this section relative to
construction activity;
      (8)   The listed contractor has not properly paid the fee specified in
division (B) above for a listing which has been issued, or is delinquent in
other fees owed pursuant to this section;
      (9)   The partnership presently has a partner, or the corporation
presently has an officer, who has a listing under this section currently
suspended, or who has had such listing revoked within the preceding 365 days;
      (10)   The partnership presently has a partner, or the corporation
presently has an officer, who, within the preceding 365 days, served as a
partner in a partnership, or an officer in a corporation, listed under this
section at the time when actions related to policies or practices of the
partnership, or corporation, occurred which provided a basis on which the
listing of the partnership, or corporation, was revoked or suspended for more
than 180 days; or
      (11)   The person was a partner in a partnership, or an officer in a
corporation, who has a listing under the this section currently suspended, or
who has had such listing revoked within the preceding 365 days.
   (L)   Hearing and appeal of Director’s decision. The contractor shall have
the right to appeal the Director’s decision to the County Board of
Commissioners in accordance with the following procedures.
      (1)   The date and place for a revocation or suspension hearing shall be
fixed by the County Board of Commissioners at least ten days before such date.
A written copy of the charges, prepared by the county, and notice of the time
and place of the hearing thereon, shall be served upon the listed contractor,
either by hand delivery to the charged listed contractor, or by certified mail
with return receipt addressed to the listed contractor at his or her main place
of business as shown by the listed contractor’s application for listing. Ten
more days shall run from the date of such notice is mailed as shown by the post
mark thereon.
      (2)   The listed contractor may appear in person, or by counsel, produce
evidence (including testimonial and documentation evidence), make argument, and
cross examine witnesses at such hearing. The county shall have the same right.
The County Board of Commissioners may cause, or allow, any other relevant
evidence to be introduced. On the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing, the Board shall make findings and enter an order in accordance with
such findings, which shall not become effective until ten days after the
notice, and copy thereof, has been served upon the listed contractor, in the
same manner required for the notice of the hearing.
      (3)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the County Board of
Commissioners may present to the County Circuit Court, or another court of
competent jurisdiction, a verified petition setting forth that the decision is
illegal in whole, or in part, and specifying the grounds of illegality.
      (4)   If so appealed, the order of the County Board of Commissioners
shall be stayed until the appeal is heard, and determined, by the County
Circuit Court. The Court shall thereupon render such decision as it finds
justified and sustained by the evidence, either affirming, reversing, or
modifying the terms of the order of the Board of Commissioners.
   (M)   Improper display. It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership,
corporation, or other entity accomplishing construction activity to use the
word “listed” in connection with its business if such person, partnership,
corporation, or other entity is not a listed contractor. Such person,
partnership, corporation, or other entity shall not, for example, use the word
“listed” on any display used for advertising or identification, or on any of
his or her, or its, business forms.
(Ord. 1996-43, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 SURVEY MARKERS.
   (A)   Except as provided by this section, it is made unlawful for any
person, or government entity, to move, change, damage, or otherwise alter a
monument marking a section corner, HARN point, or GPS point without complying
with provisions of I.C. 36-2-12-13.
   (B)   Any person or government entity who moves, changes, damages, or
otherwise alters a monument marking a section corner, HARN point, or GPS point
shall reimburse the county for the cost of repairing or replacing the monument.
   (C)   A person may, for excavation, mineral extraction, or other purposes
related to the person’s business, including the activities described in
division (E) below, temporarily remove a monument marking, a section corner, or
a GPS point.
      (1)   The person must notify, in writing, the County Surveyor at least 30
days before removing the monument.
      (2)   The person must, within a reasonable time, either replace the
monument at the person’s expense, utilizing a registered land surveyor under
the supervision of the County Surveyor or, if the County Surveyor is not
registered under I.C. 25-21.5 or I.C. 25-31, the registered person who is
appointed by the County Board of Commissioners under I.C. 36-2-12-11, or have
the County Surveyor replace the monument.
   (D)   The person shall reimburse the county for the cost of such supervision
or replacement by the County Surveyor. The County Surveyor shall file a copy of
the notice in the corner record book.
   (E)   Only the County Surveyor, or his or her designee, may change the
location of any monument. A person who wishes to have the location of a
monument changed must make a request to the County Surveyor, in writing, and
furnish written approval of all landowners whose property is affected by the
proposed change.
   (F)   The County Surveyor may approve, reject, or modify the request, and
shall file a copy of the notice and the landowners’ consents in the corner
record book.
   (G)   When, in the construction or maintenance of a state, county, or
municipal road or street, it is necessary to remove or bury a monument marking
a section corner or GPS point, the owner of the public right-of-way shall
notify the County Surveyor, in writing, at least 15 days before commencing the
work.
   (H)   The County Sheriff, or his or her designee, any deputy of the County
Sheriff’s Department, or the County Surveyor may issue a citation under the
terms and conditions of this section.
   (I)   All fines imposed for violations of this section shall be deposited in
the County Surveyor’s Corner Stone Perpetuation Fund.
Statutory reference:
   Statutory authority on survey markers: I.C. 36-2-12-13.
(Ord. 2004-41, passed 12-18-2004) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 MOBILE HOME TRANSFER, PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   A fee of $10 shall be charged by the County Treasurer for each mobile
home moving permit, or transfer of title permit, issued by the County
Treasurer. The County Treasurer shall post the fee set forth in this section in
a prominent place within the Treasurer’s Office where the fee schedule is
readily accessible to the public.
   (B)   Such fee shall be paid at, or prior to, the time of the request in
cash, or by check or money order payable, and delivered, to the County
Treasurer. The sum of $10 of each such fee collected shall be deposited in the
County General Fund.
(Ord. 2017-54, passed 12-12-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 EXPEDITED IMPROVEMENT PERMITS; PROCESS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   To provide an expedited improvement location permit process that
improves service to the general public. Due to the increase in demand for
building and subdivision related services, the Planning and Building Department
has had an increase in the amount of flex time accumulated for employees who
provide these services.
      (2)   The intent of this section is to pay employees for excess amounts
of flex time they have accumulated in order to have more people available
during regular business hours instead of having these employees out of the
office using their flex time.
      (3)   In addition, the intent of this section is to provide funding for
improvements to the general county permitting process, which will make
permitting procedures easier, faster, and more convenient for citizens, and
avoid the need for special expedited permitting procedures in the future.
Improvements may include consulting services, internet services, hardware,
software, or any other procedural improvements the County Board of
Commissioners deem appropriate.
   (B)   Establishment of expedited process.
      (1)   An expedited improvement location permit can be obtained by paying
an additional fee. The expedited improvement location permit fee is established
by the County Board of Commissioners through §
37.25.
      (2)   The application review process guarantees that the application will
be reviewed and issued, or denied, within one business day of the application
of the permit.
      (3)   The inspection process guarantees an inspection within one business
day of the inspection request. The inspection request must be scheduled between
8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
      (4)   No inspection request left on the Department answering service will
be processed.
      (5)   This section hereby establishes Fund 286, Building Inspection Fees,
as the official fund for the expedited improvement location permit process.
   (C)   Establishment of outside reviewers and inspectors.
      (1)   In order to guarantee expedited reviews and inspections, at times
it will be necessary for the Department to hire qualified outside reviewers and
inspectors.
      (2)   The Department will pay the reviewers and inspectors an equivalent
fee pursuant to §
37.25. This fee will be paid out of Fund 286, Building Inspection Fees.
   (D)   Process to pay employees for overtime and/or flex time, and other
improvements to the permitting process.
      (1)   The overtime and/or flex time accumulated for the services
described in this section may be paid from Fund 286, Building Inspection Fees,
and appropriated by the County Council.
      (2)   Monies from Fund 286, Building Inspection Fees, may be used to
provide improvements to the permitting process as described herein.
(Ord. 2007-26, passed 11-6-2007)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Under the provisions of the I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established
the County Unsafe Building Law.
   (B)   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby incorporated by reference in
the County Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within the county for the
inspection, repair, and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by said
law and the provisions of this subchapter. In the event the provisions of this
subchapter conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28,
then the provisions of the state statute shall control.
   (C)   All buildings, or portions thereof, within the county which are
determined, after inspection by the Building Commissioner, to be unsafe, as
defined in §
150.17, are hereby declared to be public nuisances, and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
(Ord. 1987-12, passed 12-19-1987)
§ 150.16 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The County Building Commissioner, as chief administrative officer of
the County Planning and Building Department, shall be authorized to administer,
and to proceed under, the provisions of said law in ordering the repair, or
removal, of any buildings found unsafe as specified therein, or as specified
hereafter.
   (B)   Wherever in the building regulations of the county, or the County
Unsafe Building Law, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval
of, or subject to the direction of, the Building Commissioner, or any other
officer of the county, this shall be construed to give such officer only the
discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by
ordinance have been complied with; and no such provisions shall be construed as
giving any officer discretionary powers as to what such regulations or
standards shall be, power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance, or
to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(Ord. 1987-12, passed 12-19-1987)
§ 150.17 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects, hereinafter described, provided that such conditions or
defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or safety of the
public, or its occupants, are endangered:
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size, or is so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (b)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway,
or other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe as
to not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (c)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion
thereof, due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times
the working stress, or stresses, allowed for new buildings of similar
structure, purpose, or location;
         (d)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the
structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before
such catastrophe, and is less than the minimum requirement for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location;
         (e)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
         (f)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance,
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
         (g)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls, or other structural portions, have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
         (h)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the
removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for
the purpose of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay, or
inadequacy of its foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially, or
completely, collapse;
         (i)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used;
         (j)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33%, or more, damage or deterioration of its supporting member, or
members, or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members
enclosing, or outside walls or coverings;
         (l)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons
for the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this county, or of any law or ordinance of this state or county relating to
the condition, location, or structure of buildings;
         (n)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-
supporting part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part,
member, or portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics, required by
law in the case of a newly-constructed building of like area, height, and
occupancy in the same location;
         (o)   Whenever a building or structure used, or intended to be used,
for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or arrangement, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise is determined by the County Health Officer
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
         (p)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exist, or lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined by the authorized fire
official to be a fire hazard; and
         (q)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building, or portion thereof, an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
   (B)   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST, set forth in I.C. 36-
7-9-2, is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(Ord. 1987-12, passed 12-19-1987)
§ 150.18 COMPLIANCE.
   All work for the reconstruction, repair, or demolition of buildings and
other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according to
the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions of the
building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission, shall be considered standard and
acceptable practice for all matters covered by this subchapter, or orders
issued pursuant to this subchapter by the County Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 1987-12, passed 12-19-1987)
§ 150.19 FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
county in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 1987-12, passed 12-19-1987)
§ 150.20 VIOLATION.
   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee, or
occupant, shall erect, construe, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve/remove,
demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to, or in violation of, any of the
provisions of this subchapter, or any order issued by the Building
Commissioner. Any person violating the provisions of this subchapter, or I.C.
36-7-9-28, shall commit a Class C infraction for each day such violation
continues.
(Ord. 1987-12, passed 12-19-1987) Penalty, see §
150.99
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.35 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of the County of Hendricks, Indiana”, may be
cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this code” or “this
subchapter”.
(Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 150.36 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety, and general welfare,
and for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings
and structures.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 150.37 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter. Whenever in this
subchapter it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner or any other officer of
the County Planning and Building Department, this shall be construed to give
such officer only the discretion of determining whether this subchapter has
been complied with, and no such provision shall be construed as giving any
officer discretionary powers as to what this subchapter shall be, or power to
require conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to enforce this subchapter
in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 150.38 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the placement, construction,
alterations, repair, use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings
and structures, other than fences, in the county.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 150.39 ADOPTION OF BUILDING RULES, CODES, STANDARDS.
   (A)   Building rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, as set out in the following articles of 675 I.A.C. are hereby
incorporated by reference in this subchapter, and shall include later
amendments to those articles as the same are published in the Indiana Register
or the Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein.
   (B)   Building rules of the International Code Council for commercial as set
out in the International Building Code are hereby incorporated by reference in
this subchapter and shall include later amendments to the code as the same are
published with the International Code Council with effective dates as fixed
therein.
   (C)   The county modified this section to have higher building code
standards.
      a.   R315.3 Location
      Carbon monoxide alarms in dwelling units shall be installed outside of
each separate sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of the bedrooms and on
each level of the residence if the dwelling unit contains a fuel-fired
appliance and/or the unit has an attached garage with an opening that
communicates with the dwelling unit. Where a fuel-burning appliance is located
within a bedroom or its attached bathroom, a carbon monoxide alarm shall be
installed within the bedroom.
   (D)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes, and standards are on file in
the office of the County Planning and Building Department.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 150.40 PERMITS; APPLICATION, REQUIRED, FEES.
   (A)   Application for permits. No permits shall be issued for the foregoing
purposes, unless the application for a permit meets all applicable requirements
of the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Control Ordinance of the county, and is
accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed location showing lot
boundaries, dimensions, easements, building setback requirements, water supply
systems, sewage disposal systems, drainage systems, and waterways, and the
street or road name and location to which the property has access, and by plans
and specifications showing the work to be done. Applications for all buildings
other than accessory and agricultural residential buildings, shall be
accompanied by a plot plan certified by a land surveyor or engineer registered
in the state, showing the requirements as established by resolution by the
County Planning Commission, and by plans and specifications showing the work to
be done. Plans and specifications shall include the foundation, basement,
floor, roof, wall cross-section, and layouts of the electrical, plumbing,
heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems. All plans for building
construction under the authority of the State Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission must also be filed with the State Building Commissioner. In
addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State Building Commissioner
and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1, shall be provided to the
Building Commissioner before issuance of a permit for construction covered by
such design release.
   (B)   Permit required. A permit shall be obtained before beginning
construction, alteration, repair, or placement of any building or structure, as
required by the Zoning Ordinance of the county. All permits shall be issued by
the Building Commissioner, and all fees provided for herein shall be paid to
the County Planning and Building Department.
   (C)   Other ordinances. All work done under any permit shall be in full
compliance with all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the
fees for permits, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in such ordinances.
   (D)   Fees. Permits required by division (B) above shall be issued upon
approval and prior payment of inspection fees according to the County Plan
Commission.
      (1)   Applications and petitions shall be accompanied by cash, check,
credit card, or money order made payable to the County Planning and Building
Department, in an amount which is in accordance with the County Plan Commission
fee schedule.
      (2)   Until all applicable fees have been paid in full, no application
shall be processed by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 150.41 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications to determine if the applicant
has secured any other county or state permits associated with the improvement;
   (C)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (D)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (E)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
      (3)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 150.42 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall make, or shall cause to be made, the inspections of the work being done
as are necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter and the terms of the permit. Work found to be incomplete or not
ready for inspection is subject to reinspection before work progresses.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall in all cases designate the stage of
construction when each required inspection must be requested by the permit
holder in accordance with this subchapter.
   (C)   In addition to the inspections specified above, the Building
Commissioner may make or require other inspections of any construction work to
ascertain compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and other laws
which are enforced by the County Planning and Building Department.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 150.43 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner, or his
or her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any
building, structure, or premises in the county to perform any duty imposed upon
him or her by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 150.44 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be
done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by
the Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 150.45 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure placed, erected,
altered, or repaired after the adoption of this subchapter shall be issued
unless such building or structure was placed, erected, altered, or repaired in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to
occupy any such building or structure unless a full, partial, or temporary
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022) Penalty, see
§
150.99
§ 150.46 QUALITY OF CONSTRUCTION.
   All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 150.47 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sublessee, or occupant, to place, erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure in the county, or cause or permit the same to be done,
contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022) Penalty, see
§
150.99
§ 150.48 APPEALS.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s
decision first through the County Board of Commissioners and then to the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 150.49 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the county, bring actions in
the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county for mandatory and injunctive
relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders
made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022) Penalty, see
§
150.99
UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR HOUSES
§ 150.60 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To establish a Uniform House Numbering System for the systematic
numbering of houses and structures located within the jurisdictional area of
the County Plan Commission.
   (B)   The numbering of houses and other structures in an orderly and
systematic manner will make the location of houses and structures more
expeditious in cases of fire emergencies, in situations involving immediate
need for medical attention for occupants of a house or structure, and in
instances where police protection may be required. An orderly and systematic
numbering system will also enhance the delivery of goods and services, as well
as increase the efficiency of operations such as postal delivery.
(Ord. 1993-34, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 150.61 GRIDS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Uniform House Numbering System is generally based on the Lyman
System by assignment of 1,000 addresses per mile. Even- numbered addresses
shall be assigned on the north and west sides of streets, and odd-numbered
addresses shall be assigned on the south and east sides of streets.
   (B)   The grid system to be used is constructed on a north, south, east, and
west basis using the existing base roads in the County Highway System. Each
mile of roadway becomes a “block” for uniform house numbering. The road
numbering system begins within the Town of Danville at the intersection of
sections 3, 4, 9 and 10, township 15 north, range 1 west.
      (1)    Base Road north shall be that portion of county road that lies
along County Road “0" extending north from the aforesaid starting point to the
address range of 4250, from this point Base Road north shall lie along the
section line between sections 15 and 16, township 15 north, range 1 west, and
extend north to the Boone county line. The numerical portion of the address
will not exceed 10999.
      (2)   Base Road south shall be that portion of county road that lies
along the section line extending south from the aforesaid starting point to
County Road 200 south. From this point, Base Road south shall lie along County
Road “0" and extend to the Morgan county line. The numerical portion of the
address will not exceed 10999.
      (3)   Base Road east shall be that portion of county road that lies along
east Main Street extending east from the aforesaid starting point to the
address range of 5250, from this point, Base Road east shall lie along U.S.
Highway 36 extending east to the Marion county line. The numerical portion of
the address will not exceed 10999.
      (4)   Base Road west shall be that portion of county road that lies along
U.S. Highway 36 extending west to the Putnam county line. The numerical portion
of the address will not exceed 8999.
   (C)   The Uniform House Numbering System shall utilize the current official
county road numbers, and add to them a prefix with a numerical location
followed by a letter indicating the general direction the road runs from the
Base Road. For example: 2460 West County Road 400 S.
   (D)   The current addressing scheme of the towns of Brownsburg, North Salem,
Pittsboro, and Plainfield shall be taken into account for areas adjoining each
incorporated area.
(Ord. 1993-34, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 150.62 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Secretary of the County Plan Commission, or his or her designee,
shall be the Administrative Officer, and he or she shall be in charge of
issuing addresses to houses and structures in compliance with this subchapter.
The Administrative Officer shall issue numbers to all new houses or structures,
renumber houses and structures whenever it becomes necessary to do so in the
implementation of the Uniform House Numbering System, and cause the numbering
of all existing homes or structures which are not numbered to be numbered in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. Barns, sheds, and
outbuildings not used for human habitation or for a business shall not be
numbered.
   (B)   The Administrative Officer may establish written guidelines to use in
implementing this subchapter, and may amend such guidelines from time to time,
subject to prior approval of the County Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The Administrative Officer must assign numbers to houses or structures
that are situated on private streets within the jurisdictional area of the
County Plan Commission.
(Ord. 1993-34, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 150.63 ASSIGNMENT OF ADDRESSES.
   (A)   From the effective date of this subchapter, the numbering of all
houses and structures located on lots, or parcels of land, abutting the public
or private streets within the jurisdictional area of the County Plan Commission
shall be accomplished in conformity with the Uniform House Numbering System.
      (1)   At the time of the issuance of any permit for the construction of a
house or structure, a number shall be assigned by the Administrative Officer to
the house or structure as provided. The number shall be included on the permit.
      (2)   No permit authorizing the occupancy of a house or structure shall
be issued, and no final inspection of a house or structure performed for the
purpose of permitting its occupancy shall be deemed complete unless the house
or structure displays, at the time of inspection, the officially assigned
number in full compliance with the standards of this subchapter.
   (B)   Houses and structures that were numbered prior to the effective date
of this subchapter shall be renumbered in order that they may comply with the
Uniform House Numbering System, and so that the numerical harmony throughout an
area, or areas, is achieved. The Administrative Officer shall authorize such
changes.
   (C)   The Administrative Officer shall provide a notification of the
issuance of numbers, or the renumbering of houses and structures. Notification
shall be made reasonably ahead of impending changes so as to allow interested
groups and agencies to plan, and to prepare, for the proposed changes. The
Administrative Officer shall keep accurate records and shall, from time to
time, prepare, and make available, to the County Board of Commissioners a
report of the status of the implementation of the Uniform House Numbering
System. In the assignment of house numbers, the Administrative Officer shall
use his or her best judgment, and shall carefully consider and evaluate all
contingencies and shall, with due regard to the sensitive nature of the job
assigned to it, be considerate of the citizens of the county.
(Ord. 1993-34, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 150.64 POSTING HOUSE NUMBERS; STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   On, or after, November 1, 1993, the owner of a house or
structure located within the jurisdictional area of the County Plan Commission
shall post the officially assigned numbers in English, using Arabic (not Roman)
numerals in a location providing easy identification from the abutting street.
      (2)   The official number shall be attached to the mail box in accordance
with postal regulations, on a post outside light, or on any prominent place on
the house or structure so that the number is identifiable.
   (B)   The number shall be a minimum of three inches in height and made of a
durable, weatherproof material. The color of the number must stand out from its
background.
   (C)   If a mailbox is located on a street other than the one on which a
individual resides, the individual street name and house number must be posted
on the mailbox.
   (D)   The ideal mailbox support is an assembly which, if struck, will bend
or fall away from the striking vehicle. The use of heavy metal posts, concrete
posts, and similar materials, should be avoided.
   (E)   If a house or structure is not visible from a street, or if a house or
structure is more 200 feet from a street, the number shall be displayed at the
entrance to the access road or driveway to the house or structure by means of a
separate marker or on a mail box.
(Ord. 1993-34, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 150.65 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for injunction in the
courts of the county to restrain any person, firm, or corporation who shall
take down, alter, deface, destroy, or conceal any number assigned to, or placed
upon, any house or structure in compliance with this subchapter, or who shall
place or substitute, or permit to be placed or substituted, upon any house or
structure an erroneous or improper number not in compliance with this
subchapter, or who shall allow to be retained upon any house or structure an
erroneous, or improper, number not in compliance with this subchapter. The
County Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for mandatory injunction
directing a person, firm, or corporation to correct any violation of the
provisions of this subchapter, or to bring about compliance with the provisions
of this subchapter. If the Board is successful in any suit, the defendant or
respondent shall bear the costs of the action, including all reasonable
attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 1993-34, passed 10-11-1993)
   § 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or government entity who violates §
150.02 shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and may be fined up to $2,000
for each monument moved, changed, damaged, or otherwise altered, and all costs,
including court costs and attorney’s fees for each violation, and shall
reimburse the county for all costs of repairing or replacing each said
monument.
   (C)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
150.35 through
150.49, or shall do any act prohibited therein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined within the time prescribed by the Building Commissioner,
or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the
Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of §§
150.35 through
150.49 for each such violation, failure, or refusal, such person, firm, or
corporation shall be fined in any sum not less than $10, nor more than $200.
Each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first sentence of
this division (C) shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation owning or occupying a house or
structure who shall fail to number a house or structure, or who shall fail to
maintain the number of such house or structure as provided in §§
150.60 through
150.65 shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of §§
150.60 through
150.65, and shall be fined a sum of not less than $25, nor more than $100 for
each days’ violation.
(Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-29-1987; Ord. 1993-34, passed 10-11-1993; Ord. 2004-
41, passed 12-18-2004; Ord. 2022-29, passed 6-28-2022)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD HAZARD
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Establishment of districts
   
151.03   Designation and duties; Zoning Administrator
   
151.04   Permitted uses
   
151.05   Other uses; non-conforming uses
   
151.06   Variances
   
151.07   National Flood Insurance Program
   
151.08   Liability
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved, or unimproved, real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings and other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   NATURAL RESOURCES. The State Natural Resources Commission.
   PRIMARY FLOODPLAIN. Any floodplain, floodway, or floodway fringe district,
or combination thereof as illustrated on the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map,
as prepared by the Federal Insurance Administration.
   SECONDARY FLOODPLAIN. Those areas which have, or contain, soils identified
as bottom land soils as illustrated by the Soil Survey of the county.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to the
ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories, sheds, detached
garages, cabins, mobile homes, and other similar items.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. A flood having a peak discharge which can be expected to
be equaled, or exceeded, on the average of once in a 100-year period, as
calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to, and approved by,
the State Natural Resources Commission. This flood is equivalent to a flood
having the probability of occurrence of 100% in any given year.
(Ord. 2 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 151.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Primary Floodplain District areas subject to inundation by the
regulatory flood, as identified by the Federal Insurance Administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood Insurance Study for the
County of Hendricks, Indiana” dated September 16, 1980, with the accompanying
Flood Insurance Rate Maps, along with any subsequent revisions to the text or
maps, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Secondary Floodplain District, areas subject to inundation by the
regulatory flood, as identified as “bottom land soil” in a report entitled
“Soil Survey of Hendricks County, Indiana”, along with any subsequent revisions
to the text or maps, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part
of this chapter.
   (C)   The Flood Insurance Study and the Soil Survey of the county are on
file at the office of the County Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 151.03 DESIGNATION AND DUTIES; ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator for the county is appointed to review all
development and subdivision proposals to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 151.04 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The following uses have a low flood damage potential and do not
obstruct flood flows.
   (B)   These uses shall be permitted by right within the Primary and
Secondary Floodplain Districts to the extent that they are not prohibited by
any other ordinance, and provided they do not require structures, fill, or
storage of materials or equipment:
      (1)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture grazing,
orchards, plant nurseries, and vineyards;
      (2)   Forestry, wildlife areas, and nature preserves; and
      (3)   Parks and recreational uses, such as golf courses, driving ranges,
and play areas.
(Ord. 2 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 151.05 OTHER USES; NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   All development applications located in the Primary Floodplain
District which are not permitted by right will require the review and approval
by the Natural Resources prior to the issuance of a local permit. The Zoning
Administration shall require the approvals of the Natural Resources prior to
the issuance of any local permit.
   (B)   All development applications located in the Secondary Floodplain
District having a drainage area of more than one square mile shall first be
submitted to, and a permit or letter of approval, and/or recommendation,
obtained from the Natural Resources. Such approvals from the Natural Resources
shall be obtained prior to issuance of any local permits, and/or approvals by
the Zoning Administration and/or the County Plan Commission.
   (C)   All development applications located in the Secondary Floodplain
District having a drainage area of one square mile or less shall be submitted
directly to the Zoning Administration and/or the County Plan Commission. The
burden of proof of acceptability of the proposed construction shall be with the
person desiring to construct. Complete and thorough plans and specifications
for the proposed construction, prepared and certified by a professional
engineer, shall be submitted with any request for permits.
   (D)   Any building, structure, or use of land in the Primary and Secondary
Floodplain Districts which is not in conformance with this chapter constitutes
a non-conforming use. All applications to repair, extend, or enlarge a non-
conforming use shall be forwarded to the Natural Resources for review and
comment. All terms and conditions imposed by the Natural Resources shall be
incorporated into the issuance of any local permit.
(Ord. 2 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 151.06 VARIANCES.
   Applications for variances to the provisions of this chapter shall be
forwarded to the Natural Resources for review and comment. All terms and
conditions imposed by the Natural Resources shall be incorporated into the
issuance of any local permit.
(Ord. 2 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 151.07 NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM.
   The Zoning Administrator, during his or her review of improvement location
permits, shall assure that all NFIP regulations pertaining to state and federal
permits, subdivision review, mobile home tie downs standards, utility
construction, record keeping (including lowest floor elevations), and
watercourse alternation and maintenance have been met.
(Ord. 2 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 151.08 LIABILITY.
   Larger floods can, and will, occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this
chapter does not create any liability on the part of the community, the Natural
Resources, or the state for any damages that result from reliance on this
chapter, or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2 1981, passed 2-17-1981)
CHAPTER 152: STORMWATER DISCHARGE, EROSION, AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Authority; title
   
152.002   Applicability; exemptions
   
152.003   Background
   
152.004   Findings
   
152.005   Purpose
   
152.006   Responsibility for administration
   
152.007   Definitions
   
152.008   Abbreviations
Prohibited Discharges, Connections
   
152.020   Applicability; exemptions
   
152.021   Prohibited discharges, connections
   
152.022   Exempted discharges, connections
   
152.023   Storage of hazardous, toxic materials
   
152.024   Private property maintenance duties
   
152.025   Spill reporting
   
152.026   Inspections, monitoring
Stormwater Quantity Management
   
152.040   Applicability; exemptions
   
152.041   Policy on stormwater quantity management
   
152.042   Calculations, design standards, specifications
   
152.043   Drainage easement requirements
   
152.044   Placement of utilities
   
152.045   Structures near county regulated drains
   
152.046   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, reporting
Stormwater Pollution Prevention; Construction Sites
   
152.060   Applicability; exemptions
   
152.061   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention
   
152.062   Calculations, design standards, specifications
   
152.063   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, reporting
Stormwater Quality Management; Post-Construction
   
152.075   Applicability; exemptions
   
152.076   Policy on stormwater quality management
   
152.077   Calculations, design standards, specifications
   
152.078   Easement requirements
   
152.079   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, reporting
Stormwater Management Permitting Requirements, Procedures
   
152.090   Primary drainage plan approval
   
152.091   Permitting procedures
   
152.092   SWPPP review time limits
   
152.093   Secondary stormwater approval requirements
   
152.094   Review of individual lots, parcels
   
152.095   Changes to plans
   
152.096   Fee structure
   
152.097   Required assurances
   
152.098   Terms and conditions of approvals, permits
   
152.099   Certification of as-built plans
Compliance and Enforcement
   
152.110   Compliance
   
152.111   Enforcement
   
152.112   Cost of abatement
   
152.113   Appeals
Editor’s note:
   The companion technical manual (the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual) should be consulted along with the provisions of this
chapter. A copy can be obtained from the County Surveyor’s Office.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 AUTHORITY; TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted in accordance with statutory authority granted
to the county under “Home Rule”, and further required by Phase II of the
National Pollution Discharge Elimination System program (FR Doc. 99–29181)
authorized by the 1972 amendments to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana
Department of Environmental (IDEM) Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4)
General Permit (MS4 GP) and Construction Stormwater General Permit (CSGP).
Based on this authority and these requirements, this chapter regulates:
      (1)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows into the storm drain
system.
      (2)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to development of lands
located within the county.
      (3)   Drainage control systems installed during new construction and
grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (4)   Erosion and sediment control systems installed during new
construction and grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (5)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems.
      (6)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems.
      (7)   The design, construction, and maintenance of new dams.
      (8)   The development downstream of existing dams.
      (9)   Development within floodways, floodplains, fluvial erosion hazard
corridors, and bluff zones.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Hendricks County
Stormwater Management Ordinance.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.002 APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall regulate all development and redevelopment
occurring within the county, falling under the jurisdictional authority of the
County Drainage Board, the County Surveyor, and the Clean Water Department. No
building permit shall be issued and no land disturbance started for any
construction in a development, as defined in §
152.007, until the plans required by this chapter for such construction have
been accepted in writing by the county. With the exception of the requirements
of §§
152.020 through
152.026 and §
152.113, single-family dwelling houses in accepted subdivisions, new buildings
(or cumulative building additions) with less than 500 square feet of area, and
land-disturbing activities affecting less than 5,000 square feet of area shall
be exempt from the requirements of this chapter. Also exempt from this chapter
shall be the agricultural land-disturbing activities.
   (B)   County government projects shall be required to obtain a stormwater
permit and are expected to meet all applicable technical requirements of this
chapter and the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   Any construction project which has had its final secondary drainage
plan accepted by the county within a two-year period prior to the effective
date of this chapter or the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual shall be required to only abide by those provisions that were in effect
prior to this update.
   (D)   It is the policy of the County Drainage Board that any primary
approval application received by the Drainage Board for development of real
estate shall comply with all existing ordinances at the time of application to
the Drainage Board.
   (E)   It is the policy of the County Drainage Board that all primary
approvals by the Board are good for 24 months from the date of approval by the
Board. After which time the County Drainage Board, based on the recommendation
of the County Surveyor, may require a revised primary approval for said
development.
   (F)   It is the policy of the County Drainage Board that all primary
applications shall adhere to and comply with release rates determined by a
detailed watershed study or additional information, if more restrictive than
what is required in this chapter or its updates effective at the time of
application.
   (G)   It is the policy of the County Drainage Board that all secondary
approval applications shall adhere to and comply with the drainage ordinances
effective at the time of application if the application is received within 24
months of the primary application approval.
   (H)   It is the policy of the County Drainage Board that all secondary
applications shall adhere to and comply with release rates determined by a
detailed watershed study or additional information, if more restrictive than
what is required in this chapter or its updates effective at the time of
application.
   (I)   The County Drainage Board and/or the County Surveyor has the authority
to modify, add to, grant exemptions, and/or waive any and all the requirements
of this chapter and its associated technical standards document. A pre-
submittal meeting with county staff may be requested by the applicant to
discuss the applicability of various provisions of the chapter and its
associated technical standards document with regards to unique or unusual
circumstances relating to a project. However, any initial determination of such
applicability shall not be binding on future determinations of county staff
that may be based on the review of more detailed information and plans.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.003 BACKGROUND.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners adopted Ordinance No. 2001-33 in December
2001 which established “Storm Drainage, Erosion, and Sediment Control Ordinance
of Hendricks County”, commonly known as the “Hendricks County Drainage Code”,
in order to govern the control of runoff of stormwater and to protect, conserve
and promote the orderly development of the land in the county and its water
resources. This code was primarily targeted at stormwater discharge quantity,
and erosion and sediment control.
   (B)   On December 8, 1999, Phase II of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit program, was published in the Federal
Register. The NPDES program, as authorized by the 1972 amendments to the Clean
Water Act, controls water pollution by regulating point sources that discharge
pollutants into waters of the United States. Phase II of NPDES requires permit
coverage for stormwater discharges from regulated small municipal separate
storm sewer systems (MS4s) and for small construction activity that results in
the disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre. This federal regulation
went into effect on March 10, 2003. In response to Phase II of NPDES, the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management enacted Rule 13 (327 I.A.C. 15-
13) and revised Rule 5 (327 I.A.C. 15-5).
   (C)   Under these new state and federal regulations, the county was required
to establish a regulatory mechanism for regulating stormwater quality
management. Therefore, the “Hendricks County Drainage Code” was replaced in
2004 with a document that included new requirements for management of
stormwater quality in addition to quantity. The stormwater management ordinance
and its companion Stormwater Technical Standards Manual were further updated in
2016.
   (D)   In December 2021, IDEM finalized two new permits, Municipal Separate
Storm Sewer System (MS4) General Permit (MS4 GP) and Construction Stormwater
General Permit (CSGP), which replaced the previous IDEM’s Rule 13 and Rule 5.
These new permits require the county to update its stormwater management
ordinance to incorporate new requirements contained in the 2021 permits. The
2023 stormwater management ordinance of the county and its companion document,
the 2023 Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, incorporate
the IDEM-required changes and other necessary periodic updates.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.004 FINDINGS.
   The County Board of Commissioners finds that:
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within and
downstream of the county are at times subjected to flooding;
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the region;
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, increased flooding,
increased stream channel erosion, and increased sediment transport and
deposition;
   (D)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site
and deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs;
   (E)   Increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff from future development projects
within the county will, absent reasonable regulation and control, adversely
affect the county’s water bodies and water resources;
   (F)   Pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within the county
will, absent reasonable regulation, monitoring, and enforcement, adversely
affect the county’s water bodies and water resources;
   (G)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, non-point source pollution, and
illicit sources of pollution can be controlled and minimized by the regulation
of stormwater management;
   (H)   Preventing further encroachment into the FEH corridors will minimize
fluvial erosion hazards and property loss from flooding, enhance public safety,
maximize channel stability, and maintain or improve water quality and habitat
function;
   (I)   Adopting the standards, criteria, and procedures contained and
referenced in this chapter and implementing the same will address many of the
deleterious effects of stormwater runoff, illicit discharges, and fluvial
erosion hazards;
   (J)   Adopting this chapter is necessary for the protection of property,
preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare, for the conservation of
our natural resources, and for compliance with state and federal regulations.
   (K)   Adopting this chapter is necessary for the protection of mutual and
private drains.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.005 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the county through the regulation of
stormwater and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system and to
protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources within the county. This chapter establishes methods for managing the
quantity and quality of stormwater entering into the storm drain system in
order to comply with state and federal requirements. The objectives of this
chapter are:
   (A)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by excessive
stormwater runoff.
   (B)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from construction site runoff.
   (C)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from runoff from new development and re-development.
   (D)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the storm drain system.
   (E)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, monitoring,
and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.006 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The County Drainage Board and/or County Surveyor, as well as the County
Clean Water Department, shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions
of this chapter. The County Drainage Board and/or the County Surveyor is
authorized to adopt or update the Stormwater Technical Standards or other
technical specifications, which shall be on file in County Surveyor’s offices
for public inspection. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the authorized
enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the county to qualified
persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of
the county.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE OUTLET. An outlet (as defined in this chapter) that based on an
assessment of the current condition of the downstream system (including known
flooding, designated floodways and floodplains, channel stability, culvert
capacity, water control structures, and dams) or the judgement of the County
Surveyor or the County Drainage Board can accept the increased or more
sustained peak flows or volume of flows entering the outlet from a proposed
development or re-development without being negatively impacted.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tile. For purposes of this rule, the term
does not include land disturbing activities for the construction of
agricultural related facilities, such as barns, buildings to house livestock,
roads associated with infrastructure, agricultural waste lagoons and
facilities, lakes and ponds, wetlands; and other infrastructure.
   BASE FLOW. Stream discharge derived from groundwater sources as
differentiated from surface runoff. Sometimes considered to include flows from
regulated lakes or reservoirs.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Design, construction, and maintenance practices
and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of stormwater
runoff rates and volumes, prevent erosion, and capture pollutants.
   BUFFER STRIP. An existing, variable width strip of vegetated land intended
to protect water quality and habitat.
   CAPACITY (OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY). The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
   CATCH BASIN. A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for the
admission of surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its base a
sediment sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of overflow.
   CHANNEL. A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which periodically
or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting link between
two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to confine the
water.
   COMPLIANCE. The act of correcting a violation or violations within the time
frame specified by the county.
   COMPREHENSIVE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. A comprehensive stormwater program for
effective management of stormwater quantity and quality throughout the
community.
   CONSTRUCTED WETLAND. A manmade shallow pool that creates growing conditions
suitable for wetland vegetation and is designed to maximize pollutant removal.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land disturbing activities associated with the
construction of infrastructure and structures. This term does not include
routine ditch or road maintenance or minor landscaping projects.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
   CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
   CONTOUR. An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting points of
the same elevation.
   CONTOUR LINE. Line on a map which represents a contour or points of equal
elevation.
   CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the project
site or individual lot owner, their agent, or the individual lot operator to
perform services on the project site.
   CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
   CROSS SECTION. A graph or plot of ground elevation across a stream valley or
a portion of it, usually along a line perpendicular to the stream or direction
of flow.
   CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage water
under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
   DECHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE. Chlorinated water that has either sat
idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the MS4
conveyance, or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations (less
than five-hundredths (0.05) milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
   DESIGN STORM. A selected storm event, described in terms of the probability
of occurring once within a given number of years, for which drainage or flood
control improvements are designed and built.
   DETENTION. Managing stormwater runoff by temporary holding and controlled
release.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow of
storm water to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the excess
waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
   DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining of stormwater in storage
facilities, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks, open
spaces or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with the
rate of release regulated by appropriately installed devices.
   DETENTION TIME. The theoretical time required to displace the contents of a
tank or unit at a given rate of discharge (volume divided by rate of
discharge).
   DETRITUS. Dead or decaying organic matter; generally contributed to
stormwater as fallen leaves and sticks or as dead aquatic organisms.
   DEVELOPER. Any person financially responsible for construction activity, or
an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any lots
in a subdivision.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
      (2)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams or channel improvements;
      (3)   Construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (5)   Installing utilities, erection of walls, construction of roads, or
similar projects;
      (6)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
      (7)   Storage of materials; or
      (8)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
buildings.
   DISCHARGE. In the context of water quantity provisions, usually the rate of
water flow, i.e., a volume of fluid passing a point per unit time commonly
expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters per second, gallons per
minute, or millions of gallons per day. In the context of water quality
provisions, the discharge means any addition of liquids or solids to a water
body or a flow conveyance facility.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking, or placing
of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so that the
solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste, may enter the
environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any waters,
including ground waters.
   DITCH. A man-made, open watercourse in or into which excess surface water or
groundwater drained from land, stormwater runoff, or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
   DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
   DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land by
means of ditches or subsurface drains. Also see NATURAL DRAINAGE.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may be
of different sizes for surface runoff, subsurface flow and base flow, but
generally the surface runoff area is considered as the drainage area.
   DRY WELL. A type of infiltration practice that allows stormwater runoff to
flow directly into the ground via a bored or otherwise excavated opening in the
ground surface.
   DURATION. The time period of a rainfall event.
   ENVIRONMENT. The sum total of all the external conditions that may act upon
a living organism or community to influence its development or existence.
   ERODIBILITY INDEX (EI). The soil erodibility index (EI) provides a numerical
expression of the potential for a soil to erode considering the physical and
chemical properties of the soil and the climatic conditions where it is
located. The higher the index, the greater the investment needed to maintain
the sustainability of the soil resource base if intensively cropped. It is
defined to be the maximum of (RxKxLS)/T (from the Universal Soil Loss Equation)
and (CxI)/T (from the Wind Erosion Equation), where R is a measure of rainfall
and runoff, K is a factor of the susceptibility of the soil to water erosion,
LS is a measure of the combined effects of slope length and steepness, C is a
climatic characterization of windspeed and surface soil moisture and I is a
measure of the susceptibility of the soil to wind erosion. ERODIBILITY INDEX
scores equal to or greater than eight are considered highly erodible land.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice, gravity,
or other geological agents. The following terms are used to describe different
types of water erosion:
      (1)   ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal or
geologic erosion, primarily as a result of the activities of man.
      (2)   CHANNEL EROSION. An erosion process whereby the volume and velocity
of flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
      (3)   GULLY EROSION. An erosion process whereby runoff water accumulates
in narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the soil to
considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75 to 100 feet.
      (4)   RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small channels
only several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently disturbed and
exposed soils (see RILL).
      (5)   SPLASH EROSION. The spattering of small soil particles caused by
the impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles may
or may not be subsequently removed by surface runoff.
      (6)   SHEET EROSION. The gradual removal of a fairly uniform layer of
soil from the land surface by runoff water.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion at the source
and then as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being discharged
from or within a project site.
   FILTER STRIP. Usually a long, relatively narrow area (usually 20 to 75 feet
wide) of undisturbed or planted vegetation used near disturbed or impervious
surfaces to filter stormwater pollutants for the protection of watercourses,
reservoirs, or adjacent properties.
   FLOATABLE. Any solid waste that will float on the surface of the water.
   FLOOD (OR FLOOD WATERS). A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel which
have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year flood. Any
normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by water from any
natural source. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the floodway
fringe districts.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain lying outside the floodway,
which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
   FOOTING DRAIN. A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a basement wall
foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater elevation.
   FLUVIAL EROSION HAZARD (FEH) CORRIDOR. Fluvial (riverine) erosion hazard
corridors represent the areas along the streams (including the channel and
immediate overbanks areas) that are believed to be subject to stream movement
or streambank erosion. These corridors have been delineated for most actively
migrating and relatively stationary streams in the state through an Indiana
Silver Jackets initiative. The corridor maps associated with the county streams
are available on the county GIS website. More detailed mapping than that used
as part of the Indiana Silver Jackets erosion hazard mapping program may be
provided by the applicant if it is based on detailed field assessment
acceptable to the County Surveyor.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and semisolid wastes
resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving, or
consumption of food or food materials.
   GASOLINE OUTLET. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility whose
primary function is the resale of fuels. The term applies to facilities that
create 5,000 or more square feet of impervious surfaces, or generate an average
daily traffic count of 100 vehicles per 1,000 square feet of land area.
   GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM. A computer system capable of assembling,
storing, manipulation, and displaying geographically referenced information.
This technology can be used for resource management and development planning.
   GRADE.
      (1)   The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, and the
like, or natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage
the vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance.
      (2)   The finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment, or
bottom of excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the
support of construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit.
      (3)   To finish the surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment,
or bottom of excavation, or other land area to a smooth, even condition.
   GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope or
elevation.
   GRASS. A member of the botanical family Graminae, characterized by blade-
like leaves that originate as a sheath wrapped around the stem.
   GROUNDWATER. Accumulation of underground water, natural or artificial. The
term does not include manmade underground storage or conveyance structures.
   HABITAT. The environment in which the life needs of a plant or animal are
supplied.
   HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND (HEL). Land that has an erodibility index of eight or
more.
   HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE. A numeric United States Geologic Survey code that
corresponds to a watershed area. Each area also has a text description
associated with the numeric code.
   HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
surface of the earth, and underground. A typical hydrologic study is undertaken
to compute flow rates associated with specified flood events.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater except naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or
tree limbs. ILLICIT DISCHARGES include polluted flows from direct and indirect
connections to the MS4 conveyance, illegal dumping, and contaminated runoff.
   IMPAIRED WATERS. Waters that do not or are not expected to meet applicable
water quality standards, as included on IDEM’s CWA Section 303(d) List of
Impaired Waters.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops, which prevent
the infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
   INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
   INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR. A contractor or subcontractor working on an
individual lot.
   INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has financial control of construction
activities for an individual lot.
   INFILTRATION. Passage or movement of water into the soil. Infiltration
practices include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the percolation of
run-off through the soil to groundwater. Examples include infiltration basins
or trenches, dry wells, and porous pavement.
   INLET. An opening into a storm drain system for the entrance of surface
storm water runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land surface, including
removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil, excavating,
filling, transporting and grading.
   LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed under the laws of the state to practice
land surveying.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to a
structure, where the soil meets the foundation around the outside of the
structure (including structural members such as basement walkout, patios,
decks, porches, support posts or piers, and rim of the window well.
   LOWEST FLOOR. Refers to the lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the basement floor;
      (2)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the building;
      (3)   The top of the first floor of buildings constructed on a slab or of
buildings elevated on pilings or constructed on a crawl space with permanent
openings; or
      (4)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters,
by providing a minimum of two opening (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet of enclosed
area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade.
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable only for the parking of
vehicles or building access.
   MANHOLE. Storm drain structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm drain or enclosed structure.
   MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, one-half inch of
rainfall.
   MULCH. A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover, and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM. An MS4 meets all the following
criteria:
      (1)   Is a conveyance or system of conveyances owned by the state,
county, city, town, or other public entity;
      (2)   Discharges to waters of the U.S.;
      (3)   Is designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
      (4)   Is not a combined sewer; and
      (5)   Is not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW).
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A permit developed by the
U.S. EPA through the Clean Water Act. In Indiana, the permitting process has
been delegated to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal stormwater
quality.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE. The flow patterns of stormwater run-off over the land in
its pre-development state.
   NUTRIENT(S).
      (1)   A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction of organisms.
      (2)   In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates) that
promote growth of algae and bacteria.
   OFFENSE. Both a violation and a failure of compliance on a particular
project. If there are multiple violations or multiple failures of compliance on
the same project, each shall be considered a separate offense.
   OPEN DRAIN. A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that conveys
drainage water.
   OPEN SPACE. Any land area devoid of any disturbed or impervious surfaces
created by industrial, commercial, residential, agricultural, or other manmade
activities.
   OUTFALL. The point, location, or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
   OUTLET. A river, creek, lake, pond, altered watercourse or another public
drainage system that receives the final outflow of the drainage system under
consideration (inclusive of proposed improvements or new construction).
   PEAK DISCHARGE (OR PEAK FLOW). The maximum instantaneous flow from a given
storm condition at a specific location.
   PERCOLATION. The movement of water through soil.
   PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform density of 70%
across the disturbed area, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that will ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding, or
other movement.
   PERVIOUS. Allowing movement of water.
   POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance including
but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure, or container from which pollutants are or maybe discharged (P.L. 92-
500, Section 502[14]).
   POROUS PAVEMENT. A type of infiltration practice to improve the quality and
reduce the quantity of storm water run-off via the use of manmade, pervious
pavement which allows run-off to percolate through the pavement and into
underlying soils.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the state to
practice professional engineering.
   PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
   PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit a stormwater permit/
approval application, and required to comply with the terms of this chapter,
including a developer or a person who has financial and operational control of
construction activities, and project plans and specifications, including the
ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications.
   RAIN GARDEN. A vegetative practice used to alter impervious surfaces, such
as roofs, into pervious surfaces for absorption and treatment of rainfall.
   RECEIVING STREAM, RECEIVING CHANNEL, OR RECEIVING WATER. The body of water
into which runoff or effluent is discharged. The term does not include private
drains, unnamed conveyances, retention and detention basins, or constructed
wetlands used as treatment.
   RECHARGE. Replenishment of groundwater reservoirs by infiltration and
transmission from the outcrop of an aquifer or from permeable soils.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Alterations of a property that change a site or building in
such a way that there is disturbances of one acre or more of land. The term
does not include such activities as exterior remodeling.
   REFUELING AREA. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area whose primary
function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The discharge or elevation associated with the 100-year
flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
accepted by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known as the BASE
FLOOD.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY.
   RELEASE RATE. The amount of storm water release from a storm water control
facility per unit of time.
   RESERVOIR. A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other space used
for storage, regulation or control of water. May be either permanent or
temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
   RETENTION. The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving the
development site. May be temporary or permanent.
   RETENTION BASIN. A type of storage practice, that has no positive outlet,
used to retain storm water run-off for an indefinite amount of time. Runoff
from this type of basin is removed only by infiltration through a porous bottom
or by evaporation.
   RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a return period of 100
years has a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one year.
   RIPARIAN ZONE. Of, on, or pertaining to the banks of a stream, river, or
pond.
   RIPARIAN HABITAT. A land area adjacent to a waterbody that supports animal
and plant life associated with that waterbody.
   RUNOFF. That portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on the
land surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance systems.
   RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the storm drain system to the total amount of
rain falling. A coefficient of 0.5 implies that 50% of the rain falling on a
given surface appears as storm water runoff.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water,
gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth’s surface.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other
unconsolidated materials either on the ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
   SENSITIVE WATER. A waterbody in need of priority protection or remediation
base on its: providing habitat for threatened or endangered species, usage as a
public water supply intake, relevant community value, usage for full body
contact recreation, exceptional use classification as found in 327 I.A.C. 2-1-
11(b), outstanding state resource water classification as found in 327 I.A.C.
2-1-2(3) and 327 I.A.C. 2-1.5-19(b).
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land disturbing activity is to be performed.
   SLOPE. Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured as a
numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is commonly
the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance (rise) –
e.g., 2:1. However, the preferred method for designation of slopes is to
clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (length (L) and
Width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also note that according to
international standards (Metric), the slopes are presented as the vertical or
width component shown on the numerator – e.g., 1V:2H. Slope expressions in this
chapter follow the common presentation of slopes – e.g., 2:1 with the metric
presentation shown in parenthesis – e.g., (1V:2H). Slopes can also be expressed
in "percents". Slopes given in percents are always expressed as (100*V/H) –
e.g., a 2:1 (1V:2H) slope is a 50% slope.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A public organization created under
state law as a special-purpose district to develop and carry out a program of
soil, water, and related resource conservation, use, and development within its
boundaries. A subdivision of state government with a local governing body,
established under I.C. 14-32.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, debris, or other discarded material.
   SPILL. The unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping, leakage,
drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of petroleum, hazardous substances,
extremely hazardous substances, or objectionable substances. The term does not
include releases to impervious surfaces when the substance does not migrate off
the surface or penetrate the surface and enter the soil.
   STORM DURATION. The length of time that water may be stored in any
stormwater control facility, computed from the time water first begins to be
stored.
   STORM EVENT. An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within a
given period of time. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour duration storm
event is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected storm water, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a STORM DRAIN.
   STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or man-made, used for
conducting storm water to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A plan developed to minimize the
impact of storm water pollutants resulting from construction activities.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
addresses stormwater runoff quality.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with storm water runoff.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The water derived from rains falling within a tributary
basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
   STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided into lots,
whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements, for the purpose of sale
or lease as part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
   SUBSURFACE DRAIN. A pervious backfield trench, usually containing stone and
perforated pipe, for intercepting groundwater or seepage.
   SURFACE RUNOFF. Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of roofs,
streets, the ground, and the like, and is not absorbed or retained by that
surface but collects and runs off.
   SWALE. An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least
seasonally wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing
water. SWALES conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may provide
some groundwater recharge.
   TEMPORARY STABILIZATION. The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding, or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch, or other non-erosive material applied at a uniform density of
70% across the disturbed area.
   TILE DRAIN. Pipe made of perforated plastic, burned clay, concrete, or
similar material, laid to a designed grade and depth, to collect and carry
excess water from the soil.
   TOPOGRAPHIC MAP. Graphical portrayal of the topographic features of a land
area, showing both the horizontal distances between the features and their
elevations above a given datum.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The representation of a portion of the earth’s surface showing
natural and man-made features of a give locality such as rivers, streams,
ditches, lakes, roads, buildings and most importantly, variations in ground
elevations for the terrain of the area.
   TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of storm water quality, including erosion and sediment control as
may be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification,
experience, or completion of coursework that enable the individual to make
judgments regarding storm water control or treatment and monitoring.
   URBAN DRAIN. A drain defined as “urban drain” in Indiana Drainage Code.
   URBANIZATION. The development, change or improvement of any parcel of land
consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational or public utility purposes.
   VEGETATED SWALE. A type of vegetative practice used to filter stormwater
runoff via a vegetated, shallow-channel conveyance.
   VIOLATION. Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this
chapter or the Technical Standards, the requirements of an approved stormwater
management design plan or permit, and/or the requirements of a recorded
stormwater maintenance agreement may be subject to the enforcement actions
outlined in §§
152.110 through
152.113. Any such action or inaction is deemed to be a public nuisance and may
be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief in addition to, and separate
from, the imposition of any of the enforcement actions described in §§
152.110 through
152.113.
   WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical, and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
   WATER RESOURCES. The supply of groundwater and surface water in a given
area.
   WATERBODY. Any accumulation of water, surface, or underground, natural or
artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water pollution
control facilities.
   WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or man-made
drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERSHED. The region drained by or contributing water to a specific point
that could be along a stream, lake or other stormwater facilities. WATERSHEDS
are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic modeling.
   WATERSHED AREA. All land and water within the confines of a drainage divide.
See also WATERSHED.
   WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.008 ABBREVIATIONS.
Abbreviations Meaning
Abbreviations Meaning
BMP           Best management practice
COE           United States Army Corps of Engineers
CWA           Clean Water Act
EPA           Environmental Protection Agency
GIS           Geographical Information System
IDEM          Indiana Department of Environmental Management
MS4           Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
NRCS          USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service
NPDES         National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
POTW          Publicly-owned treatment works
SWCD          Soil and Water Conservation District
SWPPP         Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
USDA          United States Department of Agriculture
USFWS         United States Fish and Wildlife Service
 
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES, CONNECTIONS
§ 152.020 APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to all discharges, including illegal
dumping, entering the storm drain system under the control of the county,
regardless of whether the discharge originates from developed or undeveloped
lands, and regardless of whether the discharge is generated from an active
construction site or a stabilized site. These discharges include flows from
direct connections to the storm drain system, illegal dumping, and contaminated
runoff.
   (B)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting, and mining
activities is exempted from the requirements of this chapter unless determined
to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or in excess of
standard practices. Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
   (C)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
acceptance has been granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain
system, is also exempted from this subchapter.
   (D)   Finally, any construction project which has had its drainage plan
approved by the county prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be
exempt from all requirements of this chapter that are in excess of the
requirements of ordinances in effect at the time of approval.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.021 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES, CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or illegally dump to a MS4 conveyance,
watercourse, or waterbody, directly or indirectly, any substance other than
stormwater or an exempted discharge. Any person discharging stormwater shall
effectively minimize pollutants from also being discharged with the stormwater,
through the use of best management practices (BMPs).
   (B)   The county is authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution
prevention measures, utilizing BMPs, necessary to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants into the county’s stormwater drainage system.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.022 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES, CONNECTIONS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements in this chapter, stormwater co-mingled
with other discharges either regulated by other NPDES permits or determined by
the County Surveyor, County Drainage Board, or the County Clean Water
Department to not be a significant source of pollutants, including the
following, are exempt from the requirements of this section:
   (A)   Water line and hydrant flushing for maintenance;
   (B)   Irrigation water;
   (C)   Footing, foundation, and crawl space drains (uncontaminated);
   (D)   Excess storm sewer cleaning water not collected by a vacuum truck
(uncontaminated);
   (E)   Fire suppression activities;
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
   (G)   Springs;
   (H)   Residential car washing;
   (I)   Non-commercial car washing by community organizations;
   (J)   External building washdown, without detergents;
   (K)   Dechlorinated/debrominated residential swimming pool discharges;
   (L)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration (as defined at 40 CFR 35.2005
(20));
   (M)   Pavement wash waters provided spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spill material has been removed) and
where detergents are not used;
   (N)   Uncontaminated condensate from air conditioning units, coolers, and
other compressors, and from outside storage of refrigerated gases or liquids.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.023 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS, TOXIC MATERIAL.
   (A)   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any
watercourse, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly
prohibited.
   (B)   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material, including
sewage treatment plant stockpiles, on active construction sites shall include
adequate protection and/or containment so as to prevent any such materials from
entering any temporary or permanent stormwater conveyance or watercourse.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.024 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   (A)   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or
such person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse
located within their property boundaries free of trash, debris, vegetation, and
other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the
flow of water through the watercourse.
   (B)   In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately
owned structures or farm debris within or adjacent to a watercourse and/or
regulated drain easements, so that such structures or farm debris will not
become a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
The Homeowners Association and or private homeowners are required to keep all
curb inlets clear from debris.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.025 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a waterbody any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the County Health Department and County Emergency Management Agency
concerning the discharge. A written report concerning the discharge shall be
filed with the County Surveyor’s Office and IDEM, by the discharger, within
five days. The written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence;
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for additional
information on the matter.
   (B)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section. This requirement does not relieve discharger
from notifying other entities as required by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.026 INSPECTIONS, MONITORING.
   (A)   Storm drainage system. The county has the authority to periodically
inspect that portion of the storm drainage system under the county’s control,
in an effort to detect and eliminate illicit connections and discharges into
the system. This inspection will include a screening of discharges from
outfalls connected to the system in order to determine if prohibited flows are
being conveyed into the storm drainage system. It could also include spot
testing of waters contained in the storm drainage system itself to detect the
introduction of pollutants into the system by means other than a defined
outfall, such as dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
   (B)   Potential polluters. If, as a result of the storm drainage system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the county may
inspect and/or obtain stormwater samples from stormwater runoff facilities of
the subject discharger, to determine compliance with the requirements of this
chapter. Upon request, the discharger shall allow the county’s properly
identified representative to enter upon the premises of the discharger at all
hours necessary for the purposes of such inspection or sampling. The county or
its properly identified representative may place on the discharger’s property
the equipment or devices used for such sampling or inspection. Identified
illicit connections or discharges shall be subject to enforcement action as
described in §§
152.110 through
152.113.
   (C)   New development and re-development. Following the final completion of
construction and the receipt of as-built drawings, the county has the authority
to inspect new development and re-development sites to verify that all on-site
stormwater conveyances and connections to the storm drainage system are in
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT
§ 152.040 APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS.
   The storage and controlled release rate of excess stormwater runoff shall be
required for all new business, commercial and industrial developments,
residential subdivisions, planned development, rural estate subdivisions, and
any redevelopment or other new construction located within the county. The
County Drainage Board and/or County Surveyor, after thorough investigation and
evaluation, may waive the requirement of controlled runoff for minor
subdivisions and parcelization. Additional potential exemptions regarding the
detention requirements are provided under §
152.041(B).
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.041 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Detention policy. It is recognized that most streams and drainage
channels serving the county do not have sufficient capacity to receive and
convey stormwater runoff resulting from continued urbanization. Accordingly,
the storage and controlled release of excess stormwater runoff as well as
compensation for loss of floodplain storage shall be required for all
developments and redevelopments (as defined in §
152.007) located within the county. Release rate requirements, downstream
restriction considerations, acceptable outlet, adjoining property impact
considerations, policy on dams and levees, and compensatory floodplain storage
rates are detailed in the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.
   (B)   Direct release provisions. Due to unknowns regarding the future
development patterns and the associated proposed stormwater quantity and
quality management systems within a watershed, it is the policy of the County
Drainage Board to discourage direct release of runoff from a new development or
redevelopment without providing detention. However, in rare circumstances,
where a comprehensive watershed-wide hydrologic study or watershed plan of a
major stream adopted by the County Drainage Board and/or the County Surveyor
(not a “beat the peak” analysis) substantiates the benefits of (or allows for)
direct release for a proposed development located adjacent to a major stream,
the detention requirements set in this chapter may be waived. Other special
circumstances when such a waiver may be considered by the county include
situations where the design of a regional pond has already taken into account
the provision of direct release in certain areas in the watershed.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.042 CALCULATIONS, DESIGN STANDARDS, SPECIFICATIONS.
   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater facilities shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications outlined in the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. The methods and procedures in the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual
are consistent with the policy stated above.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.043 DRAINAGE EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Regulated drainage easements (RDEs) are stormwater easements and
drainage rights-of-way that are dedicated to the public and trusted to the
County Drainage Board and the County Surveyor for the sole and exclusive
purpose of controlling surface water and/or for the installation, operation,
and maintenance of storm sewers as defined in the county stormwater management
ordinance. These drainage easements are established under authority of the
Indiana Drainage Code and the said Board and County Surveyor may exercise
powers and duties as provided in said code (e.g., annual drainage assessment
per lot). All other storm drainage easements have not been accepted into the
county’s system.
   (B)   There shall be no trees or shrubs planted, nor any structures or
fences erected in any drainage easement, or and utility lines appurtenances
above ground or underground erected, unless otherwise accepted by the County
Drainage Board and/or the County Surveyor. All stormwater systems, including
detention or retention basins, conveyance systems, structures and
appurtenances, located outside of the right-of-way may be incorporated into the
county system at the discretion of County Drainage Board and/or the County
Surveyor. The developer shall petition to incorporate the storm system into the
county system. The stormwater management approval shall not be granted until
such petition is submitted in a form accepted by the County Drainage Board and/
or the County Surveyor.
   (C)   If the County Drainage Board accepts the petition for incorporation
into their system, the following statement shall become part of the restrictive
covenants of every platted subdivision and shown on recorded plat: “channels,
storm sewers, inlets and outlets of detention and retention ponds, and
appurtenances thereto within designated Regulated Drainage Easements (RDEs) are
extensions of the Hendricks County stormwater drainage system and are the
responsibility of County Drainage Board. Specific definitions and requirements
associated with these RDEs and noted storm drainage systems are contained in
Chapter 3, Section 2.4 of the Hendricks County Stormwater Management Ordinance
and in the County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Drainage swales shall
be the responsibility of owner or homeowner association.” This statement is not
required for any project that does not appear before the County Drainage Board.
   (D)   For petition to the county, the following statement shall be put on
each subdivision plat: “A petition addressed to the Hendricks County Drainage
Board has been filed in duplicate with the Drainage Board, requesting that the
subdivision’s storm drainage system and its easements be accepted into the
County’s regulated drainage system. The storm drainage system and its easements
that are accepted into the County’s regulated drainage system are delineated on
the plat as Regulated Drainage Easements (RDEs). All other drainage easements
have not been accepted into the County’s system. All drainage improvements
performed relative to the conveyance of stormwater runoff and the perpetual
maintenance thereof, within the latter easements, shall be the responsibility
of the owner or homeowner association. Within the latter easements, the
Hendricks County Drainage Board assumes no responsibility relative to said
improvements or the maintenance thereof. Specific definitions and requirements
associated with these RDEs and noted storm drainage systems are contained in
Hendricks County Stormwater Management Ordinance and in County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual. This subdivision contains _____ linear feet of open
ditches and _____ linear feet of subsurface drains that will be included in the
County’s Regulated Drainage System.” All plats shall note the lengths of
regulated drain, broken down by the length of open and tile drains, shall also
be shown in tabular form in a prominent position on the plat.
   (E)   Any outlet to, crossing, and/or encroachment of a regulated drainage
easement requires application and acceptance from the County Surveyor’s Office.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.044 PLACEMENT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   No utility company may disturb existing storm drainage facilities
without the consent of the County Surveyor, whose decision may be appealed to
the County Drainage Board.
   (B)   All existing drainage facilities shall have senior rights and damage
to said facilities shall result in penalties as prescribed in §§
152.110 through
152.113.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.045 STRUCTURES NEAR COUNTY REGULATED DRAINS.
   For regulated drains not located in platted subdivisions, no permanent
structure (including fences and utility structures and appurtenances) shall be
erected within 75 feet measured at right angles from:
   (A)   The existing top edge of each bank of a regulated open drain, as
determined by the county; or
   (B)   The center line of a tiled regulated drain, unless otherwise accepted
by the county. The Indiana Drainage Code may be consulted for further details.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.046 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, REPORTING.
   (A)   After the stormwater management approval is granted (by the county)
and the commencement of construction activities, the county has the authority
to conduct inspections of the work being done to ensure full compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and
the terms and conditions of the approval.
   (B)   The county also has the authority to perform long-term, post-
construction inspection of all public or privately owned stormwater quantity
facilities. The inspection will cover physical conditions, available storage
capacity, and the operational condition of key facility elements. Stormwater
quantity facilities shall be maintained in good condition, in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the stormwater management approval, and shall not
be subsequently altered, revised or replaced except in accordance with the
stormwater approval, or in accordance with approved amendments or revisions to
the original stormwater management approval. If deficiencies are found during
the inspection, the owner of the facility will be notified by the county and
will be required to take all necessary measures to correct such deficiencies.
If the owner fails to correct the deficiencies within the allowed time period,
as specified in the county notification, the county will undertake the work and
collect from the owner using lien rights if necessary.
   (C)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities, including the
retention/detention ponds, serving more than one lot or parcel shall be
documented by appropriate covenants to property deeds, unless responsibility is
formally accepted by a public body, and determined before the final stormwater
approval. Stormwater detention/retention basins may be donated to the county or
another unit of government designated by the County Drainage Board for
ownership and permanent maintenance, providing the County Drainage Board or
other governmental unit is willing to accept responsibility.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION; CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 152.060 APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The county will require a stormwater pollution prevention plan
(SWPPP), which includes erosion and sediment control measures and materials
handling procedures, to be submitted as part of the construction plans and
specifications. Any project located within the county which falls under the
jurisdictional authority of the County Drainage Board and/or the County Plan
Commission, and includes clearing, grading, excavation, and other land
disturbing activities resulting in the disturbance of one acre or more of total
land area is subject to the requirements of this chapter. This includes both
new development and re-development. This chapter also applies to disturbances
of less than one acre of land that are part of a larger common plan of
development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately disturb one or
more acres of land, within the area under the jurisdictional authority of the
County Drainage Board. §
152.062 provides guidelines for calculating land disturbance. Projects meeting
the coverage requirements of 327 I.A.C. 15-5 (Rule 5) shall also be in
compliance with 327 I.A.C. 15-5.
   (B)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities associated with normal
farming practices; or
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities.
   (C)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more, the individual lot owner shall complete their own notice of
intent letter, apply for stormwater management approval from the county and
ensure that a sufficient construction and stormwater pollution prevention plan
is completed and submitted in accordance with §§
152.090 through
152.099; regardless of whether the individual lot is part of a larger permitted
project site.
   (E)   An individual lot with land disturbance less than one acre, located
within a larger permitted project site, is considered part of the larger
permitted project site, and the individual lot operator shall comply with the
terms and conditions of the stormwater approval for the larger project site.
The stormwater approval application for the larger project site shall include
typical detailed erosion and sediment control measures for individual lots. In
addition, the builders of these individual lots are required to submit an
individual lot plot plan permit application along with a SWPPP for that
individual lot prior to receiving a building permit. Details of the permitting
process for individual lots and parcels are contained in §§
152.090 through
152.099 and additional requirements for individual lots may be found in the
Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (F)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater management approval application and ensure that a sufficient
construction plan is completed and submitted to the county in accordance with
§§ 152.090 through 152.099. It will be the responsibility of the project site
owner to ensure compliance with this chapter and the technical standards during
the construction activity and implementation of the construction plan, and to
notify the county with a sufficient notice of termination letter upon
completion of the project and stabilization of the site. However, all persons
engaging in construction and land disturbing activities on a permitted project
site shall comply with the requirements of this subchapter and this chapter as
well as the Technical Standards.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.061 POLICY ON STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites is
dependent on a combination of preventing movement of soil from its original
position (erosion control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a
waterbody (sediment control), and proper on-site materials handling. The
developer shall submit to the county, a SWPPP with detailed erosion and
sediment control plans as well as a narrative describing materials handling and
storage, and construction sequencing. This SWPPP shall be site and project
specific. The SWPPP and the project management log shall be retained for at
least three years from the date the project permit is terminated.
   (B)   Detailed requirements for stormwater pollution prevention on
construction sites within the county, which are consistent with IDEM minimum
requirements and apply to all land-disturbing activities, are contained in the
Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.062 CALCULATIONS, DESIGN STANDARDS, SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of
determining applicability of this chapter to the project, the following
guidelines should be used:
      (1)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water, and other utilities) to a land
disturbing project site, shall be considered as a part of the total land
disturbance calculation for the project site, when the activity is under the
control of the project site owner.
      (2)   Strip developments will be considered as one project site and shall
comply with this subchapter unless the total combined disturbance on all
individual lots is less than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development or sale.
      (3)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by the
permit, the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total
area of land disturbance for improvements, such as, roads, utilities, or common
areas, and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined
by the following:
         (a)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
one-half acre or more, one-half acre of land disturbance shall be used as the
expected lot disturbance.
         (b)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
less than one-half acre in size, the total lot shall be calculated as being
disturbed.
         (c)   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of projects
sites, such as industrial and commercial project sites, a minimum of one acre
of land disturbance shall be used as the expected lot disturbance, unless the
lots are less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot shall be
calculated as being disturbed.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall meet
the design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual or the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual. The methods and procedures included in these two references
are in keeping with the above stated policy and meet the requirements of the
IDEM’s CSGP. A copy of the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual may be obtained
online through IDEM.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.063 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, REPORTING.
   (A)   Following the granting of the stormwater management approval by the
county and commencement of construction activities, the county has the
authority to conduct inspections of the site to ensure full compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter, the Technical Standards document, the approved
stormwater pollution prevention plan, the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual,
and the terms and conditions of the approval.
   (B)   A self-monitoring program shall be implemented by the project site
owner to ensure the stormwater pollution prevention plan is working
effectively. A trained individual, acceptable to the county, shall perform a
written evaluation of the project site by the end of the next business day
following each measurable storm event. If there are no measurable storm events
within a given week, the site should be monitored at least once in that week.
Weekly inspections by the trained individual shall continue until the entire
site has been stabilized and a “verified” copy of the notice of termination has
been issued. The trained individual should look at the maintenance of existing
stormwater pollution prevention measures, including erosion and sediment
control measures, drainage structures, and construction materials storage/
containment facilities, to ensure they are functioning properly. The trained
individual should also identify additional measures, beyond those originally
identified in the stormwater pollution prevention plan, necessary to remain in
compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations.
   (C)   The resulting evaluation reports shall include the name of the
individual performing the evaluation, the date of the evaluation, problems
identified at the project site, and details of maintenance, additional
measures, and corrective actions recommended and completed.
   (D)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall serve as a guideline
for stormwater quality, but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for
implementation of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project
site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this subchapter,
all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater runoff.
Recommendations by the trained individual for modified stormwater quality
measures should be implemented.
   (E)   Although self-monitoring reports do not need to be submitted to the
county, the county has the right to request complete records of maintenance and
monitoring activities involving stormwater pollution prevention measures. All
evaluation reports for the project site shall be made available to the county,
in an organized fashion, within 48 hours upon request.
   (F)   A project management log shall be maintained at the project site or in
the possession of on-site individuals associated with the management and
operations of the construction activities. Details regarding requirements
related to the project management log are contained in the Hendricks County
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT; POST-CONSTRUCTION
§ 152.075 APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the requirements of §§
152.060 through
152.063, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, which is to be submitted to
the county as part of the stormwater management permit application, shall also
include post-construction stormwater quality measures. These measures are
incorporated as a permanent feature into the site plan and are left in place
following completion of construction activities to continuously treat
stormwater runoff from the stabilized site.
      (2)   Any project located within the county which falls under the
jurisdictional authority of the county and includes clearing, grading,
excavation, and other land disturbing activities resulting in the disturbance
of one acre or more of total land area is subject to the requirements of this
subchapter. This includes both new development and re-development, and
disturbances of less than one acre of land that are part of a larger common
plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately disturb
one or more acres of land, within the area under the jurisdictional authority
of the county.
      (3)   In addition, regardless of the amount of disturbance, the county
reserves the right to require pre-treatment BMPs for proposed hot spot
developments in accordance with provisions contained in the Hendricks County
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (B)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities; or
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities; or
      (3)   Construction activities associated with a single family residential
dwelling disturbing less than five acres, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale; or
      (4)   Single family residential developments consisting of four or less
lots; or
      (5)   A single-family residential strip development where the developer
offers for sale or lease without land improvements and the project is not part
of a larger common plan of development of sale; or
      (6)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project.
   (C)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater management approval application and ensure that a sufficient
construction plan is completed and submitted to the county in accordance with
§§
152.090 through
152.099 and the Technical Standards. It will be the responsibility of the
project site owner to ensure proper construction and installation of all
stormwater BMPs in compliance with this chapter and with the stormwater
management approval, and to notify the county with a notice of termination
letter upon completion of the project and stabilization of the site. However,
all eventual property owners of stormwater quality facilities meeting the
applicability requirements shall comply with the requirements of this
subchapter and this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.076 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that developed areas, as compared to undeveloped
areas, generally have increased imperviousness, decreased infiltration rates,
increased runoff rates, increased potential for streambank erosion downstream,
and increased concentrations of pollutants such as fertilizers, herbicides,
greases, oil, salts and other pollutants. As new development and re-development
continues in the county, measures shall be taken to intercept and filter
pollutants from stormwater runoff prior to reaching regional creeks, streams,
and rivers. Through the use of best management practices (BMP) to treat the
water quality volume (WQv) or the water quality flow (Qwq), stormwater runoff
will be filtered and harmful amounts of sediment, nutrients, and contaminants
will be removed. The county has adopted a policy that the control of stormwater
quality will be based on the management of total suspended solids (TSS).
   (B)   It is also recognized that another major source of pollution in many
state streams, including those within the corporate boundaries of the county,
is the streambank erosion associated with urbanizing watersheds. Stream
channels develop their shape in response to the volume and rate of runoff that
they receive from their contributing watersheds. Research has shown that in
hydrologically stable watersheds, the stream flow responsible for most of the
shaping of the channel (called the bankfull flow) occurs between every one to
two years. When land is developed, the volume and rate of runoff from that land
increases for these comparatively small flooding events that are not normally
addressed by the detention practices and the stream channel will adapt by
changing its shape. As the stream channel works to reach a new stable shape,
excess erosion occurs. As new development and re-development continues within
the corporate boundaries of the county, measures shall be taken to minimize the
impact of such development or re-development on streambank erosion. Using
appropriate best management practices (BMPs) to retain and/or detain and slowly
release the channel protection volume (CPv), the volume and rate of runoff for
channel forming flows will be reduced in an attempt to minimize increased
streambank erosion in the receiving streams and channels.
   (C)   The project site owner shall submit to the county, a storm water
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) that would show placement of appropriate BMP
(s) from a pre-approved list of BMPs specified in the Hendricks County
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The SWPPP submittal shall include an
operation and maintenance manual for all post-construction BMP(s) included in
the project and a notarized maintenance agreement, consistent with the sample
agreement provided in the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual, providing for the long-term maintenance of those BMPs, both of which
shall be recorded with the deed for the property on which the project is
located. The noted BMPs shall be designed, constructed, and maintained
according to guidelines provided or referenced in the Hendricks County
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Practices other than those specified in
the pre-approved list may be utilized. However, the burden of proof as to
whether the performance and ease of maintenance of such practices will be
according to guidelines provided in the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual, would be placed with the applicant. Details regarding the
procedures and criteria for consideration of acceptance of such BMPs are
provided in the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (D)   Requirements of this chapter and the Technical Standards with regard
to post-construction stormwater quality management can be satisfied through a
variety of methods broadly categorized under two general approaches:
      (1)   Conventional approach.
      (2)   Low impact development (LID) approach.
   (E)   The site developer and designer are encouraged to review the LID
discussion in the technical standards prior to site design.
   (F)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas shall install appropriate
practices (as noted under “hot spots” provision in the technical standards) to
reduce lead, copper, zinc, and hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff. These
requirements will apply to all new facilities and existing facilities that
replace their tanks, regardless of the size of the facility.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.077 CALCULATIONS, DESIGN STANDARDS, SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines discussed
in §
152.062.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater quality management measures, or BMPs shall meet the design
criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana Stormwater
Quality Manual or the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
The methods and procedures included in these two references are in keeping with
the above stated policy and meet the requirements of MS4 GP.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.078 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All stormwater quality management systems, including detention or retention
basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line filters, infiltration systems,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances located outside of the right-
of-way shall be incorporated into permanent easements. For developments which
fall under the jurisdictional authority of the County Drainage Board, the
developer may petition to establish the noted system as a portion of regulated
drainage system pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-27-54, and the drainage
plan shall not be accepted until such petition is submitted in a form accepted
by the County Surveyor and the County Drainage Board. For the purposes of
access, monitoring, inspection, and general maintenance activities, the
petition should include a 30-foot wide drainage easement beyond the actual
footprint of the stormwater quality management facility as well as a 30-foot
wide access easement from a public right-of-way to each BMP.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.079 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, REPORTING.
   (A)   After stormwater management approval and the commencement of
construction activities, the county has the authority to conduct inspections of
the work being done to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and
conditions of the approval.
   (B)   Stormwater quality facilities shall be maintained in good condition,
in accordance with the operation and maintenance procedures and schedules
listed in the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual or the Hendricks County
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and/or the terms and conditions of the
approved stormwater permit, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised, or
replaced except in accordance with the stormwater management approval, or in
accordance with approved amendments to the original approval.
   (C)   Following construction completion, maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities may be the long-term responsibility of the County Drainage Board.
Stormwater detention/retention basins may be donated to the county or another
unit of government designated by the County Drainage Board for ownership and
permanent maintenance, providing the County Drainage Board or other
governmental unit is willing to accept responsibility.
   (D)   If the county accepts the petition for incorporation of post-
construction stormwater quality BMPs into their system, the following statement
shall become part of the restrictive covenants of every platted subdivision and
shown on the recorded plat: “The post-construction stormwater quality BMPs
listed in the following table [provide a table below this statement] and
located within designated Regulated Drainage Easements (RDEs) are extensions of
Hendricks County’s stormwater drainage system and are the responsibility of the
Hendricks County Drainage Board. Specific definitions and requirements
associated with these RDEs and BMPs are contained in Chapter 3, Section 2.4 and
Chapter 5 of the Hendricks County Stormwater Management Ordinance and in the
Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Every lot owner in the
subdivision is responsible for the maintenance costs associated with the noted
post-construction stormwater quality BMPs.”
   (E)   The following statement shall be put on each subdivision plat: “A
petition addressed to the Hendricks County Drainage Board has been filed with
the County Surveyor, requesting that the subdivision’s post-construction
stormwater quality BMPs, listed in the following table [provide a table below
this statement], and their associated easements be accepted into the County’s
regulated drainage system. The noted post-construction stormwater quality BMPs
and their easements that are accepted into the County’s regulated drainage
system are delineated on the plat as Regulated Drainage Easements (RDEs). All
other drainage easements have not been accepted into the County’s system.
Within the latter easements, the Hendricks County Drainage Board assumes no
responsibility relative to said improvements or the maintenance thereof.
Specific definitions and requirements associated with these RDEs and BMPs are
contained in Chapter 3, Section 2.4 and Chapter 5 of the Hendricks County
Stormwater Management Ordinance and in the Hendricks County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual. This subdivision contains the following post-
construction stormwater BMPs that will be included in the County’s Regulated
Drainage System.” A table listing the name and location of every post-
construction stormwater quality BMPs being accepted into the county regulated
drainage system shall also be included immediately following the above
statement on the recorded plat.
   (F)   All stormwater quality facilities will be inspected by representatives
of the project site owner until the project is complete and a notice of
termination has been approved. Inspection frequency shall follow specifications
included in the Operation and Maintenance Manual submitted as part of the
stormwater management approval application. Optional inspection checklists for
some of the more common BMPs can be found in the Technical Standards. Following
project completion, the owner is responsible for inspection and maintenance of
the stormwater quality facilities. The county has the authority to conduct
inspections following project completion to ensure full compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. Noted deficiencies and recommended corrective
action will be included in an inspection report. If deficiencies are found
during the inspection, the owner of the stormwater quality facility will be
notified by the county and will be required to take all necessary measures to
correct such deficiencies. If the owner fails to correct the deficiencies
within the allowed time period, as specified in the county notification, the
county will undertake the work and collect from the owner using lien rights if
necessary.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS, PROCEDURES
§ 152.090 PRIMARY DRAINAGE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   In order to establish that an adequate drainage outlet(s) exists for a
proposed subdivision seeking a primary plat approval from the County Drainage
Board and the County Plan Commission, or for certain commercial developments as
determined by the County Surveyor, a developer shall first apply for a
preliminary drainage approval from the county. As part of the noted primary
drainage approval application, a developer shall submit conceptual drainage
plans for review by the County Surveyor prior to the Drainage Board meeting and
Plan Commission hearing. Note that any preliminary drainage approval by the
county as a result of such a review is based on preliminary data and shall not
be construed as a final drainage approval or considered binding on either
party. Once a development receives primary drainage approval from the County
Drainage Board, all subsequent processing for the necessary stormwater
approvals will remain with the County Drainage Board, including all individual
sections or phases of the development.
   (B)   The following is a general listing of minimum data requirements for
the review of conceptual drainage plans, all of which shall be on a CD or other
acceptable media acceptable to the county.
      (1)   Letter of intent for obtaining any needed consents, off-site
easements, or right-of-way.
      (2)   Project narrative and supporting documents.
         (a)   Description of the nature and purpose of the project.
         (b)   General description of the existing and proposed drainage
systems in narrative form.
         (c)   General description of regulated drains, farm drains, inlets and
outfalls in narrative form, if any of record.
         (d)   General description of all existing storm, sanitary, combined
sewer, and septic tank systems and outfalls in narrative form.
         (e)   Two copies of drainage calculations showing existing and
proposed discharges for various storm events.
         (f)   Vicinity map depicting the project site location in relation to
recognizable local landmarks, towns, and major roads, such as a USGS
topographic quadrangle map or county or municipal road map.
         (g)   A map showing the location, name, and normal water level of all
wetlands, lakes, ponds, and water courses on or adjacent to the project site.
         (h)   A map showing 100-year floodplains, floodway fringes, and
floodways. Please note if none exists.
         (i)   A map showing watershed boundaries with USGS contours or best
information possible.
         (j)   A map showing existing watercourse or regulated drains.
         (k)   Proof that the project has an adequate outlet as determined by
the County Surveyor.
      (3)   Conceptual plans. One complete set of conceptual plans showing
general project layout, including existing and proposed drainage systems and
proposed outlets. The plan sets should be 24 inches by 36 inches in size.
   (C)   All the required information shall be submitted in electronic format
compatible with the county GIS. All mapping and survey data shall be in State
Plane Coordinates with the following metadata requirements.
      (1)   Indiana west.
      (2)   US Survey feet.
      (3)   GNS 80 Ellipsoid.
      (4)   NAVD 88.
      (5)   GEOID 09.
      (6)   NAD 83.
      (7)   CORS 96.
      (8)   EPOCH 2002 or later.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.091 PERMITTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   This section applies to all development or re-development of land,
under the jurisdictional authority of the county, which results in land
disturbance of one acre or more. Individual lots with land disturbance less
than one acre that are developed within a larger permitted project site should
refer to §
152.094 for plan review requirements and procedures.
   (B)   There are two scenarios for approval or permit application and
processing procedures. One process is followed for projects located within
unincorporated areas of the county; the other process is for projects that
impact the county regulated drains but are located within the jurisdictional
areas of the incorporated towns and cities within the county.
      (1)   Within unincorporated areas of the county.
         (a)   For projects located within unincorporated areas of the county,
the project site owner shall submit an application for a stormwater management
approval to the County Drainage Board, the County Surveyor, and the Clean Water
Department. The application will include a completed application form,
construction plan sheets, stormwater drainage technical report, a stormwater
pollution prevention plan, and any other necessary support information.
Specific information to be included in the application can be found in §
152.093 below. Two copies of each application shall be submitted to the County
Drainage Board. Additionally, a digital copy of the construction plans is
required in a format approved by the County Drainage Board.
         (b)   If the project shall go through a scheduled meeting, all
information shall be submitted at least 30 days prior to the regularly
scheduled meeting. The County Drainage Board shall furnish the applicant a
written list of objections to the plans and supporting data submitted by the
applicant. A resubmittal from the applicant addressing the list of objections
shall be provided to the County Drainage Board at least ten days prior to the
scheduled meeting. Plans in substantial compliance with the requirements of
this chapter and the Technical Standards that need to go through a scheduled
meeting shall be placed on the agenda with a recommendation for conditional
approval or construction approval. If the County Drainage Board approves the
project, the plans will be signed by the County Surveyor’s Office after
construction approval has been granted.
         (c)   If the project does not require Drainage Board approval at a
scheduled meeting, the County Surveyor’s Office will provide written comments
and sign the plans after construction approval has been granted. Once the plans
have been signed, and after a pre-construction meeting has been held,
construction can commence.
         (d)   The project site owner shall notify the County Surveyor’s Office
and the Clean Water Department and IDEM before beginning construction.
Notification to the County Surveyor and the Clean Water Department shall be in
the form of an email while notification to IDEM shall be in the form of an
online IDEM NOI submittal. Once a permit has been issued and the pending
construction notifications submitted to the County Surveyor and the Clean Water
Department and IDEM before the beginning of construction, construction may
commence 48 hours after the NOI is submitted to IDEM. Once construction starts,
the project owner shall monitor construction activities and inspect all
stormwater pollution prevention measures in compliance with this chapter and
the terms and conditions of the stormwater management approval. Upon completion
of construction activities, a certification of completion and compliance and
as-built plans shall be submitted to the County Surveyor’s Office in hardcopy
and in an electronic format compatible with the County Geographic Information
System (GIS). Once the construction site has been stabilized and all temporary
erosion and sediment control measures have been removed, a notification shall
be sent to the County Clean Water Department, requesting a termination
inspection. The County Clean Water Department, or representative, shall inspect
the construction site to that the completed project is fully stabilized and
meets the requirements of the county stormwater ordinance and its technical
standards as well as the terms and conditions of the approval. Once the
applicant receives a signed copy of the termination inspection checklist
confirming compliance, they shall forward a copy to IDEM along with the
required IDEM NOT form. Permits issued under this scenario will expire five
years from the date of issuance. If construction is not completed within five
years, an updated permit application shall be submitted to County Surveyor and
an updated NOI shall be resubmitted to IDEM at least 90 days prior to
expiration. Figure 1 below is a flowchart summarizing the plan review/permit
approval process and can be found at the end of this subchapter.
      (2)   Within other jurisdictional areas. For projects located within
other jurisdictional areas, but impacting county regulated drains, the project
site owner shall submit one copy of the construction plans (which include
drainage plans), erosion and sediment control plans, and a stormwater drainage
technical report to the County Drainage Board. Additionally, a digital copy of
the construction plans is required in a format approved by the County Surveyor.
If the project must go through a scheduled meeting, all information shall be
submitted at least 30 days prior to its regularly scheduled meeting. The County
Drainage Board shall furnish the applicant a written list of objections to the
plans and supporting data submitted by the applicant. This list of objections,
if any, will be related only to the project’s impact on county regulated
drains. A resubmittal from the applicant addressing the list of objections
shall be provided to the County Surveyor at least ten days prior to the
scheduled meeting. Plans in substantial compliance with the requirements of
this chapter and the Technical Standards that need to go through a scheduled
meeting shall be placed on the agenda with a recommendation for conditional
approval or construction approval. If the County Drainage Board approves the
project, the applicant shall satisfactorily address all issues listed in the
conditional approval to obtain construction approval. This approval does not
alleviate the applicant’s responsibility to comply with chapter, policy, or
resolution requirements of the local jurisdictional entity.
Figure 1: Permit Approval Process
(Within Unincorporated Areas)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d388becf48597be7a7bb8b712925cf87a6851671/
IMAGES/0-0-0-966.png]
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.092 SWPPP REVIEW TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 13-18-27, an MS4-designated entity or other review
authority such as SWCD shall make a preliminary determination as to whether the
construction plan associated with SWPPP is substantially complete before the
end of the tenth working day (for sites with less than five acres of land
disturbance) after the day on which the SWPPP is submitted to the review
authority or the fourteenth working day (for sites with five acres or larger of
land disturbance) after the day on which the SWPPP is submitted to the review
authority.
   (B)   Note that the above time limits only apply to the SWPPP portion of the
overall stormwater approval submittal and does not affect any official or non-
official approval review timelines set by the County Drainage Board and/or the
Surveyor for other aspects of the stormwater approval application.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.093 SECONDARY STORMWATER APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or part of the
informational requirements listed below. Exemptions are detailed in §§
152.020,
152.040,
152.060, and
152.075. If a project or activity is exempt from any or all requirements of
this chapter, an application should be filed listing the exemption criteria
met, in lieu of the information requirements listed below. This level of
detailed information is not required from individual lots, disturbing less than
one acre of land, developed within a larger permitted project site. Review and
acceptance of such lots is covered under §
152.093.
   (B)   The different elements of a permit/approval submittal for a secondary
stormwater plan approval include an application form, proof of publication of a
public notice, construction plans, a stormwater drainage technical report, a
stormwater pollution prevention plan for active construction sites, a post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan, and any other necessary
supporting information. All plans, reports, calculations, and narratives shall
be signed and sealed by a professional engineer or a licensed surveyor,
registered in the State of Indiana who also meets the definition of a trained
individual found in §
152.007.
      (1)   Application form. As part of the county stormwater management
permit application package, the application form provided in the Technical
Standards Manual shall be completed by the applicant and provided along with
other required supporting material.
      (2)   Construction plans. Construction plan sheets and an accompanying
narrative report shall describe and depict the existing and proposed
conditions. Note that in order to gain an understanding of and to evaluate the
relationship between the proposed improvements for a specific project section/
phase and the proposed improvements for an overall multi-section (phased)
project, the detailed information requested herein for the first section/phase
being permitted shall be accompanied by an overall project plan that includes
the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of all detention/retention
facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet conditions. Construction
plans need to include items listed in the required information list provided in
the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (3)   Stormwater drainage technical report. A written stormwater drainage
technical report shall contain a discussion of the steps taken in the design of
the stormwater drainage system. Note that in order to gain an understanding of
and to evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a
specific project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall
multi-section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for
the first section/phase being permitted shall be accompanied by an overall
project plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of
all detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. The technical report needs to include items listed in the required
information list provided in the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.
      (4)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan for construction sites. For
sites with total disturbance of land in an amount that would be governed by
this chapter, a stormwater pollution prevention plan associated with
construction activities shall be designed to, at least, meet the requirements
of this chapter. For land disturbances totaling less than one acre but greater
than an amount that would be governed by this chapter, appropriate erosion and
sediment control measures that are consistent with the Hendricks County
Technical Standards shall be designed and shown on the plans. The SWPPP shall
include items listed in the required information list provided in the Hendricks
County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (5)   Post-construction storm water pollution prevention plan. For sites
with total disturbance of land in an amount that would be governed by this
chapter, a post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan shall be
designed to, at least, meet the requirements of this chapter and shall include
the information provided in the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. The post-construction storm water pollution prevention plan shall
include items listed in the required information list provided in the Hendricks
County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (6)   Operation and maintenance manual. An operations and maintenance
(O&M) manual for all private infrastructure, including but not limited to
pipes, ponds, ditches, and BMPs (when required), shall be submitted for the
final plan approval and permit process. The detailed requirements for O&M
manual are provided in the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.
      (7)   Maintenance agreement. A formal BMP maintenance agreement will need
to be prepared and notarized consistent with the sample agreement provided in
the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, providing for the
long-term maintenance of those BMPs. This maintenance agreement shall be
recorded with the deed for the property on which the project is located.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.094 REVIEW OF INDIVIDUAL LOTS, PARCELS.
   (A)   (1)   For individual lots disturbing less than one acre, developed
within a larger permitted project, or larger than one acre individual parcels
that are not part of a larger permitted project, a formal review and issuance
of an individual lot plot plan clean water permit will be required before a
building permit can be issued. If part of a larger permitted project, all
stormwater management measures necessary to comply with this chapter shall be
implemented in accordance with permitted plan for the larger project. All
individual lot plot plans shall also receive the County Surveyor’s approval
based on, but not limited to the following criteria:
         (a)   One-foot contours and how they were derived.
         (b)   All easements shown and labeled correctly.
         (c)   Sump pumps labeled near where it will be during construction. If
no sump pump is being installed, then it will need to be annotated on the plan
as such.
         (d)   Sub-surface drains (SSD) labeled (including the sump pump
outlets).
         (e)   Sump pump outlets (connection or day lighted to open ditch or
surface outlet) shall be shown.
         (f)   Perimeter drain for septic system, if required, shall be shown.
         (g)   Outlet for all perimeter drains with proper outlet protection.
         (h)   All invert elevations of pipe outlets shall be labeled.
         (i)   Swales annotated with arrows showing the direction of surface
flow.
         (j)   First floor elevations (FFE or slab height) shall be two feet or
greater above the emergency over-flow at the house.
         (k)   First floor elevations (FFE or slab height) shall be no greater
than two feet higher, or lower, than any adjoining house elevation in a platted
subdivision unless the proposed house is located in a subdivision and has been
approved to be greater than two feet higher than an adjoining lot at the
approval process of said subdivision plat.
      (2)   Note. Every site is unique and may require information and criteria
specific to the site. The County Surveyor has the authority to modify, add to
or amend any of these requirements based on the individual site of the proposed
plot plan.
   (B)   The following information shall be submitted to the county for review
and acceptance, by the individual lot operator, whether owning the property or
acting as the agent of the property owner, as part of a request for review and
issuance of an individual lot plot plan clean water permit that shall be
obtained prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      (1)   The individual lot operator shall complete an individual lot clean
water permit request and pay the applicable fee.
      (2)   A certified site layout for the subject lot and all adjacent lots
showing elevation contours and its source, building pad location, dimensions,
elevations, proposed sump pump connections (not to road sub-drains), and the
drainage patterns and swales (including side yard swales).
      (3)   Erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes the
following measures:
         (a)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access.
         (b)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance.
         (c)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot.
         (d)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment shall be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes and rules.
         (e)   Implementation of concrete or cementitious wash water practices
that securely contain and allow for the proper disposal of concrete or
cementitious wash water.
         (f)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator shall be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization.
         (g)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
      (4)   Name, address, telephone number, and list of qualifications of the
trained individual in charge of the mandatory stormwater pollution prevention
self-monitoring program for the project site.
   (C)   The individual lot operator is responsible for installation and
maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized. Additional details are provided in the Hendricks County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.095 CHANGES TO PLANS.
   Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and specifications after
approval of the applicable stormwater management approval/permit shall be filed
with, and accepted by, the county prior to the land development involving the
change. Copies of the changes, if accepted, shall be attached to the original
plans and specifications.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.096 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Fee amount. As a condition of the submittal and the review of
development plans by the county, the applicant shall agree to pay the county
the applicable fee, as set by the County Drainage Board with respect to the
review of all drainage submittals, preliminary plans, final plans, construction
plans and accompanying information and data, as well as pre-paid inspection
fees.
   (B)   Time of payment.
      (1)   After the meeting at which the county is scheduled to consider
acceptance of the applicant’s final stormwater management plan, the county will
furnish a written statement to the applicant specifying the total amount due
the county in connection with the review of the applicant’s submittals, plans
and accompanying information and data, including the amount required to be paid
by applicant for review and pre-paid inspection fees.
      (2)   As a condition of acceptance of final drainage plans by the county,
applicant shall pay to the county the sum set forth in said statement. The
county may issue such a billing statement before the project advances to the
final acceptance stage, and such payment is due by applicant upon receipt of
said billing statement regardless of whether the project is advanced to the
final acceptance stage.
      (3)   The county shall have the right to not accept the drainage
improvements or to not accept the advancement of any project for which the
applicable fees have not been paid.
   (C)   Method of payment.
      (1)   Fees shall be paid by one of the following methods:
         (a)   Certified check.
         (b)   Cashier’s check.
         (c)   Money order.
         (d)   Electronic payment (if applicable).
      (2)   All checks shall be made payable to the: Hendricks County Drainage
Board: 355 S. Washington Street, Suite 214, Danville, Indiana 46122.
   (D)   Refund of payment. Fees are refundable only if the county determines
that compliance by the development to this chapter is not necessary.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.097 REQUIRED ASSURANCES.
   As a condition of approval and issuance of the approval/permit, the county
shall require the applicant to provide assurance in form of an irrevocable
letter of credit or a bond when the stormwater management plan has been
accepted, all applicable fees paid, and before construction begins. Said
assurance will guarantee a good faith execution of the stormwater drainage
plan, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, the stormwater quality
management plan, and any approval/permit conditions. The assurance shall be for
an amount equal to 110% of the total costs of all stormwater management
measures for the entire project. The above mentioned costs shall be based on an
estimate as prepared by a registered engineer or land surveyor. Said costs
shall be for the installation and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of erosion
control measures and the construction and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of
storm drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities, and stormwater
quality BMPs, as regulated under this chapter, until the construction is
completed, site is stabilized, and as-built plans are accepted by the county.
Assurances shall be for a minimum of $5,000. Local governmental jurisdictions
may require additional performance and/or maintenance assurances. The intent of
this assurance is not only to complete the installation of storm drain
infrastructure for the project, but also to assure that adequate stormwater
pollution prevention measures are properly installed and maintained. If
adequate assurances are set aside by the project site owner for the overall
project, proof of total assurance can be submitted in place of an individual
stormwater assurance.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.098 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVALS, PERMITS.
   (A)   In granting a stormwater management approval, the county may impose
such terms and conditions as are reasonably necessary to meet the purposes of
this chapter. The project site owner shall ensure compliance with such terms
and conditions. Non-compliance with the terms and conditions of approvals will
be subject to enforcement as described in §§
152.110 through
152.113.
   (B)   The project site owner shall inform all general contractors,
construction management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility
contractors, and the contractors that have primary oversight on individual
building lots of the terms and conditions of the stormwater management
approval/permit and the schedule for proposed implementation.
   (C)   In the event that a project site is determined to impact or discharge
to a sensitive area or is located in an impact drainage area, the county may
require more stringent stormwater quantity and quality measures than detailed
in this chapter or in the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual.
      (1)   Determination of sensitive areas. Sensitive areas include highly
erodible soils, wetlands, threatened or endangered species habitat, outstanding
waters, impaired waters, recreational waters, and surface drinking water
sources. A listing of highly erodible soils, outstanding water, impaired water,
recreation water, and surface drinking water sources can be found in the County
Storm Water Quality Management Plan (SWQMP) - Part B, dated November 2004 and
its updates. If wetlands are suspected on a site, wetland delineation should be
completed by the applicant in accordance with the methodology established by
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE) and the wetland addressed in accordance
to the requirements of §§
152.090 through
152.099. The presence of threatened or endangered species habitat will be
evaluated by the County Surveyor during the approval/permit review process.
Special terms and conditions for development determined to impact or discharge
to any sensitive area shall be included in the stormwater management approval.
      (2)   Determination of impact drainage areas.
         (a)   The County Drainage Board is authorized, but is not required, to
classify certain geographical areas as impact drainage areas. In determining
impact drainage areas, the County Drainage Board shall consider such factors as
topography, soil type, capacity of existing drains, and distance from adequate
drainage facility. The following areas shall be designated as impact drainage
areas, unless good reason for not including them is presented to the County
Drainage Board.
            1.   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the most updated
county code dealing with floodplain regulation and/or by the best available
data through IDNR.
            2.   Land within a Fluvial Erosion Hazard (FEH) corridor of the
county streams as shown on the FEH maps created by the Indiana Silver Jackets
Fluvial Erosion Hazard Program or any updates, currently hosted on the county
GIS website.
            3.   Land within 75 feet of each bank of any ditch within the
county’s regulated drainage system.
            4.   Land within 75 feet of the centerline of any drain tile or
enclosed conduit within the county’s regulated drainage system.
            5.   Land within the expected breach inundation zone of an existing
or proposed new dam, and areas protected from flooding by a levee.
         (b)   Land that does not have an adequate outlet, taking into
consideration the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an
impact drainage area by the County Drainage Board. Specific requirements for
development within impact drainage areas are contained in Hendricks County
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Additional special terms and conditions
for development within any impact drainage area shall be included in the
stormwater management approval.
      (3)   Designated drainage areas served by regional facilities. The County
Drainage Board and/or County Surveyor is authorized, but is not required, to
classify certain geographical areas as designated drainage areas that are or
will be served by regional facilities, such as a regional pond. In such cases,
an infrastructure development fee (IDF) rate may be established for the
designated drainage area. The basis for determining such a fee for a proposed
development or re-development within a designated drainage area will be as
detailed in the Hendricks County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.099 CERTIFICATION OF AS-BUILT PLANS.
   (A)   After completion of construction of the project and before final
project acceptance, a professionally prepared and certified “as-built” set of
plans shall be submitted to the County Surveyor for review. Additionally, a
digital copy of the “as-built” plans is required in a format accepted by the
County Surveyor that shall meet metadata requirements for as-built plans. These
plans shall include all pertinent data relevant to the completed storm drainage
system and stormwater management facilities, and shall include:
      (1)   Pipe size and pipe material.
      (2)   Invert elevations.
      (3)   Top rim elevations.
      (4)   Elevation of the emergency overflow (spillway) for ponds.
      (5)   Pipe structure lengths.
      (6)   BMP types, dimensions, and boundaries/easements.
      (7)   “As-planted” plans for BMPs, as applicable.
      (8)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume.
      (9)   Data and calculations showing BMP treatment capacity.
      (10)   Certified statement on plans stating the completed storm drainage
system and stormwater management facilities substantially comply with
construction plans and the stormwater management approval by the County
Drainage Board. (See certificate in Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.)
   (B)   In addition to the digital copy of as-built plans, digital copies of
all reports and plans noted in §§
152.093,
152.094 shall be submitted in their final accepted forms to the County
Surveyor’s Office so that they can be electronically filed for any future
reference.
   (C)   If a maintenance bond and a performance bond is required by the County
Drainage Board or the County Surveyor, then the property owner, developer, or
contractor shall be required to file a five-year maintenance bond or other
acceptable guarantee with the county, prior to final project acceptance, in an
amount not to exceed 25% of the cost of the stormwater drainage system located
outside the public road right-of-ways, and in a form satisfactory to the County
Drainage Board’s attorney in order to assure that such stormwater system
installation was done according to standards of good workmanship, that the
materials used in the construction and installation were of good quality and
construction, that such project was done in accordance with the accepted plans
and this chapter, and that any off-site drainage problems that may arise,
whether upstream or downstream of such project, will be corrected if such
drainage problems are determined by the county to have been caused by the
development of such project. The bond or other acceptable guarantee shall be in
effect for a period of five years after the date of the final project
acceptance by the county.
   (D)   To verify that all regulated drain tiles are functioning properly,
visual recordings (via closed circuit television) of such tile drains shall be
required, once following the completion of installation (including the
installation of all utility mains) and the second time before release of
maintenance bond. These visual recordings will be scheduled by the County
Surveyor and paid for by the developer. Notices shall be provided to the county
within 72 hours following the completion of installation and again at least 60
days prior to the expiration date of the maintenance bond so that the noted
recordings may be scheduled. Reports summarizing the results of the noted
visual recordings shall be reviewed and accepted by the county before the plat
is recommended for recording and again before maintenance bond would be
recommended to be released.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.110 COMPLIANCE.
   To secure compliance with the requirements of this chapter, violations
thereof shall be subject to the enforcement provisions set forth under division
(B) below. Additionally, compliance with all applicable ordinances of the
county as well as with applicable state statues and regulations shall also be
required. Unless otherwise stated, all other specifications referred to in this
chapter shall be the most recent edition available.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   Violation. Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of
this chapter, the requirements of an approved stormwater management design plan
or approval/permit, and/or the requirements of a recorded stormwater
maintenance agreement may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in
this subchapter. Any such action or inaction is deemed to be a public nuisance
and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief in addition to and
separate from the imposition of any of the enforcement actions described below.
      (2)   Compliance. The act of correcting a violation or violations within
the time frame specified by the county.
      (3)   Offense. Both a violation and a failure of compliance on a
particular project constitute an “offense.” If there are multiple violations or
multiple failures of compliance on the same project, each shall be considered a
separate offense as further stated in this section.
   (B)   Warning notice. When the county finds that any person has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order issued
hereunder, the county may serve upon that person a written warning notice,
specifying the particular violation believed to have occurred and requesting
the discharger to immediately investigate the matter and to seek a resolution
whereby any offending discharge will cease. Investigation and/or resolution of
the matter in response to the warning notice in no way relieves the alleged
violator of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of
the warning notice. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
county to take any action, including emergency action or any other enforcement
action, without first issuing a warning notice.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.111 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   If the county determines that an applicant or other responsible
person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit/approval,
an approved stormwater management design plan, a recorded stormwater management
maintenance agreement, or the provisions of this chapter, it shall issue a
written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person and
the owner of the property. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by
this chapter without having first secured a permit/approval therefore, the
notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in
charge of the activity being conducted on the site.
      (2)   The notice of violation shall contain detailed inspection findings,
conclusions of law, disposition of warning or fines assessed, stipulated
remedial actions as discussed with the responsible party representative,
reasonable deadlines for those remedial actions, and the date of re-inspection.
   (B)   Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties,
and remedies authorized by this chapter, the county may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, and the like.
   (C)   Civil penalties for violations.
      (1)   Any person who commits an offense under this chapter commits a
civil infraction and subject to the minimum fines as specified in the latest
version of penalty matrix approved by the County Drainage Board, plus costs,
damages, and expenses. Each day such violation occurs or continues without a
compliance action that is satisfactory to the county may be deemed a separate
offense and shall make the violator liable for the imposition of a fine for
each day. The rights and remedies provided for in this section are cumulative
and in addition to any other remedies provided by law. An admission or
determination of responsibility shall not exempt the offender from compliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this
chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
   (D)   Stop work order.
      (1)   In addition to the penalties listed above, if land disturbance
activities are conducted contrary to the provisions of this chapter or accepted
final stormwater management plans, the county may order the work stopped by
notice in writing served on any person engaged in the doing or causing of such
work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until
authorized by the county to proceed with the work. A stop work order will be
posted on the site by the county and it is unlawful for any person to remove
the notice or continue any work on the site without permission from the county.
The county may also undertake or cause to be undertaken, any necessary or
advisable protective measures to prevent violations of this chapter or to avoid
or reduce the effects of noncompliance herewith. The cost of any such
protective measures shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property
upon which the work is being done and the responsibility of any person carrying
out or participating in the work.
      (2)   The jurisdiction entity may bring an action under I.C. 34-28-5-1
(b), to be read together with I.C. 34-6-2.1-130(1)(B) and I.C. 13-21-3-12(4),
to enforce a stop work order against any person who neglects or fails to comply
with a stop work order.
      (3)   For construction projects that are operating under a SWPPP approved
by the county, if a stop work order is issued on the grounds that the erosion
and sediment control measures included in the construction plan are not
adequate, the project site owner shall be notified in writing of the
inadequacies in the erosion and sediment control measures and the project site
owner has 72 hours after receiving written notice to resolve the identified
inadequacies before the stop work order can take effect.
      (4)   The 72 hour period to resolve identified inadequacies on a
construction project does not apply if the stop work order is issued to a
construction project where the project site owner is creating a public health
hazard or safety hazard.
   (E)   Withhold certificate of occupancy. If applicable, the county may
refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other
improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant
or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the
notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
   (F)   Suspension, revocation, of modification of approvals/permits. The
county may suspend, revoke, or modify any existing permit/approval that the
violator may also have been previously granted. A suspended, revoked, or
modified permit/approval may be reinstated after the applicant or other
responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of
violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided
such permit/approval may be reinstated upon such conditions as the county may
deem necessary to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the
necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
   (G)   Suspension of access to the stormwater drainage system.
      (1)   Emergency cease and desist orders.
         (a)   When the county finds that any person has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order issued hereunder, or
that the person’s past violations are likely to recur, and that the person’s
violation(s) has (have) caused or contributed to an actual or threatened
discharge to the MS4 or waters of the United States which reasonably appears to
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or to the environment, the county may issue an order to the violator
directing it immediately to cease and desist all such violations and directing
the violator to immediately comply with all ordinance requirements and take
such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to properly address a
continuing or threatened violation, including immediately halting operations
and/or terminating the discharge.
         (b)   Any person notified of an emergency order directed to it under
this section shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering
discharge. In the event of a discharger’s failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the emergency order, the county may commence court action
against such person under I.C. 34-28-5-1(b), to be read together with I.C. 34-
6-2.1-130(1)(B) and I.C. 13-21-3-12(4), to enforce a stop work order.
         (c)   The county may allow the person to recommence its discharge when
it has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the county that the period of
endangerment has passed, unless further termination proceedings are initiated
against the discharger under this chapter. A person that is responsible, in
whole or in part, for any discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall
submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes of the harmful
discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the
county within five days of receipt of the emergency order. Issuance of an
emergency cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the violator.
      (2)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
county may, without prior notice, suspend stormwater drainage system discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the
stormwater drainage system or waters of the state if the violator fails to
comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the county may take such
steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the stormwater
drainage system or waters of the state, or to minimize danger to persons.
      (3)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the stormwater drainage system in violation of this chapter may
have their stormwater drainage system access terminated if such termination
would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The county will notify a violator
of the proposed termination of its stormwater drainage system access. The
violator may petition the county for a reconsideration and hearing. A person
commits an offense if the person reinstates stormwater drainage system access
to premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of
the county.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.112 COST OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedies, should any owner fail to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, the county may, after giving notice and
opportunity for compliance, have the necessary work done, and the owner shall
be required to promptly reimburse the county for all costs of such work.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county from taking such
other lawful action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All
costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
Costs include, but are not limited to, repairs to the stormwater drainage
system made necessary by the violation, as well as those penalties levied by
the EPA or IDEM for violation of the county’s NPDES permit, administrative
costs, attorney fees, court costs, and other costs and expenses associated with
the enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (C)   If the amount due for abatement of the violation is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the county or by the expiration
of the time in which to file an appeal, the county may commence a court action
to recover the costs assessed under I.C. 34-28-5-1(b), to be read together with
I.C. 34-6-2.1-130(1)(B) and I.C. 13-21-3-12(4).
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 152.113 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person to whom any provision of
this chapter has been applied may appeal in writing, not later than 30 days
after the action or decision being appealed from, to the County Board of
Commissioners the action or decision whereby any such provision was so applied.
Such appeal shall identify the matter being appealed, and the basis for the
appeal. The County Board of Commissioners shall consider the appeal and make a
decision whereby it affirms, rejects or modifies the action being appealed. In
considering any such appeal, the County Board of Commissioners may consider the
recommendations of the county staff and the comments of other persons having
knowledge of the matter. In considering any such appeal, the County Board of
Commissioners may grant a variance from the terms of this chapter to provide
relief, in whole or in part, from the action being appealed, but only upon
finding that the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The application of the chapter provisions being appealed will
present or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the chapter; and
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater runoff.
      (3)   Any person who has appealed a violation to the County Board of
Commissioners may appeal an adverse decision of the Board to the county court
within 60 days of the Boards order, all pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9(e) and (f).
   (B)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within five days of the decision of the county
upholding the decision of the county, then representatives of the county shall
enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all
measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property,
including the commencing of a court action under I.C. 34-28-5-1(b),to be read
together with I.C. 34-6-2.1-130(1)(B) and I.C. 13-21-3-12(4), to enforce the
order of the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2023-45, passed 12-12-2023)
CHAPTER 153: LAND USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 153.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county’s land use provisions, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed - -; Ord. 2016-12, passed - -; Res. 04-11, passed 12-21-
2004; Ord. 2006-31, passed 12-19-2006; Ord. 2007-09, passed 5-22-2007; Ord.
2007-10, passed 5-22-2007; Ord. 2009-08, passed 4-28-2009; Ord. 2009-17, passed
6-23-2009; Ord. 2009-18, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 2009-20, passed 8-18-2009; Ord.
2009-27, passed 9-15-2009; Ord. 2009-29, passed 10-27-2009; Ord. 2010-02,
passed 1-26-2010; Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-26-2010; Ord. 2010-14, passed 5-25-
2010; Ord. 2010-21, passed 8-24-2010; Ord. 2011-18, passed 8-23-2011; Ord.
2011-19, passed 8-23-2011; Ord. 2013-16, passed 8-27-2013; Ord. 2014-30, passed
6-24-2014; Ord. 2014-48, passed 12-23-2014; Ord. 2017-01, passed 1-10-2017;
Ord. 2017-15, passed 4-25-2017; Ord. 2017-42, passed 9-26-2017; Ord. 2017-48,
passed 10-24-2017; Ord. 2017-49, passed 10-24-2017; Ord. 2017-43, passed 9-26-
2017; Ord. 2019-15, passed 4-23-2019; Ord. 2019-16, passed 4-23-2019; Ord.
2019-32, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 2019-40, passed 11-26-2019; Ord. 01-21-04,
passed 2-23-2021; Ord. 2022-31, passed 6-28-2022; Ord. 2022-32, passed 6-28-
2022; Ord. 2022-34, passed 7-26-2022; Ord. 2024-16, passed 4-23-2024; Ord.
2024-34, passed 8-27-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
      
IV.   LAND VACATIONS
      
V.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
VI.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1980-4        3-10-1980   Sinclair Telecable Inc. Expired 3-10-1995 (15 years).
1997-40       12-8-1997   Phoenix Concept Cablevision of Indiana, LLC. Expired
                          12-8-2012 (15 years).
                          Transfer of cable television assignment from Phoenix
R. 1998-3     5-11-1998   Concept Cablevision of Indiana, LLC, to Telepartners,
                          LLC.
1994-4        2-8-1999    Comcast Cable Television of Indianapolis, LLC.
                          Expired 2-8-2014 (15 years).
                         
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
1990- 9-4-   Northeast quarter of section 8, part of northwest quarter of section 9, all in township
14    1990   15 north, range 1 east. Changed from the zoning classification of “S”, Suburban District
             to “SC”, Shopping Center District.
             Southwest quarter of section 32, township 15 north, range 2 west, second principal
11    2-10-  meridian of Clay Township, Town of Coatesville. Changed from the zoning classification
      1992   of “R-2", Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General
             Commercial District.
1992- 3-2-   Southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of section 4, township 15 north, range 1 east
14    1992   in Washington Township. Changed from the zoning classification of “C-3”, Office
             Commercial District to “R-3”, High Density, Single-Family Residential District.
      3-16-  Part of the west half of the northwest quarter of section 2, township 15 north, range 1
15    1992   east, Washington Township. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium
             Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-1”, Neighborhood Commercial District.
             Part of the west half of the northwest quarter of section 2, township 15 north, range 1
16    3-16-  east, Washington Township. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium
      1992   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-3”, High Density, Single-Family
             Residential District.
             Parcel of land equaling 1.55 acres located on the west side of S.R. 236, and 0.16 mile
1992- 5-26-  south of Co. Rd. 650 N, Eel River Township. Changed from the zoning classification of
18    1992   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District.
             Parcel of land equaling 1.55 acres located on the west side of S.R. 236, and 0.16 mile
1992- 5-26-  south of Co. Rd. 650 N, Eel River Township. Changed from the zoning classification of
28    1992   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District (ZA-25/BR92-01).
1992- 6-1-   Part of the southeast quarter of section 33, township 15 north, range 1 east, Guilford
19    1992   Township. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District.
1992- 6-1-   Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 in Canterberry Gardens. Changed from the zoning classification of
20    1992   “C-2”, General Commercial District to “I-1”, Research/Office Industrial District (ZA-20/
             CE92-03).
             Part of the southeast quarter of section 33, township 15 north, range 1 east, at the
1992- 6-1-   beginning of the southwest corner of the west half of the southeast quarter and section.
21    1992   Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2” Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-18/GU92-05).
1992- 6-1-   Part of the southeast quarter of section 33, township 15 north, range 1 east. Changed
29    1992   from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential
             District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-18/GU92-05).
1992- 6-1-   Part of the southeast quarter of section 33, township 15 north, range 1 east, Guilford
30    1992   Township. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-19/GU92-06).
1992- 6-1-   Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 in Canterberry Gardens. Changed from the zoning classification of
31    1992   “C-2”, General Commercial District to “I-1", Research/Office Industrial District (ZA-20/
             CE92-03).
1992- 6-8-   Part of section 32, township 16 north, range 1 west in Center Township. Changed from the
23    1992   zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-
             2”, General Commercial District (ZA-21/CE92-04).
1992- 6-8-   Part of the northeast quarter of section 6, township 14 north, range 1 east. Changed
24    1992   from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District
             to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-23/LB92-02).
             Part of the northeast quarter of section 6, township 14, range 1 north, east of the
1992- 6-8-   second principal meridian. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density,
32    1992   Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-23/LB92-
             02).
             Part of the southwest quarter of section 2, and the northwest quarter of section 11, all
1992- 7-6-   in township 14 north, range 1 west, Liberty Township. Changed from the zoning
33    1992   classification of “C-2”, General Commercial District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial
             District (ZA-14/LB92-01).
1992- 7-6-   A.J. and Joyce Watson; changing a parcel of real estate’s zoning classification from “R-
34    1992   1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District
             (ZA-15/MI92-02).
1992- 7-6-   Joe Saldana; changing a parcel of real estate’s zoning classification from “R-1”, Low
35    1992   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-16/
             MI92-03).
1992- 7-6-   Jeff Laskowski; changing a parcel of real estate’s zoning classification from “R-1”, Low
36    1992   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-17/
             MI92-04).
1992- 7-6-   Geraldine Dunkin and Gladden and Company; changing a parcel of real estate’s zoning
37    1992   classification from “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”,
             Light Industrial District (ZA-22/GU92-07).
1992- 7-6-   Helen Pecar; changing a parcel of real estate’s zoning classification from “R-1”, Low
38    1992   Density, Single-Family Residential District and “C-3”, Office Commercial District to “C-
             2”, General Commercial District (ZA-26/WA92-05).
             Part of the northeast fractional quarter of section 1, township 14 north, range 1 west.
1992- 7-13-  Includes part of the south half of the northeast quarter of section 1, township 14
39    1992   north, range 1 west. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density,
             Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-24/LB92-03).
1992- 7-20-  Part of northeast quarter of section 28, township 17 north, range 1 west. Changed from
40    1992   the zoning classification of “C-4”, Highway Commercial District to “R-1”, Low Density,
             Single-Family Residential District (ZA-27/UN92-01).
             Part of the east half of southeast quarter of section 2, township 15 north, range 1
1992- 9-29-  east. Changed from the zoning classification of “C-2”, General Commercial District and
45    1992   “C-3”, Office Commercial District to “R-3”, High Density, Single-Family Residential
             District.
             All of the part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of section 5, township
1992- 11-24- 16 north, range 1 east of the second principal meridian. Changed from the zoning
46    1992   classification of “C-2”, General Commercial District to “R-3”, High Density, Single-
             Family Residential District (ZA-29/MI92-05).
             William C. Hopkins; 43.79 acres, located on the east side of Co. Rd. 625 E, and 0.50
1993- 3-30-  mile south of Co. Rd. 150 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
6     1993   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District (ZA-33/WA93-02).
1993- 4-5-   Robert E. Pfeffer; 4.37 acres located on the south side of U.S. Highway 40, and 0.25
9     1993   mile west of Raceway Road. Change from the zoning classification of “C-2”, General
             Commercial District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-38/WA93-07).
             Sanders Development Corporation; 100.18 acres located on the south side of Co. Rd. 100
1993- 4-19-  N, and 0.35 mile west of Co. Rd. 900 E; and 40 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd.
10    1993   800 E and 0.35 mile south of Co. Rd. 100 N. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-3”, High Density, Single-
             Family Residential District (ZA-30/WA92-07).
             Richard A. Turner; 78.21 acres located on the south side of Co. Rd. 100 N, and 0.40 mile
1993- 4-19-  east of S.R. 267. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Low Density, Single-
11    1993   Family Residential District to “R-3”, High Density, Single-Family Residential District
             (ZA-31/WA92-08).
             Melody Communities Inc., Corporation; 60 acres located 0.13 mile north of U.S. Highway
1993- 4-19-  36 and Avon Park Place, and east of Avon Heights Subdivision. Changed from the zoning
12    1993   classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-3”,
             High Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-32/WA93-01).
             David O. Finchum; 40 acres located at the northeast corner of Co. Rd. 800 E and Co. Rd.
1993- 4-19-  200 S; and 7.02 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd. 800 E, and 0.10 mile south of
13    1993   Co. Rd. 100 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-
             Family Residential District to “R-3”, High Density, Single-Residential District (ZA-34/
             WA93-03).
1993- 4-27-  James Venable; 0.42 acre located on the east side of S.R. 267, and 0.07 mile north of
15    1993   Maple Drive. Changed from the zoning classification of “C-2”, General Commercial
             District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-39/WA93-08).
             Mark E. Sanders, Raymond O. Lee; 79.40 acres located on the northwest corner of U.S.
1993- 4-27-  Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium
16    1993   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-
             42/WA93-11).
             Mark E. Sanders, Raymond O. Lee; 261.80 acres located on the south side of Co. Rd. 100
1993- 4-27-  N, and on the west side of Co. Rd. 1050 E, 0.50 mile of U.S. Highway 36. Changed from
17    1993   the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to
             “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-43/WA93-12).
             Mark E. Sanders, Raymond O. Lee; 97.30 acres located on the west side of Co. Rd. 1050 E,
1993- 4-27-  and 0.40 mile north of U.S. Highway 36. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
18    1993   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District and “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District to “R-3”, High Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-44/
             WA93-13).
             Christian Life Center; 20 acres located 0.25 mile east of Co. Rd. 800 E, north of Austin
1993- 4-27-  Lakes Subdivision and 0.50 mile north of U.S. Highway 36. Change from the zoning
19    1993   classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-3”, High
             Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-45/WA93-14).
             Raymond O. Lee; 67 acres located on the northwest corner of U.S. Highway 40 and Raceway
1993- 5-25-  Road, and on the south side of Co. Rd. 200 S. Changed from the zoning classification of
23    1993   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District (ZA-40/WA93-09).
             Raymond O. Lee; 300 acres located on the south side of Co. Rd. 100 S, on the west side
1993- 5-25-  of Raceway Road, on the north side of Co. Rd. 200 S, and on the east side of Co. Rd.
24    1993   1050 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family
             Residential District to “I-4”, Industrial Park District (ZA-41/WA93-10).
             Luther C. Broyles Estate, Luther C. Broyles, Jr.; 77 acres located on the west side of
1993- 5-25-  Co. Rd. 625 E and 0.42 mile south of U.S. Highway 36 and south of Conrail Tracks.
25    1993   Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential
             District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-46/WA93-15).
1993- 7-19-  Jean Persinger, Washington Township; located at the southeast corner of U.S. Highway 36
27    1993   and Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “I-2”, Light Industrial
             District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-48/WA93-16).
             Noble N. Taylor, Washington Township; 74 acres located on the north side of Co. Rd. 100
1993- 8-2-   S, and 0.25 mile west of Co. Rd. 800 E and west of Pine Tree Elementary School. Changed
30    1993   from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential
             District to “R-3”, High Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-49/WA93-17).
1993- 8-18-  Prestwick Pointe, Inc., Washington Township; 2.15 acres, located on the northwest corner
31    1993   of U.S. Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 525 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “C-3”,
             Office Commercial District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-50/WA93-18).
1993- 9-27-  Located on the east side of Co. Rd. 625 E and 0.65 mile north of Co. Rd. 300 S. Changed
32    1993   from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District
             to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-51/WA93-19).
             Beau Wilfong, Washington Township; 25.88 acres located on the west side of Co. Rd. 625 E
1993- 10-25- and 0.50 mile north of U.S. Highway 36. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
36    1993   Low Density, Single-Family Residential to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential (ZA-52/WA93-20).
             George and Joyce Nelson, Center Township; 1.66 acres located on the south side of East
1993- 12-20- Main Street, and 0.40 mile east of Co. Rd. 200 E. Changed from the zoning classification
38    1993   of “I-1”, Research/Office Industrial District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District (ZA-53/CE93-01).
1994- 3-21-  Avon Business Park, Washington Township; 12 acres located on the south side of U.S.
5     1994   Highway 36 and 0.50 mile east of S.R. 267. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “SC”, Shopping Center District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-54/WA94-01).
             Horizon Homes, Inc., Washington Township; 1.24 acres located on the northwest corner of
1994- 4-18-  Co. Rd. 625 E and U.S. Highway 36. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
6     1994   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-
             55/WA94-02).
1994- 8-1-   GRP Development Inc., Center Township; 372.97 acres located on the east side of S.R. 39
8     1994   and north of I-70. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-
             Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-58/LB94-01).
25    8-11-  Boyd A. and Linda B. Knowlson, town of Brownsburg; located in the southwest corner of
1994  1994   the intersection of S.R. 267 and Co. Rd. 425 N. Changed to the zoning classification of
             “R-3”, Two-Family Residential District.
             Gem Land Trust, Liberty Township; 19.39 acres located on the west side of S.R. 39, and
1994- 8-15-  0.28 mile south of the Contrail Tracks. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
10    1994   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-
             57/CE94-01).
             Ruth Burnett (et al.), Washington Township; 171.09 acres located on the east side of Co.
1994- 8-15-  Rd. 800 E, on the north side of Co. Rd. 100 S, and on the south side of Conrail Yards.
11    1994   Changed from the zoning classification of “I-4”, Heavy Industrial District to “R-2”,
             Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-59/WA94-04).
             John Wittman, Joe Saldana (et al.), Lincoln Township; 30.93 acres located 0.12 mile west
1994- 9-19-  of S.R. 267, north of Donelly Heights Subdivision, and southeast of Locust Lane. Changed
13    1994   from the zoning classification of “C-2”, General Commercial District to “R-2”, Medium
             Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-60/LN94-01).
             4010 North State Road 267, Inc., Lincoln Township; 2.47 acres located on the west side
1994- 9-19-  of S.R. 267 and northwest of the intersection with Co. Rd. 400 N. Changed from the
14    1994   zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to
             “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-61/LN94-02).
             Sanders Development, Washington Township; 16.69 acres located 0.10 mile north of U.S.
1994- 9-19-  Highway 36 and 0.30 mile west of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning classification
15    1994   of “C-2”, General Commercial District to “R-5”, High Density, Multi-Family Residential
             District (ZA-63/WA94-06).
1994- 10-17- Jean Persinger, Washington Township; 21.07 acres located on the southeast corner of U.S.
17    1994   Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “I-2”,
             Industrial District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-65/WA94-08).
             Westar, Inc., Washington Township; two acres located on the northwest side of the
1994- 11-21- intersection of U.S. Highway 36 and East Main Street. Changed from the zoning
21    1994   classification of “C-3”, Office Commercial District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District (ZA-66/WA94-09).
             Town of North Salem, Eel River Township; 6.48 acres located south of Railroad Street
1994- 11-21- between S.R. 75 and McKinley Street, and Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning
22    1994   classification of “I-1”, Research/Office Industrial District to “I-2”, Light Industrial
             District (ZA-67/ER94-01).
             Town of Coatesville, Clay Township; 24.88 acres located north of Hadley Street, west of
1994- 11-21- S.R. 75 and east of Milton Street, known as Teal Lake Subdivision. Changed from the
23    1994   zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-
             2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-68/CL94-01).
             Forrest S. English, Washington Township; 0.80 acre located on the south side of U.S.
1994- 12-19- Highway 36 and 0.47 mile west of Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning classification
25    1994   of “I-2”, Light Industrial District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-68/WA94-
             10).
             Mike Stephenson and Brian Stephenson, Clay Township, two parcels; 3.48 acres located on
1995- 3-6-   the southwest corner of Co. Rd. 800 W and Co. Rd. 350 S, on the south side of the
1     1995   Conrail Tracks in the area also known as Reno. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-3”, Heavy Industrial
             District (ZA-70/CL95-01).
             Michael McDonald/Indiana Outdoor Advertising, Inc., Middle Township, four parcels; 11.14
1995- 3-6-   acres located on the north side of Co. Rd. 800 N, and 0.10 mile east of Co. Rd. 100 E
2     1995   and west of Co. Rd. 150 E, on the south side of I-74. Changed from the zoning
             classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”, Light
             Industrial District (ZA-72/MI95-02).
             Donald and Rosalie Ratliff, Middle Township; located on the east side of Co. Rd. 100 E
1995- 3-20-  and 0.10 mile north of U.S. Highway 136. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-
3     1995   1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District
             (ZA-71/MI95-01).
             George Haboush, Washington Township; 0.86 acre, located on the north side of U.S.
1995- 3-27-  Highway 36 and 0.50 mile west of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning classification
6     1995   of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General
             Commercial District (ZA-73/WA95-01).
             Adesa Indianapolis, Inc. (Warren Byrd), Washington Township, five parcels; 145.35 acres
1995- 4-17-  located on the north side of U.S. Highway 40, 0.35 mile west of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed
8     1995   from the zoning classification of “C-1”, Neighborhood Commercial District to “R-2”,
             Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-74/WA95-02).
             Cynthia Crowder, Liberty Township; 5.91 acres located on the west side of S.R. 39 and
1995- 4-17-  0.05 mile south of Co. Rd. 900 S, and south of Center Valley Cemetery. Changed from the
9     1995   zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-
             2”, General Commercial District (ZA-75/LB95-01).
             Brett L. King, Clay Township; 0.35 acre located on the south side of Co. Rd. 500 S, 0.06
1995- 4-17-  mile east of Co. Rd. 525 W, in the town of Amo (property known as 5175 West Co. Rd. 500
10    1995   S). Changed from the zoning classification of “C-1”, Neighborhood Commercial District to
             “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-76/CL95-02).
             Sycamore Associates, Inc., Washington Township; 22.50 acres located on the northwest
1995- 4-17-  corner of S.R. 276 and Co. Rd. 100 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “C-1”,
11    1995   Neighborhood Commercial District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential
             District (ZA-77/WA95-02).
             Hendricks County Area Plan Commission, Washington Township; 16 acres located on the west
1995- 5-15-  side of Raceway Road, 0.50 mile of north of Co. Rd. 200 N. Changed from the zoning
13    1995   classification of “R-1”, Single-Family Residential District to “I-3”, Heavy Industrial
             District (ZA-78/WA95-04).
             Chuck Dugger Realty Company, Washington Township; 9.85 acres located on the north side
1995- 5-15-  of U.S. Highway 40 and 0.25 mile west of Clover Drive. Changed from the zoning
14    1995   classification of “C-2”, General Commercial District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial
             District (ZA-82/WA95-08).
             Cedar Run, Ltd., Inc., Washington Township; 177.25 acres located on the northwest corner
1995- 5-22-  of Raceway Road and Co. Rd. 200 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
16    1995   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District (ZA-80/WA95-06).
             Brazos Development, Washington Township; 11.81 acres located 0.10 mile north of U.S.
1995- 6-19-  Highway 36 and 0.40 mile west of Co. Rd. 800 E, and west of the Cobblestone Springs
17    1995   Subdivision. Changed from the zoning classification of “C-3”, Office Commercial District
             to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-81/WA95-07).
             Jean Evans, Franklin Township; 2.63 acres located on the west side of S.R. 75, 0.16 mile
1995- 6-19-  south of Co. Rd. 600 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density,
18    1995   Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-83/FR95-
             01).
             David E. and Linda C. West, Center Township; 10.16 acres located on the west side of Co.
1995- 7-17-  Rd. 225 E and 0.12 mile south of Co. Rd. 150 S. Changed from the zoning classification
20    1995   of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”, Light Industrial
             District (ZA-84/CE95-01).
             A.K.&M. Properties, Washington Township; 1.85 acres located on the southwest corner of
1995- 7-17-  U.S. Highway 36 and Gable Drive (property known as 9719 East U.S. Highway 36). Changed
21    1995   from the zoning classification of “I-2”, Light Industrial District to “C-2”, General
             Commercial District (ZA-86/WA95-10).
             Ronald E. Farren, Washington Township; 0.78 acre located on the southeast corner of U.S.
1995- 7-17-  Highway 40 and Co. Rd. 1050 E (Six Points Road). Changed from the zoning classification
22    1995   of “C-2”, General Commercial District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-87/WA95-
             11).
             Sanders Development Group, Inc., Washington Township; 3.70 acres located on the north
1995- 7-17-  side of U.S. Highway 36 and 0.25 mile west of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning
23    1995   classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”,
             General Commercial District (ZA-88/WA95-12).
1995- 8-21-  Dale Hanke, Guilford Township; four acres located on the west side of S.R. 267 and 0.32
24    1995   mile south of Co. Rd. 300 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium
             Density, Single-Family District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-90/GU95-01).
1995- 8-21-  Ross and Joyce McClain, Brown Township; four acres located on the northeast corner of
25    1995   Co. Rd. 900 E and Co. Rd. 700 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
             Density, Single-Family District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-91/BR95-01).
             Avon Community Church of the Nazarene, Washington Township; one acre located on the
1995- 8-21-  northeast corner of U.S. Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 625 E. Changed from the zoning
26    1995   classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”,
             General Commercial District (ZA-92/WA95-14).
             Emmett F. Fuehrer, Jr., and Karla J. Fuehrer, Clay Township; 4.50 acres located on the
1995- 8-21-  southwest corner of Co. Rd. 425 S and Co. Rd. 500 W. Changed from the zoning
27    1995   classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”, Light
             Industrial District (ZA-93/CL95-03).
             Michael Allgaier, Lincoln Township; 1.60 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd. 1000
1995- 9-25-  E, and 0.07 mile south of U.S. Highway 136, and north of the Conrail Tracks (Lots 2 and
30    1995   3 of MIP-173). Changed from the zoning classification of “C-2”, General Commercial
             District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-89/LN95-01).
             Streibeck Company, Center Township; 43 acres located on the north side of U.S. Highway
1995- 9-25-  36, and 0.06 mile east of Co. Rd. 300 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “I-
31    1995   2”, Light Industrial District to “C-2”, General Commercial District and “R-5”, High
             Density Multi-Family District (ZA-94/CE95-02).
             Cedar Run, Ltd., Washington Township, three parcels; 255.89 acres, changing from a “R-
             1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial
1995- 9-25-  District (150.52 acres); changing from a “R-1", Low Density, Single-Family Residential
32    1995   District to “C-3”, Office Commercial District (14.03 acres); and changing from a “R-1”,
             Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-5”, High Density, Multi-Family
             District (91.34 acres). ZA-96/GU95-02.
             Forefront, Inc., Washington Township; Located on the west side of S.R. 267, 0.63 mile
1995- 10-9-  north of Co. Rd. 300 S, opposite of Hidden Valley Subdivision. Changed from the zoning
33    1995   classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”,
             Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-97/WA95-16).
             Mariquita M. Palanca, Washington Township; one acre located on the southeast corner of
1995- 10-16- Co. Rd. 100 N and Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
34    1995   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-3”, Office Commercial District (ZA-95/
             WA95-15).
             Linda Rasor, Washington Township; 0.50 acre located on the north side of Co. Rd. 100 S,
1995- 11-20- and 0.53 mile east of Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “I-4”,
38    1995   Industrial Park District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District
             (ZA-106/WA95-18).
             Frances Draum, Guilford Township; 2.65 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd. 701 E,
1995- 12-4-  and 0.31 mile south of Co. Rd. 825 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
39    1995   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District
             (ZA-103/GU95-05).
             Michael and Linda Firestone, Washington Township; 0.44 acre located on the east side of
1995- 12-4-  Clover Drive, and 0.04 mile south of U.S. Highway 40. Changed from the zoning
40    1995   classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”,
             General Commercial District (ZA-104/WA95-17).
             Darrell Edwards, Center Township; 3.09 acres located on the south side of Lincoln Street
1995- 12-18- (Danville) and 0.15 mile west of S.R. 39. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-
35    1995   1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial
             District (ZA-99/CE95-03).
             Qualitech Steel Corporation, Lincoln Township; 175.70 acres located 0.50 mile south of
95-37 12-22- Co. Rd. 600 N, 0.25 mile west of Co. Rd. 900 E, and north of the Conrail Tracks. Changed
      1995   from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District
             to “I-2”, Light Commercial District (ZA-109/LN95-03).
             Sanders Development, Washington Township; 7.47 acres located 0.25 mile of north of U.S.
1995- 12-27- Highway 36 and 0.20 mile west of the north/south connector road, 0.10 mile east of
36    1995   Glenbrook Subdivision. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-3”, High Density,
             Single-Family Residential District to “R-5”, High Density, Multi-Family Residential
             District (ZA-108/WA95-20).
             Kevin and Kimberly Sturgeon, Washington Township; 1.16 acres located on the southeast
96-3  1-21-  corner of U.S. Highway 40 and Co. Rd. 400 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
      1996   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial
             District (ZA-113/LB96-02).
             Republic Development Corporation, Washington Township; located on the east side of Co.
96-4  1-21-  Rd. 625 E, 0.25 mile south of Co. Rd. 150 S. Changed from the zoning classification of
      1996   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-
             Family Residential District (ZA-115/WA96-02).
             William A. Schmadeke, Washington Township; 54.22 acres located on the east side of Co.
      2-20-  Rd. 800 E and 0.25 mile north of Co. Rd. 100 S. Changed from the zoning classification
96-5  1996   of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-5”, High Density,
             Multi-Family Residential District and “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-117/WA96-
             04).
             Timberland Homes, Inc., Washington Township; 3.09 acres located on the north side of
96-6  2-20-  U.S. Highway 40, and 0.61 mile west of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning
      1996   classification of “C-2”, General Commercial District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial
             District (ZA-116/WA96-03).
      3-4-   John Hall, Washington Township; 30 acres located on the west side of S.R. 39, 0.85 mile
96-8  1996   south of U.S. Highway 40. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density,
             Single-Family District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-112/LB96-01).
             B&E Construction, Washington Township; 4.7 acres located on south side of U.S. Highway
96-9  3-18-  36, and 0.25 mile east Co. Rd. 900 E (property known as 9215 East U.S. Highway 36).
      1996   Changed from the zoning classification of “I-2”, Light Industrial District to “C-2”,
             General Commercial District (ZA-118/WA96-05).
             John Lazaro, Jr., Washington Township; 2.41 acres located on the southeast corner of Co.
96-10 3-18-  Rd. 100 S and Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium
      1996   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-
             119/WA96-06).
             Habitat for Humanity, Center Township; five acres located on the east side of Co. Rd.
96-11 3-18-  150 E and 0.15 mile north of Co. Rd. 200 S. Changed from the zoning classification of
      1996   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-
             Family Residential District (ZA-121/CE96-01).
             MBA, LLC, Middle Township, one parcel; 140.50 acres located at the southwest corner of
96-18 5-13-  Co. Rd. 225 E and Co. Rd. 800 N, north of the Conrail Tracks. Changed from the zoning
      1996   classification of “I-2”, Light Industrial District to “I-3”, Heavy Industrial District
             (ZA-126/MI96-01).
             County Board of Commissioners, Lincoln Township; 175.7 acres located 0.50 mile south of
96-21 5-28-  Co. Rd. 600 N, 0.25 mile west of Co. Rd. 900 E, and north of the Contrail Tracks.
      1996   Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential
             District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-131/LN96-03).
             Republic Development Corporation, Washington Township; 104.65 acres located on the
      5-28-  southeast corner of Co. Rd. 625 E and Co. Rd. 150 S, and north of Avon Estates
96-22 1996   Subdivision. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family
             Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-
             129/WA96-11).
             County Board of Commissioners, Liberty Township; 15 acres located on the west side of
96-23 5-28-  S.R. 39 and 0.85 mile south of U.S. Highway 40. Changed from the zoning classification
      1996   of “C-4”, Highway Commercial District to “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential
             District (ZA-125/LB96-03).
             Clyde W. Frantzreb (et al.) Washington Township; 3.92 acres located on the north side of
96-24 5-28-  U.S. Highway 40, and 0.05 mile east of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning
      1996   classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”,
             General Commercial District (ZA-127/WA96-10).
             Mirza A. and Kishwer Beg, Washington Township; 0.59 acre located on the north side of
1996- 7-14-  U.S. Highway 40, 100 feet east of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning classification
28    1996   of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District (ZA-132/WA96-13).
      8-5-   Green Street Corporation, Washington Township; 5.05 acres located in the southeast
96-31 1996   corner of Co. Rd. 100 N and S.R. 267. Changed from the zoning classification of “C-1”,
             Commercial District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-130/WA96-12).
             Tom and Patricia Kiritsis, Liberty Township; 313.50 acres located on the northeast
      9-16-  corner of S.R. 39 and the Morgan county line road, and on the south side of Co. Rd. 1000
96-32 1996   S, 0.25 mile east of S.R. 39. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
             Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-
             134/LB96-04).
             Avon Community Church of the Nazerene, Washington Township; 16 acres located on the
96-33 9-16-  northeast corner of U.S. Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 625 E. Changed from the zoning
      1996   classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”,
             General Commercial District (ZA-135/WA96-14).
             James and Darci Cameron, Center Township; 3.50 acres located on the south side of East
96-34 9-16-  Main Street 0.28 mile east of Co. Rd. 300 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
      1996   “I-1”, Research/Office Industrial District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-137/
             CE96-07).
             Walter and Patricia Ingram, Union Township; 4.80 acres located on the southwest corner
96-35 9-16-  of Co. Rd. 800 N and Co. Rd. 100 E, and north of the Conrail Tracks. Changed from the
      1996   zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-
             2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-138/UN96-02).
             Dennis E. Barley/Storage King, Inc., Washington Township; 0.914 acre located on the
1996- 10-14- south side of East U.S. Highway 36, 0.25 mile east of Co. Rd. 900 E, minor plat, Lot
37    1996   660. Changed from the zoning classification of “I-2”, Light Industrial District to “C-
             2”, General Commercial District (ZA-140/WA96-15).
             Mark Vanvalkenburg, Washington Township; 1.2 acres located on the south side of East
1996- 10-14- U.S. Highway 36, 0.09 mile east of Co. Rd. 625 E. Changed from the zoning classification
38    1996   of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District (ZA-141/WA96-16).
             George Haboush, Washington Township; 0.50 acre located on the north side of east U.S.
1996- 10-14- Highway 36, 0.50 mile west of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
39    1996   “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District (ZA-142/WA96-17).
             William Osborn, Washington Township; 113 acres located on the north side of Co. Rd. 100
1996- 10-14- S, 0.25 mile west of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
40    1996   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District (ZA-143/WA96-18).
             Fred and Sandy Arkanoff, Brown Township; 2.24 acres located on the west side of S.R.
1996- 11-18- 267, 0.50 mile north of Co. Rd. 1000 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
44    1996   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District
             (ZA-139/BR96-01).
1996- 11-18- NHRA (raceway park), Lincoln Township; 311.55 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd.
47    1996   1000 E, south of U.S. Highway 136. Changed from the zoning classification of “C-2”,
             General Commercial District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-144/LN96-05).
             Sanders Development Group, Inc., Washington Township; 44.88 acres located on the north
1996- 12-16- side of U.S. Highway 36, and 0.25 mile east of Co. Rd. 900 E. Changed from the zoning
48    1996   classification of “C-4”, Highway Commercial District to “R-5”, High Density, Multi-
             Family Residential District (ZA-146/WA96-19).
             William Wayne Harmless, Marion Township; 1.77 acres located on the south side of U.S.
1997- 1-21-  Highway 36, one mile west of S.R. 75. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
1     1997   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District
             (ZA-151/MA97-01).
             Sanders Development Group, Inc., Liberty Township; 133 acres located on the northwest
1997- 1-21-  corner of Co. Rd. 1000 S and S.R. 39. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
2     1997   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District
             (ZA-149/LB97-01).
             Whiten & Gregory, Washington Township; 52.32 acres located on south side of Co. Rd. 100
1997- 1-21-  N, 720 feet west of Co. Rd. 900 E, and on the west side of Co. Rd. 600 E, 700 feet south
3     1997   of Co. Rd. 100 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-
             Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District
             (ZA-147/WA97-01).
             Republic Development Corporation, Washington Township; 138.07 acres located on the
1997- 2-18-  northwest corner of Co. Rd. 100 N and Raceway Road. Changed from the zoning
5     1997   classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “PUD”,
             Planned Unit Development District (ZA-153/WA97-03).
             William and Vicki Richmond, Guilford Township; 5.12 acres located on the east side of
1997- 2-18-  Bountiful Place, 0.15 mile south of Co. Rd. 600 S. Changed from the zoning
6     1997   classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”,
             Light Industrial District (ZA-152/GU97-01).
             Merlyn and Shirely Jones, Liberty Township; 97 acres located on the west side of S.R.
1997- 3-17-  39, 0.49 mile north of Co. Rd. 1000 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
9     1997   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District
             (ZA-155/LB97-02).
             Hannell Wrecking, Franklin Township; 16.59 acres located on the north side of U.S.
1997- 3-17-  Highway 40, 0.50 mile east of Co. Rd. 350 W. Changed from the zoning classification of
10    1997   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial
             District (ZA-154/FR97-01).
      4-21-  Thomas E. Scott, Washington Township; 2.07 acres located on the south side of U.S.
97-13 1997   Highway 36, 0.50 mile west of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “I-2”, Light Industrial District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-156/WA97-04).
             John and Pam Hall, Liberty Township; 13.44 acres located on the south side of U.S.
97-14 4-21-  Highway 40, 0.01 mile west of S.R. 39. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2”,
      1997   Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District
             (ZA-157/LB97-03).
             Cedar Run, Ltd., Guilford Township; 260 acres located on the northwest corner of Raceway
      4-21-  Road and Hendricks County Road. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
97-15 1997   Density, Single-Family Residential District, “R-5”, High Density, Multi-Family
             Residential District, and “C-3”, Office Commercial District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District and “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District District (ZA-158/GU97-02).
             Avon Commercial Enterprises, LLC, Washington Township; 6.92 acres located on the south
97-17 5-19-  side of U.S. Highway 36, 0.50 mile east of Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning
      1997   classification of “I-2”, Light Industrial District to “C-2”, General Commercial District
             (ZA-160/WA97-06).
      5-19-  Michelle Phillips, Washington Township; 3.93 acres located on the south side of U.S.
97-18 1997   Highway 36, 0.25 mile east of Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “I-2”, Light Industrial District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-159/WA97-05).
             Don Murray, Washington Township; 5.41 acres located on the southwest corner of Raceway
1997- 6-16-  Road and Co. Rd. 100 N (10th Street). Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
21    1997   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District
             (ZA-161/WA97-07).
             E.E. Gregory (et al.), Franklin Township; six lots totaling 1.10 acres located on the
1997- 6-16-  south side of South Street, 0.06 mile west of Tudor Road, town of Stilesville. Changed
22    1997   from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential
             District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-163/FR97-02).
             Duane Lane, Liberty Township; 0.45 acre located on the southeast corner of Tennessee
1997- 7-21-  Street and Iowa Street (Lots 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the Town of Clayton). Changed from the
25    1997   zoning classification of “I-1”, Research/Office Industrial District to “I-2”, Light
             Industrial District (ZA-165/LB97-04).
             Johnny and Jackie Van Bibber, Washington Township; 4.16 acres located on the north side
1997- 8-18-  of Co. Rd. 200 N, 0.38 mile east of Co. Rd. 600 E. Changed from the zoning
27    1997   classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-4”,
             Medium Density, Multi-Family Residential District (ZA-168/WA97-10).
             James M. and Kathryn L. Worth, Lincoln Township; 3.17 acres located on the west side of
1997- 8-18-  Co. Rd. 575 E, 0.44 mile north of Co. Rd. 350 N. Changed from the zoning classification
28    1997   of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District (ZA-169/LN97-03).
1997- 8-18-  Michael Firestone, Washington Township; 1.50 acres located on the north side of U.S.
29    1997   Highway 40, 0.56 mile of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “C-
             2”, General Commercial District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-171/WA97-11).
             Pinnacle Properties, Washington Township; 32.40 acres located on the south side of U.S.
1997- 8-18-  Highway 36, 0.25 mile east of Co. Rd. 625 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
30    1997   “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-5”, High Density, Multi-
             Family Residential District (ZA-172/WA97-12).
1997- 9-15-  Rex and Sharon Dugan, Washington Township; 9.10 acres located on the northeast corner of
31    1997   U.S. Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 525 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “C-3”,
             Office Commercial District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-173/WA97-13).
             Kurt Clearwaters, Liberty Township; 0.28 acre located on the northeast corner of Short
1997- 9-15-  Street and South Street, end of first block south of U.S. Highway 40, town of
33    1997   Belleville. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-
             Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-176/LB97-05).
             Preston West, Brown Township; 32.89 acres located on the south side of Co. Rd. 800 N,
1997- 9-15-  0.75 mile west of Co. Rd. 650 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
34    1997   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District
             (ZA-177/BR97-01).
             Oakfield Development, Washington Township; 78.94 acres located on the north side of Co.
1997- 10-13- Rd. 100 N, 0.25 mile east of Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
32    1997   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-
             Family Residential District (ZA-174/WA97-14).
      11-17- Douglas and Tamara Sue Orebaugh, Marion Township; 0.51 acre located on the southwest
97-39 1997   corner of S.R. 75 and U.S. Highway 36. Changed from the zoning classification of “C-1”,
             Neighborhood Commercial District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-179/MA97-02).
             Sanders Development Group, Inc., Washington Township; 10.95 acres located on the north
1997- 12-15- side of U.S. Highway 36, 0.33 mile east of Co. Rd. 900 E. Changed from the zoning
41    1997   classification of “R-5”, High Density, Multi-Family Residential District to “PUD”,
             Planned Unit Development District (ZA-180/WA97-16).
             The Bradford Group, Inc., Washington Township; 40 acres located on the east side of S.R.
1997- 12-15- 267, 0.50 mile south of Co. Rd. 150 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
42    1997   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District (ZA-182/WA97-18).
1998- 1-20-  The Lewis Group, Inc., Washington Township; 106 acres located on the southwest corner of
1     1998   Co. Rd. 800 S and Raceway Road. Changed from the zoning classification of “I-4”,
             Industrial Park District to “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District (ZA-178/WA97-15).
             John Urbahns, Washington Township; 56 acres located at the southeast corner S.R. 267 and
1998- 1-20-  Co. Rd. 150 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-
2     1998   Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District
             (ZA-184/WA98-01).
1998- 1-20-  Raceway Road, LLC, Washington Township; 12.80 acres located on the southwest corner of
3     1998   Raceway Road and U.S. Highway 36. Changed from the zoning classification of “SC”
             Shopping Center District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-185/WA98-02).
             Dale V. and Carole S. Fox, Guilford Township; 6.26 acres located on the south side of
1997- 2-17-  S.R. 267, 0.9 mile east of Co. Rd. 825 E (Indiana Road). Changed from the zoning
26    1998   classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”, Light
             Industrial District (ZA-166/GU97-03).
             Mark Van Valkenburg, Washington Township; 0.40 acre located on the southwest corner of
1998- 3-16-  U.S. Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 625 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
6     1998   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-
             186/WA98-03).
             Reece Fuehrer, Center Township; 1.42 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd. 200 E,
1998- 4-20-  0.50 mile north of U.S. Highway 36. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
7     1998   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-
             187/CE98-02).
             Cedar Run, Ltd., Washington Township; 196.27 acres located on the south side of Co. Rd.
1998- 4-20-  200 N and Raceway Road, 0.8 mile south of the intersection of Co. Rd. 200 N and Co. Rd.
8     1998   1050 E, north side of Co. Rd. 200 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
             Low Density, Single-Family Residential District and “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District (ZA-188/WA98-04).
             Donald Carlton, Middle Township; 1.004 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd. 425 E,
1998- 4-20-  0.50 mile north of Co. Rd. 225 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
9     1998   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-
             189/MI98-01).
             Mac Storage Company, Washington Township; 45.10 acres located on the west side of Co.
1998- 5-18-  Rd. 1050 E (Shiloh Road) and on the north side of Co. Rd. 100 N. Changed from the zoning
10    1998   classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “PUD”,
             Planned Unit Development District (ZA-190/WA98-05).
             Ryan Cottongim (et al.), Washington Township; 81 acres located on the north side of Co.
1998- 5-18-  Rd. 100 N, 0.28 mile west of Co. Rd. 600 E and on the west side of Co. Rd. 600 E, 0.39
11    1998   mile north of Co. Rd. 100 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
             Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District (ZA-191/WA98-06).
             Cedar Run Ltd., Guilford Township; 9.82 acres located at the northwest corner of Co. Rd.
1998- 5-18-  900 S (County Line Road) and the relocated Raceway Road. Changed from the zoning
12    1998   classification of “R-5”, High Density, Multi-Family Residential District to “PUD”,
             Planned Unit Development District (ZA-192/GU98-01).
             Cedar Run Ltd., Washington Township; 28.4 acres located on the north side of U.S.
1998- 5-18-  Highway 36, one mile east of Co. Rd. 500 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
14    1998   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-3”, Office Commercial
             District (ZA-194/WA98-07).
             Dan Laser, Washing Township; 2.73 acres located on the northwest corner of the
1998- 6-15-  intersection of U.S. Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 525 E. Changed from the zoning
15    1998   classification of “C-3”, Office Commercial District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District (ZA-195/WA98-08).
             Richard Rost, Guildford Township; 0.7 acre located at the southwest intersection of Co.
1998- 6-22-  Rd. 800 S and S.R. 67. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density,
13    1998   Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-193/GU98-
             02).
1998- 7-20-  The Lewis Group, Inc., Washington Township; 106 acres located on the southwest corner of
18    1998   Co. Rd. 100 S and Raceway Road. Changed to the zoning classification of “PUD”, Planned
             Unit Development District (ZA178/WA98-09).
             Charles D. Chandler, Lincoln Township; 1.025 acres located on the south side of U.S.
1998- 7-20-  Highway 136, 0.25 mile east of Co. Rd. 900 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
19    1998   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial
             District (ZA-197/LN98-01).
1998- 7-20-  Americom, LLC, Washington Township; 4.17 acres located on the south side of U.S. Highway
20    1998   36, 0.08 mile east of Co. Rd. 900 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “I-2”,
             Light Industrial District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-198/WA98-11).
             Hunter Agri-Sales, Inc., Franklin Township; one acre located on the southeast corner of
1998- 9-12-  U.S. Highway 40 and Co. Rd. 350 W. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
27    1998   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-
             201/FR98-01).
             William and Shirley Hawkins, Center Township; 5.81 acres located on the north side of
1998- 10-19- U.S. Highway 36, 0.21 mile west of Co. Rd. 200 W. Changed from the zoning classification
28    1998   of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial
             District (ZA-202/CE98-03).
1998- 10-19- The Lewis Group, Inc., Washington Township; 106 acres located at the southwest corner of
29    1998   Co. Rd. 100 S and Raceway Road. Changed from the zoning classification of “PUD”, Planned
             Unit Development District to “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District (ZA-178/WA98-13).
             Glen Broyles, Guilford Township; 51.53 acres located on the northwest corner of Gibbs
1998- 10-19- Road and Vestal Road. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density,
30    1998   Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential
             District (ZA-203/GU98-03).
             R.N. Thompson Development Corporation, Lincoln Township; 200 acres located on the
1998- 11-23- southwest quadrant of Co. Rd. 600 N and Raceway Road. Changed from the zoning
32    1998   classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “PUD”,
             Planned Unit Development District (ZA-204/LN98-03).
             Ridge Gate, Inc., Washington Township; 24 acres located on the west side of Co. Rd. 600
1998- 12-21- E, 0.25 mile north of Co. Rd. 100 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
33    1998   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District (ZA-205/WA98-14).
             Bridgewater Ltd., LLC, Washington Township; 30.1 acres located on the west side of S.R.
1998- 12-21- 267, 0.43 mile south of Co. Rd. 150 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
34    1998   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District (ZA-206/WA98-15).
             Eric D. Pierce, Marion Township; 10.10 acres located on the north side of U.S. Highway
1998- 12-21- 36, 0.13 mile west of S.R. 75. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
35    1998   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-
             208/MA98-01).
             Peggy Verhonik, Washington Township; three acres located on the west side of Co. Rd.
1999- 1-19-  1050 E, 0.13 mile north of Co. Rd. 200 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-
1     1999   1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District
             (ZA-209/WA98-16).
             Fonda Doane, Marion Township; 8.7 acres located on the north side of U.S. Highway 36,
1999- 1-19-  0.25 mile west of S.R. 75. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density,
2     1999   Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-210/MA98-
             02).
1999- 3-15-  David Bundy, Washington Township; 0.44 acre located on the southwest corner of U.S.
6     1999   Highway 36 and Shelton Drive. Changed from the zoning classification of “I-2”, Light
             Industrial District to “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-212/WA99-01).
             Rex E. Jones and Susan Alexander, Washington Township; 107.95 acres located just north
1999- 4-19-  and west of the intersection of Co. Rd. 100 S and Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the
8     1999   zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District and
             “R-4”, Medium Density, Multi-Family Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit
             Development District (ZA-213/WA99-02).
             Hoosier Horse Market, Inc., Union Township; 38 acres located on the north side of U.S.
1999- 4-19-  Highway 136, 0.75 mile west of Co. Rd. 100 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
9     1999   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial
             District (ZA-215/UN99-01).
             James R. and Shirley L. Limp, Washington Township; 4.927 acres located on the north side
1999- 4-19-  of U.S. Highway 36, 0.125 mile west of Co. Rd. 525 E. Changed from the zoning
10    1999   classification of “C-3”, Office Commercial District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District (ZA-216/WA99-03).
             Ronald C. and Michelle L. Lamb, Clay Township; 0.17 acre located in the Town of Amo, on
1999- 4-19-  the west side of Pearl Street, 170 feet north of Railroad Street (Lot 8, Block 1,
11    1999   Scherer’s First Additon; also known as 4946 North Pearl Street). Changed from the zoning
             classification of “C-1”, Neighborhood Commercial District to “R-4”, Medium Density,
             Multi-Family District (ZA-217/CL99-01).
             Cranfil Development Corporation, Brown Township; 121.97 acres located on the east side
1999- 5-17-  of S.R. 267 just south of the intersection of Co. Rd. 800 N. Changed from the zoning
12    1999   classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”,
             Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-214/BR99-01).
             Sanders Development, Inc., Washington Township; 188.81 acres located on southwest corner
             of north/south corridor and Co. Rd. 100 N, on the southeast corner of Co. Rd. 1050 E and
1999- 5-17-  Co. Rd. 100 N, on the east side of north/south corridor. Changed from the zoning
13    1999   classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District and “R-3”,
             High Density, Single-Family Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit Development
             District (ZA-218/WA99-04).
             Thomas I. Goode, Eel River Township; 8.65 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd. 775
1999- 5-27-  W, 0.15 mile south of Co. Rd. 800 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1",
15    1999   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District and “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District to “I-3”, Heavy Industrial District (ZA-219/ER99-01).
             Evans/Lux Raceway, LLC, Washington Township; two acres located on the west side of
1999- 7-19-  Raceway Road, 0.12 mile south of Co. Rd. 100 N. Changed from the zoning classification
20    1999   of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District (ZA-222/WA99-05).
             Indiana Waste Systems, Inc., Center Township; 0.25 acre located on the east side of Co.
1999- 8-16-  Rd. 150 E, 0.25 mile south of Co. Rd. 75 S. Changed from the zoning classification of
21    1999   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-4”, Industrial Park
             District (ZA-223/CE99-01).
             Lando Jay Warren, Middle Township; nine acres located on the north side of Co. Rd. 1000
1999- 9-17-  N, 0.40 mile east of Co. Rd. 500 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
23    1999   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-3”, Heavy Industrial District (ZA-224/
             MI99-01).
             Robert A. Skipper, Lincoln Township; 1.08 acres located on the north side of U.S.
1999- 10-18- Highway 136, 0.23 mile west of Raceway Road. Changed from the zoning classification of
26    1999   “C-2”, General Commercial District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-226/LN99-
             02).
             Thomas Prince, Liberty Township; 0.02 acre located on the east side of Co. Rd. “0", 0.25
1999- 10-18- mile south of Co. Rd. 1000 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
27    1999   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-227/
             LB99-01).
             West 56th Street, Lincoln Township; 340 acres located on the north and south side of Co.
99-   1-18-  Rd. 650 N, 0.50 mile west of Raceway Road. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-
29A   2000   1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit Development
             District (ZA-228/LN99-03).
             Richfield Group, Ltd., Washington Township; 20.48 acres located on the east side of Co.
2000- 1-18-  Rd. 625 E, between Co. Rd. 200 S and Co. Rd. 300 S. Changed from the zoning
002   2000   classification of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”,
             Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District (ZA-230/WA99-07).
             Kevin Sturgeon, Guilford Township; 3.469 acres located on the northeast corner of Co.
2000- 1-18-  Rd. 725 E and I-70. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density,
003   2000   Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-229/GU99-
             03).
             Partlow Group, LP, Lincoln Township; 70 acres located on the northwest corner of the
2000- 3-20-  intersection of Co. Rd. 1000 E and Co. Rd. 300 N. Changed from the zoning classification
08    2000   of “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial
             District (ZA-232/LN00-01).
             Clyde and Christine Orr, Center Township; 1.452 acres located on the southwest corner of
2000- 4-17-  Co. Rd. 400 E and U.S. Highway 36 (East Main Street, Danville). Changed from the zoning
010   2000   classification of “I-2”, Light Industrial District to “C-2”, General Commercial District
             (ZA-233/CE00-01).
             Speedway Body Shop, Lincoln Township; 0.59 acre located on the south side of U.S.
2000- 6-26-  Highway 136, 0.10 mile east of Co. Rd. 900 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
012   2000   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial
             District (ZA-236/LN00-04).
             Jerry Vornholt, Washington Township; 3.88 acres located on the northwest corner of
2000- 7-17-  Raceway Road and Co. Rd. 100 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
015   2000   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-1”, Neighborhood Commercial District
             (ZA-237/WA00-02).
             JLL, LLC, Guilford Township; 100.13 acres located on the west side of Co. Rd. 600 E, 0.5
2000- 8-21-  mile north of Co. Rd. 750 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
017   2000   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District (ZA-238/GU00-01).
2000- 9-11-  Includes the property owned by Betty Young, removes the property owned by Maureen
19    2000   Alexander. Area bordered on the south by Co. Rd. 100 N and on the north by Co. Rd. 200 N
             (north/south corridor); a PUD/Residential/Com mercial classification (ZA-241/HC00-01).
2000- 9-18-  Hession Enterprises, Ltd.; Hession Farms, Inc.; Daniel B. Hession; Andre B. Lacey (et
19    2000   al.) North/south corridor (ZA-241/HC00-01).
             R&R Products, Inc., Union Township; 1.068 acres located on the west side of S.R. 39,
2000- 9-18-  0.50 mile south of Co. Rd. 800 N (7502 North State Road 39, Lizton). Changed from the
20    2000   zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to
             “C-2”, General Commercial District (ZA-242/UN00-01).
             Midland Co-Op, Inc., Union Township; 1.56 acres located on the north side of Conrail
2000- 9-18-  Railroad, just west of the Lizton town boundary, 0.10 mile west of Lebanon Street.
21    2000   Changed from the zoning classification of “I-2”, Light Industrial District to “I-3”,
             Heavy Industrial District (ZA-243/UN00-02).
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Donald M. Stafford, Lincoln Township; 144 acres located on the west side of Raceway Road
2000- 10-2-  and on the north side of U.S. Highway 136. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-
22    2000   1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit Development
             District (ZA-234-LN00-02).
             JLL, LLC, Guilford Township; 100.13 acres located on the west side of Co. Rd. 600 E, 0.5
2000- 10-2-  mile north of Co. Rd. 750 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
23    2000   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District (ZA-238/GU00-01).
             Tammie Davenport, Center Township; seven acres, located on the east side of Co. Rd. 150
2000- 10-16- E, 0.50 mile north of Co. Rd. 200 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
24    2000   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “I-4”, Industrial Park District (ZA-
             244/CE00-020).
             Cal-Cait, LLC, Guilford Township; 5.401 acres located on the south side of S.R. 267,
2000- 10-16- 0.06 mile west of Co. Rd. 825 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-2”, Medium
25    2000   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District and
             “I-2”, Light Industrial District (ZA-247/GU00-03).
             James and Jamie Hignite, Guilford Township; 0.31 acre located on the west side of Co.
2000- 11-20- Rd. 825 E, 0.33 mile north of Hendricks County Road. Changed from the zoning
27    2000   classification of “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-2”,
             General Commercial District (ZA-246/GU00-02).
             Madeline Carter, Washington Township; 28.551 acres located on the northwest corner of
2000- 11-27- Co. Rd. 1050 E and Co. Rd. 100 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
28    2000   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District
             (ZA-248/WA00-05).
             Larry Miller and Gary Houser, Jr., Center Township; 1.73 acres located on the southeast
2000- 12-26- corner of East Main Street (Old U.S. Highway 36), and Co. Rd. 300 E. Changed from the
29    2000   zoning classification of “I-1”, Research/Office Industrial District to “C-2”, General
             Commercial District (ZA-251/CE00-03).
             Prestwick Development, LLC, Washington Township; 33.44 acres located on the east side of
             Co. Rd. 400 E, on the northeast corner of Co. Rd. 100 S and Co. Rd. 450 E, and on the
2001- 2-20-  west side of Co. Rd. 525 E and Co. Rd. 100 S. Changed from the zoning classification of
02    2001   “R-1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District, “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-
             Family Residential District and “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District to “PUD”,
             Planned Unit Development District (ZA-250/WA00-06).
             Ron Tefteller, Liberty Township; 0.03 acre located on the south side of Kentucky Street,
2001- 2-20-  east of Iowa Street (37 Kentucky Street). Changed from the zoning classification of “C-
03    2001   2”, General Commercial District to “R-5”, High Density, Multi-Family Residential
             District (ZA-253/LB01-01).
             Jarvis Enterprises, LLC, Washington Township; 0.873 acre located on the south side of
2001- 4-16-  U.S. Highway 36, 0.25 mile west of Co. Rd. 900 E. Changed from the zoning classification
04    2001   of “I-2”, Light Industrial District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-254/WA01-
             01).
2001- 6-4-   Michael A. Trapp, Lincoln Township; 0.27 acre located on the north side of U.S. Highway
05    2001   136, 0.27 mile west of Raceway Road. Changed from the zoning classification of “C-2”,
             General Commercial District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-260/LN01-01).
             Bob Stephenson, Liberty Township; 7.40 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd. “0”,
2001- 6-18-  0.10 mile north of U.S. Highway 40. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
06    2001   Density, Single-Family Residential District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-
             259/LB01-02).
             Michael A. Schaefer, Washington Township; 133 acres located on the north side of Co. Rd.
2001- 6-18-  200 N, 0.13 mile west of Co. Rd. 800 E, and on the west side of Co. Rd. 800 E, 0.15 mile
07    2001   north of Co. Rd. 200 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low Density,
             Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family Residential
             District (ZA-262/WA01-04).
             Urbahns Companies, Inc., Washington Township; 46.30 acres located on the north side of
             U.S. Highway 36, 0.10 mile east of Co. Rd. 900 E, and on the east side of Co. Rd. 900 E,
2001- 8-6-   0.6 mile north of U.S. Highway 36. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”, Low
09    2001   Density, Single-Family Residential District, and “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District to “C-2”, General Commercial District and “R-4”, Medium Density,
             Multi-Family Residential District (ZA-261/WA01-03).
2001- 9-4-   Darrell Roberts, Washington Township; 6.51 acres located on the south side of U.S.
11    2001   Highway 36, 0.17 mile east of Gable Drive. Changed from the zoning classification of “I-
             2”, Light Industrial District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-263/WA01-05).
             C.P. Morgan Communities, LP, Lincoln Township; 80 acres located on the southeast corner
2001- 9-4-   of Co. Rd. 650 N and Co. Rd. 1000 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
12    2001   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit Development
             District (ZA-268/LN01-02).
             Marvin and Madge Wood, Washington Township; nine acres located on the south side of East
2001- 11-5-  Main Street, southeast corner of East Main Street and Co. Rd. 525 E. Changed from the
20    2001   zoning classification of “C-3”, Office Commercial District to “C-2”, General Commercial
             District (ZA-266/WA01-07).
             Michael A. Schaefer, Washington Township; six acres located on the north side of Co. Rd.
2001- 11-5-  200 N, 0.50 mile west of Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-1”,
21    2001   Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-Family
             Residential District (ZA-270/WA01-10).
             Michael A. Schaefer, Washington Township; one acre located on the west side of Co. Rd.
2001- 11-5-  800 E, 0.50 mile north of Co. Rd. 200 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-
22    2001   1”, Low Density, Single-Family Residential District to “R-2”, Medium Density, Single-
             Family Residential District (ZA-271/WA01-11).
2001- 11-5-  Wesley Link, Washington Township; 1.83 acres located on the southeast corner of U.S.
23    2001   Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 900 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “I-2”, Light
             Industrial District to “C-4”, Highway Commercial District (ZA-272/WA01-12).
2002- 1-7-   Herschel and Nancy Kirk, Washington Township; 1.5 acres located on the southeast corner
01    2002   of U.S. Highway 36 and Shelton Drive. Changed from the zoning classification of “WI”,
             Wholesale Industrial District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA-264/WA01-06).
             Republic Development Co., Washington Township; 118.4 acres located on the north side of
2002- 1-7-   Co. Rd. 200 N, 0.50 mile east of Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning classification
02    2002   of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “R-B”, Single-Family (12,500)
             Residential District (ZA-267/WA01-08).
             Dale A. Bunch, Eel River Township; 27.31 acres located on the north side of S.R. 236,
2002- 5-6-   0.40 mile east of Co. Rd. 550 W. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-A”,
09    2002   Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “AG-B”, Agricultural Business District
             (ZA-277/ER02-01).
             Bradley G. and Carla Gregory, Center Township; 0.77 acre located on the north side of
2002- 5-6-   East Main Street, 0.39 mile east of Co. Rd. 300 E. Changed from the zoning
10    2002   classification of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “GB”, General
             Business District (ZA-279/CE02-01).
             Bryan and Vickie Coleman, Union Township; 20 acres located on the north side of Co. Rd.
2002- 5-6-   625 N, 0.50 mile west of S.R. 39. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-A”,
11    2002   Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “AG-B”, Agricultural Business District
             (ZA-280/UN02-02).
2002- 7-22-  Margaret and Larry Scott, Brown Township; 3.11 acres located on the southwest corner of
30    2002   Co. Rd. 700 N and S.R. 267. Changed from the zoning classification of “OB”, Office
             Business District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA-283/BR02-02).
             Arborwood Pointe, LLC, Washington Township; 27 acres located on the north side of Co.
2002- 8-12-  Rd. 100 N and on the west side of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning classification
33    2002   of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “GB”, General Business District
             (ZA-284/WA02-03).
             Urbahn’s Companies, Inc., Washington Township; 138.65 acres located on the south side of
2002- 9-3-   Co. Rd. 200 N, 0.25 mile east of Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning classification
34    2002   of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “R-B”, Single-Family (12,500)
             Residential District (ZA-281/WA02-02).
             Clarian Health Partners, Inc., Washington Township; 0.89 acre located on the northwest
2002- 10-7-  corner of the intersection of Co. Rd. 100 N and Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning
37    2002   classification of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “GB”, General
             Business District (ZA- 286/WA02-02).
             Matthew A. Burkert, Center Township; five acres located on the south side of Co. Rd. 75
2002- 10-7-  S, 0.10 mile west of Co. Rd. 200 W. Changed from the zoning classification of “MI”,
38    2002   Major Industrial District to “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District (ZA-285/
             CE02-02).
             Larry and Nancy Martin, Center Township; 1.48 acres located on the south side of East
2002- 10-7-  Main Street (Old U.S. Highway 36), 0.50 mile east of Co. Rd. 200 E. Changed from the
39    2002   zoning classification of “RDD”, Research and Development District to “RSS”, Regional
             Support Services District (ZA-287/CE02-03).
             Omnipoint Holdings, Inc., Brown Township; one acre located on the south side of Maloney
2002- 11-18- Road, 0.25 mile east of Co. Rd. 925 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-A”,
44    2002   Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “AG-B”, Agricultural Business District
             (ZA-290/BR02-05).
             Thomas and Patricia Prince, Liberty Township; 0.009 acre located on the east side of Co.
2002- 12-23- Rd. “0”, 0.28 mile south of Co. Rd. 1000 S. Changed from the zoning classification of
48    2002   “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “MI”, Major Industrial District
             (ZA-292/LB02-01).
2003- 2-4-   P.J. Donovan, Lincoln Township; 2.36 acres located on the west side of Co. Rd. 900 E,
05    2003   0.05 mile U.S. Highway 136. Changed from the zoning classification of “WI”, Wholesale
             Industrial District to “RSS”, Regional Support Services District (ZA-294/LN03-01).
             Cedar Run, Ltd., Inc., Washington Township; 358 acres bounded by Co. Rd. 200 S, Co. Rd.
2003- 4-22-  800 E, Co. Rd. 300 S, and Clark’s Creek. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-
09    2003   A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “PUD” Planned Unit Development
             District (ZA-293/WA03-01).
             Bay Development Corporation, Washington Township; 124 acres located on the west side of
2003- 6-3-   Co. Rd. 625 E, 0.25 mile south of Co. Rd. 100 S. Changed from the zoning classification
11    2003   of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District and “R-B”, Single-Family (12,500)
             Residential District to “R-B”, Single-Family (12,500) Residential District (ZA-299/WA03-
             04).
             J.R. Lazaro Builders, Inc., Washington Township; 58.67 acres located on the southeast
2003- 7-8-   corner of the intersection of Co. Rd. 100 N and Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning
14    2003   classification of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “R-B”, Single-
             Family (12,500) Residential District (ZA-301/WA03-06).
             Evans/Lux Raceway, LLC, Washington Township; 10.68 acres located on the south side of
2003- 8-5-   Co. Rd. 100 N, 0.05 mile west of Raceway Road. Changed from the zoning classification of
12    2003   “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “GB”, General Business District
             (ZA-297/WA03-02).
             Estridge Development Company, Inc., Brown Township; 72.5 acres located on the east side
2003- 8-5-   of S.R. 267, between Co. Rd. 800 N and Co. Rd. 900 N (Old Brownsburg Golf Course).
17    2003   Changed from the zoning classification of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential
             District to “PUD” Planned Unit Development District (ZA-302/BR03-02).
             Harold L. Frye, Washington Township; 0.35 acre located at the intersection of Gable
2003- 10-28- Drive and U.S. Highway 36, 0.76 mile west of Co. Rd. 1050 E (84 Gable Drive, Avon,
19    2003   Indiana). Changed from the zoning classification of “WI”, Wholesale Industrial District
             to “GB”, General Business District (ZA-304/WA03-08).
             Jim W. Davis, Liberty Township; 4.04 acres located on the north side of S.R. 39, 0.38
2003- 12-1-  mile north of the town of Bellevelle. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-A”,
21    2003   Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “RSS”, Regional Support Services District
             (ZA-303/LB03-01).
             Platinum Properties, LLC, Washington/Lincoln Township; 524 acres located along the east
2004- 1-13-  side of Co. Rd. 800 E from Co. Rd. 300 N and south 1.50 miles and along the west side of
01    2004   Co. Rd. 800 E, 0.50 mile south of Co. Rd. 300 N. Changed from the zoning classification
             of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “PUD” Planned Unit Development
             District (ZA-300/WA03-05/LN 03-02).
             Hendricks County Recycling, Liberty Township; 10.01 acres located on the north side of
2004- 2-3-   U.S. Highway 40, 0.50 mile west of Cartersburg Road. Changed from the zoning
06    2004   classification of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “RSS”, Regional
             Support Services District (ZA-307/LB03-02).
             C.P. Morgan Communities, LP, Brown Township; 224.64 acres located on the northeast
2004- 2-3-   corner of the intersection of Co. Rd. 650 N and Co. Rd. 1000 E. Changed from the zoning
07    2004   classification of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “PUD” Planned
             Unit Development District (ZA-309/BR03-03).
             Ross A. and Joyce A. McClain, Brown Township; 4.26 acres located at the northeast corner
2004- 2-3-   of the intersection of Co. Rd. 700 N and Co. Rd. 900 E. Changed from the zoning
08    2004   classification of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “AG-B”,
             Agricultural Business District (ZA- 310/BR03-04).
             James Penner, Liberty Township; five acres located on the east side of Co. Rd. “0”, 0.50
2004- 5-11-  mile south of the town of Clayton. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-A”,
30    2004   Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “RSS”, Regional Support Services District
             (ZA-308/LB03-03).
             Heritage Hill, Lincoln Township; 242.017 acres located on the west side of S.R. 267
2004- 5-11-  between Co. Rd. 200 N and Co. Rd. 300 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-
21    2004   A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “PUD” Planned Unit Development
             District (ZA-305/LN03-02).
             Helton Properties, LLC, Franklin Township; 36.165 acres located on the south side of
2004- 6-1-   U.S. Highway 40, 0.26 mile west of Co. Rd. 400 W. Changed from the zoning classification
24    2004   of “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to “MI”, Major Industrial District
             (ZA-314/FR04-01).
             Washington Township Commercial/Industrial PUD, Washington Township; 1,072 acres located
2004- 7-6-   south of Co. Rd. 100 S, north of Co. Rd. 200 S, west of Co. Rd. 1050 E, east of Co. Rd.
26    2004   900 E, and 0.50 mile west of Co. Rd. 900 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “R-A”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District to Commercial/Industrial “PUD”,
             Planned Unit Development District. (ZA-311/WA04-01).
             Roy and Ruth Hampton, Franklin Township; 0.20 acre located on the northeast corner of
2004- 7-20-  U.S. Highway 40 and Harrison Street in the town of Stilesville. Changed from the zoning
28    2004   classification of “GB”, General Business District to “R-B”, Single-Family (12,500)
             Residential District (ZA-316/FR04-01).
             David B. Klain, Lincoln Township; 11.51 acres located on the west side of County Line
2004- 9-28-  Road, 0.25 mile north of U.S. Highway 136. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-
32    2004   A”, Single-Family (20,000) Residential District to “R-F”, Multi-Family Residential
             District (ZA-313/LN04-01).
             Deborah Ellis, Washington Township; one acre located on the south side of East Main
2004- 9-28-  Street, 0.06 mile west of Co. Rd. 500 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-
33    2004   A”, Single-Family (20,000) Residential District to “NB”, Neighborhood Business District
             (ZA-318/WA04-02).
             Cingular Wireless, LLC, Eel River Township; one acre located at 418 South McKinley
2004- 11-1-  Street in the town of North Salem. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-B”,
34    2004   Single-Family (12,500) Residential District to “AG-B”, Agricultural Business District
             (ZA-319/ER04-01).
             Rolling Hills, LLC, Washington Township; 33.96 acres located 0.50 mile north of Co. Rd.
2004- 11-1-  200 N between S.R. 267 and Co. Rd. 600 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-
35    2004   A”, Single-Family (20,000) Residential District to “R-AA”, Single-Family (15,000)
             Residential District (ZA-321/04).
2004- 11-16- Cingular Wireless, LLC, Liberty Township; one acre located on north side of Co. Rd. 400
37    2004   S, just east of S.R. 39. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-A”, Single-Family
             (20,000) Residential District to “AG-B”, Agricultural Business District (ZA-322/04).
             Parks at Prestwick, Washington Township; 32 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd.
2004- 11-23- 400 E, 0.05 mile south of U.S. Highway 36. Changed from the zoning classification of “R-
38    2004   A”, Single-Family (20,000) Residential District to “PUD” Planned Unit Development
             District (ZA-250/04).
             Gregory and Nancy A. Elliff, Washington Township; 8.18 acres located on the north side
2005- 2-15-  of East Main Street, 0.19 mile west of Co. Rd. 500 E. Changed from the zoning
03    2005   classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “GB”, General Business District
             (ZA-320/04).
             WCC Equity Partners, LLC, and Wynne Farms, Washington Township; 14.15 acres located on
2005- 2-15-  the west side of Co. Rd. 800 E, 0.50 mile north of Co. Rd. 200 N. Changed from the
04    2005   zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District, “RB”, Single-Family (12,500)
             Residential District, and “PUD” Planned Unit Development District to “RE”, Multi-Family
             (6) Residential District and “GB”, General Business District (ZA-325/04, PUD-28/04).
             Windchase, LLC, Brown Township; 62 acres located on the west side of County Line Road
2005- 3-15-  (Raceway Road) between Co. Rd. 650 N and Co. Rd. 700 N. Changed from the zoning
05    2005   classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “RAA”, Single-Family (15,000)
             Residential District (ZA-328/05).
             Ricky Parr (ERS Telecom), Center Township; 8.24 acres located on the north side of U.S.
2005- 3-15-  Highway 236, 0.23 mile northeast along an existing access drive. Changed from the zoning
06    2005   classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “AGB”, Agricultural Business
             District (ZA-330/05).
2005- 3-15-  Steven and Tamara Baker, Washington Township; 4.84 acres located on the west side of
7     2005   Raceway Road, 0.24 mile south of Co. Rd. 100 N. Changed from the zoning classification
             of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA-331/05).
             Platinum Properties, LLC, Center/Washington Township; 207.9 acres located on the north
2005- 4-5-   side of Old U.S. Highway 36, between Co. Rd. 300 E and Co. Rd. 450 E. Changed from the
08    2005   zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “PUD” Planned Unit
             Development District (ZA-326/05).
2005- 4-19-  Cingular Wireless, LLC, Clay Township; one acre located at 5114 south of Co. Rd. 650 W,
10A   2005   Coatesville. Changed from the zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District
             to “AGB”, Agricultural Business District (ZA 332/05).
             Charles J. Damler, III, Lincoln Township; 65.68 acres located on the north and south
2005- 4-19-  side of Co. Rd. 350 N, 0.50 mile west of S.R. 267. Changed from the zoning
11    2005   classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “AGB”, Agricultural Business
             District (ZA 333/05).
2005- 4-26-  Timmy J. Shrout, Washington Township; 10.191 acres located on the south side of Co. Rd.
12    2005   100 S, 0.06 mile west of Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “RA”,
             Rural Residential District to “RSS” Region Support Services District (ZA 336/05).
             Heritage Development of Indiana, LLC, Washington Township; 27.931 acres located on the
2005- 4-26-  north side of Co. Rd. 300 S, between S.R. 267 and Co. Rd. 625 E. Changed from the zoning
14    2005   classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District and “RB”, Single-Family (12,500)
             Residential District to “RAA”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District (ZA 337/05).
2005- 4-26-  Country Tyme, Brown Township; 20.54 acres located on the west side of S.R. 267, north of
15    2005   Co. Rd. 900 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential
             District to “RAA”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District (ZA 338/05).
2005- 5-24-  Lacey Lawncare & Landscaping, Brown Township; 5.04 acres located on the north side of
19    2005   Maloney Road, east of Co. Rd. 925 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “RA”,
             Rural Residential District to “AGB”, Agricultural Business District (ZA 335/05).
2005- 5-24-  Staci Long and Mark Cooper, Liberty Township; 5.714 acres located on the south side of
20    2005   U.S. Highway 40, 0.38 mile west of Co. Rd. 100 W. Changed from the zoning classification
             of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “NB”, Neighborhood Business District (ZA 340/05).
             Paul S. and Susan D. Johnson, Center Township; 20.439 acres located on the south side of
2005- 5-24-  Co. Rd. 50 S, 0.20 mile west of Co. Rd. 200 W. Changed from the zoning classification of
23    2005   “RA”, Rural Residential District to “RAA”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District
             (ZA 344/05).
             Development Managers Corporation, Union Township; 6.34 acres located on the west side of
2005- 8-9-   S.R. 39, 0.50 mile south of Co. Rd. 800 N. Changed from the zoning classification of
27    2005   “RB”, Single-Family (12,500) Residential District and “GB”, General Business District to
             “OB”, Office Business District (ZA 343/05).
2005- 8-9-   Elite Property, Inc., Liberty Township; 1.81 acres located on the south side of U.S.
28    2005   Highway 40, 0.38 mile west of Co. Rd. 100 W. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “RA”, Rural Residential District to “NB”, Neighborhood Business District (ZA 345/05).
             John Shelton, Lincoln Township; 12 acres located on the west side of Raceway Road and
2005- 8-9-   the north side of U.S. Highway 136, 0.04 mile from the intersection of Raceway Road and
29    2005   U.S. Highway 136. Changed from the zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential
             District and “GB”, General Business District to “RA”, Rural Residential District, “GB”,
             General Business District, and “WI”, Wholesale Industrial District (ZA 346/05).
             Jerry and Linda Smith, Franklin Township; 0.53 acre located on the northwest corner of
2005- 8-16-  Co. Rd. 550 W and U.S. Highway 40, being a part of Lot 94 and all of Lot 95 in Wilcox’s
30    2005   Addition to the town of Stilesville. Changed from the zoning classification of “GB”,
             General Business District to “OTC”, Old Town Center District (ZA 347/05).
             DS Development, LLC, Washington Township; 10.40 acres located at the northwest corner of
2005- 8-23-  Co. Rd. 100 N and Raceway Road. Changed from the zoning classification of “PUD” Planned
32    2005   Unit Development District to “PUD” Planned Unit Development District (amended
             development standards; ZA 153/05).
             Ascension Properties, LLC, Washington Township; 3.54 acres located at the southwest
2005- 9-27-  corner of the intersection of Co. Rd. 100 N and S.R. 267 (Lots 5-8 Teresa Acres).
33    2005   Changed from the zoning classification of “RB”, Single-Family (12,500) Residential
             District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 349/05).
             H&M Development, Washington Township; 10.48 acres located at the southeast corner of the
2005- 9-27-  intersection of U.S. Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 525 E. Changed from the zoning
36    2005   classification of “OB”, Office Business District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA
             351/05).
             Avon Health Care Management, Washington Township; 1.66 acres located on the east side of
2005- 9-27-  Co. Rd. 400 E, between Old U.S. Highway 36 and New U.S. Highway 36 (commonly known as
37    2005   227 south of Co. Rd. 400 E). Changed from the zoning classification of “RA”, Rural
             Residential District to “RAA”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District (ZA 352/05).
             Falcon Properties, LLC, Washington Township; 104 acres located at the northeast corner
2005- 10-25- of the intersection of Co. Rd. 200 S and Co. Rd. 525 E. Changed from the zoning
39    2005   classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “RAA”, Single-Family (15,000)
             Residential District (ZA 334/05).
            
             Hamilton Property Development, LLC, Brown Township; 78.51 acres located on the west side
2005- 11-22- of Co. Rd. 650 E, 0.26 mile north of Co. Rd. 1000 N. Changed from the zoning
43    2005   classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “RAA”, Single-Family (15,000)
             Residential District (ZA 353/05).
             Lawrence P. Wynne, Lincoln Township; 40.90 acres located on the west side of Co. Rd. 575
2005- 11-22- E, 0.25 mile north of Co. Rd. 250 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “RA”,
44    2005   Rural Residential District to “RAA”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District (ZA
             354/05).
             Jessica M. Rogers, Liberty Township; 17.65 acres located on the north side of Co. Rd.
2005- 11-22- 600 S, 0.37 mile west of Co. Rd. 400 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “RA”,
45    2005   Rural Residential District to “RAA”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District (ZA
             355/05).
2005- 12-20- SCS, LLC, Liberty Township; 351.02 acres located at the northeast quadrant of the
47    2005   intersection of S.R. 39 and I-70. Changed from the zoning classification of “HB”,
             Highway Business District to “RSS”, Regional Support Services District (ZA 356/05).
2006- 1-24-  Richard and Beverly Bowen, Franklin Township; one acre located on the southwest side of
01    2006   Masten Road, 0.80 mile south of Co. Rd. 700 S. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “RA”, Rural Residential District to “AGB”, Agricultural Business District (ZA 359/06).
             Reese Central Wholesale, Inc., Center Township; 15.96 acres located at the southeast
2006- 5-3-   quadrant of the intersection of U.S. Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 300 E, 0.06 mile south of
07    2006   the railroad. Changed from the zoning classification of “WI”, Wholesale Industrial
             District to “RSS”, Regional Support Services District (ZA 360/06).
             Portrait Homes, Oxford Park, LLC, Washington Township; 2.08 acres located on the west
2006- 5-23-  side of Co. Rd. 525 E and south of Co. Rd. 100 S. Changed from the zoning classification
08    2006   of “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District to an amended “PUD”, Planned Unit
             Development District (ZA 350/06, PUD 20).
             West 56th Street, LLC, Lincoln Township; 8.61 acres located at the northwest quadrant of
2006- 6-13-  the intersection of Co. Rd. 600 N and Co. Rd. 1000 E (commonly known as 6175 north of
10    2006   Co. Rd. 1000 E). Changed from the zoning classification of “PUD”, Planned Unit
             Development District to “NB”, Neighborhood Business District (ZA 364/06).
             Airport Development District Zoning, Center Township; 2,300 acres located south of U.S.
2006- 6-27-  Highway 36 between Co. Rd. 150 E and Co. Rd. 400 E, 0.25 mile of Co. Rd. 200 S. Changed
12    2006   from the zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “AD”, Airport
             Development District (ZA 367/06).
             Francis Ontiveros, Liberty Township; 24.49 acres located on the north side of U.S.
2006- 6-27-  Highway 40, half way between Co. Rd. 200 W and Co. Rd. 100 W. Changed from the zoning
13    2006   classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “AGB”, Agricultural Business
             District (ZA 362/06).
             Observatory Gardens, L.P., Brown Township; 142.07 acres located on the south side of Co.
2006- 6-27-  Rd. 900 N, 0.50 mile west of the intersection of S.R. 267. Changed from the zoning
14    2006   classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “RAA”, Single-Family (15,000)
             Residential District (ZA 365/06).
             Nicholas Brothers Farms, LLC, Washington Township; 20.04 acres located 0.12 mile north
2006- 9-26-  of the intersection of Co. Rd. 251 S and Co. Rd. 625 E, across from the Cedar Bend
22    2006   Subdivision. Changed from the zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District
             to “RAA”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District (ZA 369/06).
2006- 10-24- Cedar Run Ltd., Inc., Guilford Township; 5.115 acres located on the south side of Co.
24    2006   Rd. 800 S, between Raceway Road and S.R. 67. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “RA”, Rural Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 370/06).
             Sanders Development Group, Liberty Township; 896.89 acres located west of S.R. 39 on the
2006- 10-24- north side of Co. Rd. 1000 S, between S.R. 39 and Co. Rd. 100 R, and south of Co. Rd.
25    2006   1000 S on the east and west sides of Co. Rd. 100 E. Changed from the zoning
             classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District and “HB”, Highway Business District
             to “RSS”, Regional Support Services District (ZA 371/06).
             Platinum Properties, LLC, Lincoln Township; 224.65 acres, located on the east side of
2006- 11-28- S.R. 267 and on the south and north sides of Co. Rd. 300 N. Changed from the zoning
26    2006   classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit Development
             District (ZA 366/06).
             Gerard Mason, Center Township; 20.01 acres located on the north side of Co. Rd. 200 N,
2006- 11-28- 0.50 mile east of the intersection of Co. Rd. 100 E (commonly known as 1490 East Co. Rd.
27    2006   200 N). Changed from the zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to
             “RAA”, Single-Family (15,000) Residential District (ZA 373/06).
             9093 S.R. 39, LLC, Liberty Township; 10.95 acres located on the east side of S.R. 39 at
2006- 11-28- the southeast quadrant of the intersection of Co. Rd. 900 S (commonly known as 9093
28    2006   South S.R. 39). Changed from the zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential
             District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 374/06).
             Josh and Christy R. Abdnour, Brown Township; 27.32 acres located on the north side of
2006- 12-19- Co. Rd. 700 N at the intersection with Co. Rd. 625 E, south of I-74. Changed from the
32    2006   zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “RSS”, Regional Support
             Services District (ZA 375/06).
             Maurice and Sandra J. Wells, Liberty Township; 24.23 acres located at the southwest
2006- 12-19- quadrant of the intersection of Co. Rd. 1000 S and Co. Rd. 100 E. Changed from the
33    2006   zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “RSS”, Regional Support
             Services District (ZA 377/06).
             The Lewis Group, Brown Township; 324 acres located on the north and south sides of Co.
2007- 1-2-   Rd. 1000 N between Co. Rd. 900 E and Co. Rd. 1075 E. Changed from the zoning
01    2007   classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit Development
             District (ZA 376/06).
             Payne, LLC, Lincoln Township; 4.95 acres, located on the north side of U.S. Highway 136,
2007- 4-17-  0.21 mile west of Raceway Road (more commonly known as 10830 East U.S. Highway 136).
07    2007   Changed from the zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District and “GB”,
             General Business District to “RSS”, Regional Support Services District (ZA 378/07).
             Access Self-Storage of Heartland Crossings, LLC (Cedar Run Ltd.), Guilford Township;
2007- 5-22-  24.419 acres located at the southeast corner of Union Mills Road and Prosperity Circle
08    2007   (commonly known as 8969 Union Mills Road, Cambay, Indiana). Changed from the zoning
             classification of “GB”, General Business District to “RSS”, Regional Support Services
             District (ZA 379/07).
             Rolling Hills, LLC, Lincoln Township; 24.757 acres located on the west side of S.R. 267,
2007- 6-26-  0.25 mile south of Co. Rd. 300 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “PUD”,
14    2007   Planned Unit Development District to an amended “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District
             (ZA 305/07, PUD 29).
             E.J. (Bill) Simpson, Lincoln Township; 20.78 acres located on the northeast side of
2007- 6-26-  intersection U.S. Highway 136 and Co. Rd. 1025 E. Changed from the zoning classification
15    2007   of “RA”, Rural Residential District and “GB”, General Business District to “RSS”,
             Regional Support Services District (ZA 380/07).
2007- 6-26-  Jason M. Hargrave, Liberty Township; 0.19 acre located at 4945 Iowa Street in the town
16    2007   of Clayton, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “RDD”, Research and
             Development District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 381/07).
             Platinum Properties, LLC, Lincoln Township; 18.6 acres located at the northwest quadrant
2007- 7-24-  of Co. Rd. 800 E and Northfield Drive, internal to the Wynne Farms PUD development.
20    2007   Changed from the zoning classification of “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District to an
             amended “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District (ZA 300/07; PUD 28, Wynne Farms).
2007- 8-28-  Denney Excavating, Inc., Center Township; 10.16 acres located on the west side of Co.
22    2007   Rd. 225 E, 0.11 mile south of Co. Rd. 150 S. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “WI”, Wholesale Industrial District to “AD”, Airport Development District (ZA 383/07).
             Civil Designs, LLP, Guilford Township; 2.92 acres located at the northeast corner of Co.
2007- 9-18-  Rd. 1025 E and Leases Corner Circle (commonly known as Lot 77, Heartland Crossing
23    2007   Business Park). Changed from the zoning classification of “GB”, General Business
             District to “WI”, Wholesale Industrial District (ZA 384/07).
             Cables for Less, LLC, Liberty Township; 10.95 acres located at the southeast quadrant of
2007- 12-18- the intersection of Co. Rd. 900 S and S.R. 39. Changed from the zoning classification of
32    2007   “GB”, General Business District to “RSS”, Regional Support Services District (ZA 388/
             07).
             Mes Properties, Liberty Township; 175.28 acres located on the north side of the county
2008- 1-22-  line, south of I-70, on the east and west sides of Co. Rd. 100 E at 830 and 1454 East
1     2008   Hendricks County Road, 10714 West Co. Rd. 100 E and 10899 South Co. Rd. 100 E. Changed
             from the zoning classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “MI”, Major
             Industrial District (ZA 387/07).
             The Village of Heritage Hill, Lincoln Township; 242 acres located 0.11 mile north of the
2008- 4-22-  intersection of Co. Rd. 200 N and S.R. 267, internal to the Village of Heritage Hill
02    2008   planned unit development. Amendment to zoning commitments for a “PUD”, planned unit
             development (ZA 305/08, PUD 29).
             K.S. Hendricks, LLC, Liberty Township; 62.535 acres located north of I-70 along Co. Rd.
             1000 S and along Co. Rd. 900 S, and west of S.R. 39, along Co. Rd. 100 E and Co. Rd.
2008- 7-22-  “0”. Changed from the zoning classification of “RSS”, Regional Support Services
05    2008   District, “RA”, Rural Residential District, and “GB”, General Business District to
             “RSS”, Regional Support Services District and “GB”, General Business District (ZA 391/
             08).
             Jeffrey L. Robinson, Liberty Township; 6.58 acres located on the northwest corner of the
2008- 8-26-  intersection of U.S. Highway 40 and Cartersburg Road. Changed from the zoning
06    2008   classification of “RA”, Rural Residential District to “GB”, General Business District
             (ZA 390/08).
             Acme Auto Parts & Towing, Franklin Township; 18.1 acres located at the northwest
2008- 10-28- quadrant of the intersection of U.S. Highway 40 and Co. Rd. 300 W at 3110 West U.S.
08    2008   Highway 40, Clayton, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “HB”, Highway
             Business District to “MI”, Major Industrial District (ZA 392/08).
2008- 11-25- C.P. Morgan Community, LP, Brown Township, 51.5 acres, located at the northeast corner
11    2008   of the intersection of Co. Rd. 650 N and Co. Rd. 1000 E, internal to the Branches PUD
             development; amending ordinance 2004-07 (ZA 309/08, PUD 31).
             Hall Investments, Liberty Township; 9.96 acres located on the west side of S.R. 39, 0.75
2009- 2-24-  mile south of U.S. Highway 40. Changed from the zoning classification of “HB”, Highway
04    2009   Business District and “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “AGR”, Agricultural
             Residential District and “HB”, Highway Business District (ZA 393/09).
2009- 3-24-  New Winchester Properties, LLC, Marion Township; 4.88 acres located at the northeast
06    2009   corner of U.S. Highway 36 W and S.R. 75. Changed from the zoning classification of “NB”,
             Neighborhood Business District to “LI”, Light Industrial District (ZA 394/09).
             West Central Indiana Plumbing, Inc., Center Township; 1.55 acres located on the north
2009- 3-24-  side of S.R. 236, 0.50 mile west of Co. Rd. 200 W. Changed from the zoning
07    2009   classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “GB”, General Business
             District (ZA 395/09).
             Lawrence R. Wheatley, Washington Township; 2.39 acres located on the south side of Old
2009- 4-28-  U.S. Highway 36, 0.25 mile east of Co. Rd. 400 E (commonly known as 4265 East Main
09    2009   Street). Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential
             District to “NB”, Neighborhood Business District (ZA 396/09).
             K.S. Hendricks Partners, LLC, Liberty Township; 12.62 acres located on the north side of
2009- 4-28-  Co. Rd. 1000 S, 0.33 mile east of Co. Rd. 100 E. Changed from the zoning classification
10    2009   of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “PB”, Planned Business District (ZA 397/
             09).
             K.S. Hendricks Partners, LLC, Liberty Township; 23.4 acres located on the west side of
2009- 9-15-  S.R. 39, 0.23 mile north of the intersection of S.R. 39 and Co. Rd. 1000 S. Changed from
26    2009   the zoning classification of “GB”, General Business District to “PB”, Planned Business
             District (ZA 398/09).
             K.S. Hendricks Partners, LLC, Liberty Township; 23.4 acres located on the west side of
2010- 1-26-  S.R. 39, 0.23 mile north of the intersection of S.R. 39 and Co. Rd. 1000 S. Changed from
01    2010   the zoning classification of “PB”, Planned Business District to “GB”, General Business
             District (ZA 399/09).
             Christopher R. Wells, Washington Township; 1.64 acres located on the south side of Co.
2010- 2-23-  Rd. 251 S, east of Co. Rd. 1050 E and southeast of the intersection of U.S. Highway 40
06    2010   and Co. Rd. 1050 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “LI”, Light Industrial
             District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 402/10).
2010- 2-23-  Madison Square Park, LLC, Middle Township; 2.372 acres located north of U.S. Highway 36,
07    2010   west of Co. Rd. 150 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural
             Residential District to “LI”, Light Industrial District (ZA 401/10).
2010- 3-23-  Rolling Hills, LLC, (Village of Heritage Hill), Washington/Lincoln Township; 242.017
12    2010   acres located on the west side of S.R. 267 between Co. Rd. 200 N and Co. Rd. 300 N.
             Amendment to PUD ordinance; parcel classified as a PUD on the zoning map (ZA 305/10).
             Rolling Hills, LLC (Village of Heritage Hill, Camargo Club), Lincoln Township; 12.9
2010- 8-24-  acres located on the west side of S.R. 267 and in the southeast quadrant of the
19    2010   intersection of Northfield Drive and New English Way Boulevard. Amendment to PUD
             ordinance; parcel classified as a PUD on the zoning map (ZA 305/10).
             Philip Todd Ploughe, Middle Township; 2.63 acres located at the northwest corner of the
2010- 8-24-  intersection of U.S. Highway 136 and Co. Rd. 225 E. Changed from the zoning
20    2010   classification of “LI”, Light Industrial District to “MI”, Major Industrial District (ZA
             404/10).
             P.R.I.M.E. Ministries, Inc. (Indiana Trails), Washington Township; 17.5 acres located on
2010- 9-28-  the east side of Co. Rd. 900 E, 0.11 mile south of Co. Rd. 100 N. Changed from the
24    2010   zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit
             Development District (ZA 405/10, PUD 35).
2011- 1-25-  Michael Trapp, Lincoln Township; 5.97 acres located on the north side of U.S. Highway
04    2011   136, 0.25 mile west of Raceway Road. Changed from the zoning classification of “GB”,
             General Business District to “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District (ZA 406/10).
2011- 2-22-  D&H Family Limited Partnership (Clermont Lakes), Lincoln Township; 63.9 acres, located
06    2011   on the north side of U.S. Highway 136, 0.33 mile west of Raceway Road. Amendment to PUD
             ordinance; parcel classified as a PUD on the zoning map (ZA 234/11).
             John Hall, Franklin Township; 4.68 acres located on the south side of U.S. Highway 40,
2011- 8-23-  south of Co. Rd. 550 W and 640 feet east of Harrison Street, Town of Stilesville.
17    2011   Changed from the zoning classification of “RB”, Single-Family Residential District to
             “GB”, General Business District (ZA 407/11).
2011- 10-25- James E. Murray, Washington Township; one acre located on the west side of Raceway Road,
23    2011   0.42 mile north of U.S. Highway 36. Changed from the zoning classification of “RB”,
             Single-Family Residential District to “NB”, Neighborhood Business District (ZA 408/11).
2011- 11-22- E.D.&H., LLC (Hendricks County Sports Center), Lincoln Township; 66.61 acres located on
26    2011   the north side of U.S. Highway 136, 0.38 mile west of Raceway Road. Amendment to PUD
             ordinance; parcel classified as a PUD on the zoning map (ZA 234/11).
2012- 1-10-  Gary M. Maloney, DVM, Marion Township; 4.53 acres located on the north side of U.S.
01    2012   Highway 36, west of S.R. 75. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”,
             Agricultural Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 411/11).
2012- 1-10-  Rodney J. Parks, Guilford Township; 0.89 acre located on the northwest corner of east
02    2012   S.R. 267 and east Co. Rd. 750 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “RB”, Single-
             Family Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 412/11).
2012- 1-24-  P.R.I.M.E. Ministries, Inc. (Indiana Trails), Washington Township; 17.6 acres located on
05    2012   the east side of Co. Rd. 900 E, 0.25 mile south of Co. Rd. 100 N. Amendment to PUD
             ordinance; parcel classified as a PUD on the zoning map (ZA 405/12, PUD 35).
             R.C. Properties 1, LLC, Guilford Township; 3.44 acres located at the southeast corner of
2012- 2-28-  Leases Corner Court and Co. Rd. 1025 E (commonly known as Lot 76, Heartland Crossing
10    2012   Business Park). Changed from the zoning classification of “GB”, General Business
             District to “LI”, Light Industrial District (ZA 413/12).
             J. Thomas and Doris Conley Vieira, Clay Township; 1.52 acres located on the west side of
2012- 5-9-   Milton Street just south of Railroad Street, Town of Coatesville (Lots 30, 31, and 32,
15    2012   Philips Addition). Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural
             Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 414/12).
             The Branches, Brown Township; 224.64 acres located at the northeast corner of the
2012- 9-25-  intersection of Co. Rd. East 650 N and Co. Rd. North 1000 E. Amending ordinance 2004-07
22    2012   (ZA-309/BR03-03; no unique zoning map amendment or PUD identification number given for
             this amendment).
             Renk Labeco Test Systems Corporation, Guilford Township; 3.37 acres located on the west
2012- 9-25-  side of Union Mills Drive, 0.06 mile north of County Line Road in Heartland Crossing
23    2012   Business Park. Changed from the zoning classification of “LI”, Light Industrial District
             and “MI”, Major Industrial District to “LI”, Light Industrial District (ZA 416/12).
             Church At Main, Lincoln Township; 2.84 acres located 0.11 mile east of Northfield Drive,
2012- 11-13- on the north side of U.S. Highway 136 (commonly known as 1500 East U.S. Highway 136).
28    2012   Changed from the zoning classification of “LI”, Light Industrial District to “GB”,
             General Business District (ZA 417/12).
2013- 1-8-   Linden Square Apartments, LLC (Republic Development), Washington Township; 5.70 acres
1     2013   located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Co. Rd. 100 N and Raceway Road.
             Amendment to PUD ordinance; parcel classified as a PUD on the zoning map (ZA 153/12).
2013- 3-26-  Samuel T. Himsel, Marion Township; 58.42 acres located on the west side of Co. Rd. 425
03    2013   W, 0.25 mile south of Co. Rd. 350 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”,
             Agricultural Residential District to “AGI”, Agriculture Intense District (ZA 418/13).
2013- 4-23-  Paragus, LLC, Washington Township; 17.6 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd. 900 E
10    2013   and south of Co. Rd. 100 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “PUD”, Planned
             Unit Development District to “RE”, Multi-Family Residential District (ZA 419/13).
             70/39 Partners, LLC, Liberty Township; 313.29 acres located on the south side of I-70
2013- 10-22- and west of S.R. 39. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural
23    2013   Residential District and “HB”, Highway Business District to “PB”, Planned Business
             District (ZA 420/13).
2013- 11-26- P.P. Enterprises, LLC, Guilford Township; 0.81 acre located at the northeast corner of
24    2013   S.R. 67 and east Co. Rd. 800 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”,
             Agricultural Residential District to “NB”, Neighborhood Business District (ZA 421/13).
             Brandon and Megan Zink, Middle Township; five acres located west of Co. Rd. 401 E and
2013- 11-26- 0.07 mile north of the intersection with Co. Rd. 850 N. Changed from the zoning
25    2013   classification of “HB”, Highway Business District to “AGR”, Agricultural Residential
             District (ZA 422/13).
2014- 4-22-  Brandon Leese, Brown Township; 20.02 acres located on the west side of S.R. 267 north,
25    2014   0.33 mile north of Co. Rd. 800 N. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”,
             Agricultural Residential District to “AGB”, Agricultural Business District (ZA 423/14).
2014- 6-24-  Janice Schaefer, Middle Township; 1.67 acres located on the north side of U.S. Highway
31    2014   136, 0.08 mile west of Co. Rd. 150 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”,
             Agricultural Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 424/14).
             Vincent H. Schelm/The Original Vincent’s, Inc., Guilford Township; 2.09 acres located on
2014- 11-25- the southeast side of S.R. 67, 0.10 mile northeast of Hendricks County Road. Changed
42    2014   from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “GB”,
             General Business District (ZA 425/14).
             Woodcreek Crossing Development, LLC, Washington Township; 8.714 acres located on the
2014- 11-25- southwest corner of Co. Rd. 800 E and Northfield Drive. Changed from the zoning
43    2014   classification of “RB”, Single-Family Residential District, “RE”, Multi-Family
             Residential District, and “GB”, General Business District to “RB”, Single-Family
             Residential District and “RC”, Single-Family Residential District (ZA 426/14).
2014- 12-23- Mark B. Robinson, Guilford Township; 2.3 acres located at the intersection of S.R. 67
47    2014   and Co. Rd. 1025 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural
             Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 427/14).
             James D. and Darinda D. Dragon, Washington Township; 5.377 acres located on the north
2015- 3-10-  side of Co. Rd. 100 N, between S.R. 267 and Co. Rd. 800 E. Changed from the zoning
06    2015   classification of “RB”, Single-Family Residential District to “AGR”, Agricultural
             Residential District (ZA 428/15).
             Kent Dickerson, Liberty Township; 27 acres located on and along the north side of Co.
2015- 4-28-  Rd. 600 S, 0.25 mile west of Co. Rd. 400 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
11    2015   “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “RA”, Single-Family Residential District (ZA
             430/15).
2015- 4-28-  KEC, Inc., Guilford Township; 5.30 acres located at the southeast corner of the
12    2015   intersection of S.R. 67 and Co. Rd. 1025 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 431/15).
             J&R Hendren, LLC, Guilford Township; 5.114 acres located on the east side of S.R. 67,
2015- 4-28-  south of Prosperity Circle (commonly known as 8669 North S.R. 67). Changed from the
13    2015   zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “GB”, General
             Business District (ZA 432/15).
2015- 4-28-  Raymond Matthews, Liberty Township; 15.44 acres located on the north side of U.S. 40
14    2015   (commonly known as 2588 East U.S. Highway 40). Changed from the zoning classification of
             “LI”, Light Industrial District to “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District (ZA 433/15).
             Prestwick Partners of Avon, LLC, Washington Township; 2.9 acres located on the northwest
2015- 5-26-  corner of U.S. Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 525 E (commonly known as 5250 East U.S. Highway
17    2015   36). Changed from the zoning classification of “PB”, Planned Business District to “GB”,
             General Business District (ZA 434/15).
             Cal-Cait, LLC, Guilford Township; 3.93 acres located on the west side of Co. Rd. 825 E,
2015- 5-26-  0.09 mile south of S.R. 267 (commonly known as 8109 Network Drive). Changed from the
18    2015   zoning classification of “RB”, Single-Family Residential District to “LI”, Light
             Industrial District (ZA 435/15).
2015- 7-28-  70/39 Commerce Park Associates, LLC, Liberty Township; 0.69 acres located on the west
22    2015   side of S.R. 39 and south of I-70. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”,
             Agricultural Residential District to “PB”, Planned Business District (ZA 436/15).
             Christopher and Danielle Jinkins, Washington Township; 0.79 acre located on the north
2015- 11-24- side of Co. Rd. 550 E and east of Co. Rd. 525 E. Changed from the zoning classification
42    2015   of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “RA”, Single-Family Residential District
             (ZA 437/15).
             Foxhaven (PUD abandonment and rezoning), Brown Township; 324 acres located on the north
2016- 1-26-  and south sides of Co. Rd. 1000 N between Co. Rd. 950 E and Co. Rd. 1075 E. Changed from
03    2016   the zoning classification of “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District to “AGR”,
             Agricultural Residential District (ZA 376/16).
             Joshua and Krystle Bex, Brown Township; 3.78 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd.
2016- 4-26-  850 E, and north of the intersection of Co. Rd. 725 N and Co. Rd. 850 E. Changed from
09    2016   the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “AGB”,
             Agricultural Business District (ZA 438/16).
             Charles and Marie Damler, Lincoln Township; 27.89 acres located on the north side of Co.
2016- 6-28-  Rd. 350 N and east of Co. Rd. 575 E, 0.50 mile west of S.R. 267. Changed from the zoning
19    2016   classification of “AGB”, Agricultural Business District to “AGR”, Agricultural
             Residential District (ZA 439/16).
             Redbird Group, LLC, Liberty Township; 2.6 acres located on the north side of Church
2016- 6-28-  Street, 0.15 mile south of U.S. Highway 40, and 0.04 mile west of S.R. 39, Town of
20    2016   Bellville. Changed from the zoning classification of “RB”, Single-Family Residential
             District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 440/16).
2016- 8-9-   BCFI, LLC, Middle Township; 51.92 acres located on the north side of I-74, 0.26 miles
24    2016   west of Co. Rd. 275 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “HB”, Highway Business
             District to “LI”, Light Industrial District (ZA 441/16).
2016- 8-23-  George R. Harvey & Son, Inc., Center Township; 4.8 acres located along the west side of
26    2016   S.R. 39, 0.27 mile south of S.R. 236. Changed from the zoning classification of “RB”,
             Single-Family Residential District to “LI”, Light Industrial District (ZA 422/16).
             National Transportation Center, Liberty Township; 196.48 acres located on the west side
2016- 11-22- of S.R. 39 and south of U.S. Highway 40. Changed from the zoning classification of
35    2016   “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit Development District (ZA
             443/16).
             J.K.J, LLC, Marion Township; 0.47 acre located on the north side of U.S. Highway 36,
2017- 2-28-  0.25 mile west of the intersection with S.R. 75. Changed from the zoning classification
06    2017   of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 444/
             17).
             Duane R. and Patricia L. Lane, Marion Township; 7.58 acres located on the north side of
2017- 2-28-  U.S. Highway 36, 0.33 mile west of the intersection with S.R. 75. Changed from the
07    2017   zoning classification of “HB”, Highway Business District to “GB”, General Business
             District (ZA 445/17).
             AACME Auto Parts & Towing, Franklin Township; 18.1 acres located at the northwest
2017- 4-25-  quadrant of the intersection of U.S. Highway 40 and Co. Rd. 300 W at 3110 West U.S.
19    2017   Highway 40, Clayton, Indiana. Amendment to zoning commitments for “MI”, Major Industrial
             District (ZA 392/17).
2017- 5-23-  NDZA, Inc., Washington Township; 9.55 acres located on the east side of Co. Rd. 1050 E,
20    2017   0.10 mile south of Bradford Road. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”,
             Agricultural Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 446/17).
             NDZA, Inc., Guilford Township; 1.67 acres located on the west side of Union Mills Drive
2017- 6-27-  at the intersection with East Hendricks County Line Road (commonly known as Lot 74,
25    2017   Heartland Crossing Business Park, section 1, or 8966 Union Mills Road). Changed from the
             zoning classification of “MI”, Major Industrial District to “LI”, Light Industrial
             District (ZA 447/17).
             I-70 West, LLC, Liberty Township; 92.65 acres located near the northwest corner of the
2017- 6-27-  intersection of S.R. 39 and Innovation Boulevard, and near the southeast corner of East
26    2017   Co. Rd. 1000 S and South Co. Rd. 100 E. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”,
             Agricultural Residential District to “PB”, Planned Business District (ZA 448/17).
2017- 6-27-  Duane R. and Patricia J. Lane, Center Township; ten acres located on the south side of
27    2017   Co. Rd. 75 S, 0.10 mile west of Co. Rd. 200 E. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “MI”, Major Industrial District to “LI”, Light Industrial District (ZA 449/17).
             Pyramid Enterprises, LLC, Guilford Township; 51.817 acres located at 10714 East Co. Rd.
2017- 9-12-  700 S, and 6898 South Raceway Road, Camby, Indiana. Changed from the zoning
33    2017   classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “PUD”, Planned Unit
             Development District (ZA 451/17).
2017- 12-26- I-70 West, LLC, Liberty Township; 3.19 acres located west of S.R. 39 and south of East
55    2017   Co. Rd. 900 S. Changed from the zoning classification of “PB”, Planned Business District
             to “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District (ZA 452/17).
             Hendricks County Humane Society Ark, Inc., Center Township; 1.73 acres located on the
2018- 2-27-  southeast side of the intersection of East Main Street and South Co. Rd. 300 E (commonly
04    2018   known as 3033 East Main Street). Amendment to zoning commitments for “GB”, General
             Business District, from ordinance 2000-29 (ZA 454/18).
2018- 4-24-  Designation of multiple parcels as “Sonora PUD District” on the county zoning map;
08    2018   previous classification unknown (ZA 453/17).
             Daniel Price, Washington Township; 4.97 acres located on and along the west side of
2018- 5-22-  Raceway Road, 0.64 mile north of U.S. Highway 36. Changed from the zoning classification
11    2018   of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 455/
             18).
             F.S.M. Properties, LLC, Liberty Township; 2.72 acres located at the northeast quadrant
2018- 6-24-  of the intersection of U.S. Highway 40 and Co. Rd. “0”. Changed from the zoning
13    2018   classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “HB”, Highway Business
             District (ZA 456/18).
2018- 10-23- Jeffrey J. Laskowski, Union Township; 31.28 acres located on the west side of S.R. 39,
22    2018   south of Wyatt Way. Changed from the zoning classification of “RB”, Single-Family
             Residential District to “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District (ZA 457/18).
             Duane R. and Patricia J. Lane, Center Township; ten acres located on the south side of
2018- 10-23- East Co. Rd. 75 S, between South Co. Rd. 150 E and South Co. Rd. 200 E. Changed from the
23    2018   zoning classification of “MI”, Major Industrial District to “LI”, Light Industrial
             District (ZA 458/18).
             Clover Communities Hendricks, LLC, Washington Township; 10.26 acres located on the north
2018- 12-26- side of East Co. Rd. 200 N, 0.26 mile west of North Ronald Regan Parkway. Changed from
29    2018   the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “RE”, Multi-
             Family Residential District (ZA 459/18).
2019- 4-23-  Your Venture Church, Inc., Middle Township; 20 acres located on the east side of North
12    2019   Co. Rd. 100 E south of the railroad. Changed from the zoning classification of “LI”,
             Light Industrial District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 460/19).
             Boss Land Acquisitions, LLC, Middle Township; 37.98 acres located on the east side of
2019- 4-23-  North Co. Rd. 100 E between the railroad and U.S. Highway 136. Changed from the zoning
13    2019   classification of “LI”, Light Industrial District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA
             461/19).
             Michelle D. Hanke, Guilford Township; four acres located on the west side of S.R. 267
2019- 4-23-  just north of its intersection with Northfield Road. Changed from the zoning
14    2019   classification of “GB”, General Business District to “RB”, Single-Family Residential
             District (ZA 463/19).
             The 1188 North Raceway Road land trust, Washington Township; 0.55 acre located on the
2019- 5-28-  west side of Raceway Road, 0.20 mile north of East Co. Rd. 100 N (commonly known as 1188
19    2019   North Raceway Road). Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural
             Residential District to “NB”, Neighborhood Business District (ZA 462/19).
             Jonah Holdings and Whisperer, LLC, two parcels, Center Township; 15.72 acres located on
2019- 10-22- the north side of U.S. Highway 36, west of Co. Rd. 200 W at 2238 West U.S. Highway 36,
36    2019   Danville, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural
             Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (ZA 465/19).
             R.T.S. Realty, LLC, Liberty Township; 2.57 acres located on the south side of U.S.
2019- 11-26- Highway 40 east of Co. Rd. 400 E, Clayton, Indiana. Changed from the zoning
39    2019   classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “GB”, General Business
             District (ZA 466/19).
2020- 1-14-  I-70 West, LLC, Liberty Township; 17.72 acres located at 1735 East Co. Rd. 900 S,
01    2020   Clayton, Indiana 46118. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural
             Residential District to “PB”, Planned Business Park District (ZA 467/19).
             Trustee of Washington Township, two parcels , Washington Township; 4.32 acres located on
2020- 1-14-  the southwest quadrant of the intersection of Co. Rd. 515 E and U.S. Highway 36. Changed
02    2020   from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “NB”,
             Neighborhood Business District (ZA 468/19).
             Sagamore Read-Mix, Liberty Township; 10.66 acres located at the southwest quadrant of
2020- 1-28-  the intersection of I-70 and S.R. 39 at 10345 South S.R. 39, Clayton, Indiana. Changed
04    2020   from the zoning classification of “HB”, Highway Business District to “MI”, Major
             Industrial District (ZA 470/19).
2020- 3-10-  Parcel within Liberty Township; 7.75 acres located at 1330 and 1396 East Co. Rd. 100 S,
09    2020   Clayton, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agriculture
             Residential District to “PB”, Planned Business Park District (ZA 471/20).
2020- 3-24-  Harmandeep Kaur, Liberty Township; 5.43 acres located at 9084 South S.R. 39,
12    2020   Mooresville, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “GB”, General Business
             District to “PB”, Planned Business Park District (427/20).
             Rooster Bar, LLC, Marion Township; 8.42 acres located on the north side of U.S. Highway
2020- 3-24-  36, approximately one-half mile west of S.R. 75, Hendricks, Indiana. Changed from the
13    2020   zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “HB”, Highway
             Business District (473/20).
2020- 8-25-  Cedar Run Limited and John Leslie, S20- T14N-R2E, Guilford, Township; 5.695 acres,
27    2020   located on Prosperity Circle, Camby, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of
             “PB”, Planned Business District to “GB”, General Business District (474/20).
             Pillars of Freedom, LLC, Center Township; 15.96 acres located on the east side of Co.
2020- 10-27- Rd. 300 E, south of U.S. Highway 36 and the railroad. Changed from the zoning
40    2020   classification of “PB”, Planned Business District to “LI”, Light Industrial District
             (475/20).
2020- 10-27- FSM Properties, LLC, Liberty Township; 9.85 acres located at 6315 South Co. Rd. 0,
41    2020   Clayton, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “HB”, Highway Business
             District to “GB”, General Business District (476/20).
2020- 11-24- Anthony Shepard, Marion Township; 2.3 acres located at 6859 through 6949 West U.S.
46    2020   Highway 36, Danville, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “NB”,
             Neighborhood Business District to “GB”, General Business District (477/20).
             Derek McGrew and Brian and Catherine Stegmoller S-20, Lincoln Township; 1.76 acres,
2021- 1-26-  located at 10647 East U.S. Highway 136, Indianapolis, Indiana. Changed from the zoning
01    2021   classification “GB”, General Business District to “MI”, Major Industrial District (479/
             21).
             J.C. Wilson and Company, INC., Washington Township; 0.94 of an acre located
2021- 2-9-   approximately 0.25 miles south of Co. Rd. 100 N (Tenth Street) along the east side of
02    2021   Co. Rd. 1050 E, Avon, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”,
             Agricultural District to “NB”, Neighborhood Business District (478/21).
2021- 3-23-  Alan and Cassandra Siktberg, Union Township; 11.16 acres located at 1945 West Co. Rd.
12    2021   775 N, Lizton, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “RB”, Single Family
             Residential District to “AGR”, Agricultural District (481/21).
             Solential Energy, Middle Township; 51 acres located at 4289 and 4265 East Co. Rd. 400 N,
2021- 5-25-  Danville, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural
24    2021   District to “AGR SECS-OL”, Agriculture Residential District with Solar Energy Overlay
             (428/21).
             Cedar Run Limited, INC., Guilford Township; 22.912 acres located at the east and west
2021- 7-27-  sides of South Raceway Road between Enterprise Drive on the north and Heartland
46    2021   Boulevard on the south, Camby, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “GB”,
             General Business District to “RE”, Multi-Family Residential District (483/21).
             Strategic Capital Partners, LLC., Liberty Township; 204.17 acres located on the
2021- 10-12- southeast corner of S.R. 39 and I-70, Hendricks, Indiana. Changed from the zoning
56    2021   classification of “HB”, Highway Business District to “PB”, Planned Business District
             (484/21).
             Strategic Capital Partners, LLC., Liberty Township; 138.18 acres located on the
2021- 10-12- southeast corner of S.R. 39 and I-70, Henricks, Indiana. Changed from the zoning
57    2021   classification of “HB”, Highway Business District to “PB”, Planned Business District
             (485/21).
             Keith Wagoner, Lincoln Township; 4.153 acres located on the west side of Raceway Road
2021- 10-26- approximately one- tenth of a mile north of its intersection with U.S. Highway 136,
61    2021   Hendricks, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agriculture
             Residential District to “PB”, Planned Business Park (487/21).
             Stone Gray, LLC., Marion Township; 15.819 acres located on the north side of U.S.
2021- 10-26- Highway 36 approximately 0.3 miles west of its intersection with S.R. 75, Hendricks,
63    2021   Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agricultural Residential
             District to “GB”, General Business District (486/21).
             After Action Medical and Dental Supply, Guilford Township; 2.92 acres located on the
2021- 11-23- south side of Prosperity Circle between Union Mills Drive and Walnut Grove Bend at 10535
69    2021   Prosperity Circle, Hendricks, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “GB”,
             General Business District to “PB”, Planned Business District (489/21).
2022- 1-25-  Dollar General, Marion Township; 3.05 acres located 0.22 miles south of the intersection
01    2022   of U.S. 36 and S.R. 75. Changed from the zoning classification of “AGR”, Agriculture
             Residential District to “NB”, Neighborhood Business District (490/21).
             Mission House Holdings, LLC, Marion Township; 4.86 acres located on the north side of
2022- 2-22-  U.S. 36, approx. 0.2 miles east of its intersection with S.R. 75. Changed from the
07    2022   zoning classification of “NB”, Neighborhood Business District to “GB”, General Business
             District (492/22).
2022- 3-22-  Family Promise of Hendricks County, Guilford Township; 5.0 acres located at 7233 East
13    2022   Co. Rd. 300 S, Plainfield, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “LI”,
             Light Industrial District to “RB”, Single Family Residential District (495/22).
             D.R. Horton Indiana, Liberty Township; 115.21 acres located on the west side of South
2022- 4-26-  Co. Rd. 400 E, between East U.S. 40 and East Co. Rd. 600 S. Changed from the zoning
15    2022   classification of “AGR”, Agriculture Residential District to “RB”, Single Family
             Residential District (494/22).
             Meme & Dah, LLC, Washington Township; 31.53 acres located between S.R. 267 and Co. Rd.
2022- 6-14-  800 E on the north side of Co. Rd. 100 N, Avon, Indiana. Changed from the zoning
24    2022   classification of “RB”, Single Family Residential District to “AGR”, Agriculture
             Residential District (496/22).
             Irving Materials, Liberty Township; 33.59 acres located on the north side of E.
2022- 8-23-  Hendricks Co. Rd. approx. 1.25 miles west of its intersection with S.R. 39. Changed from
40    2022   the zoning classification of “MI”, Major Industrial District to “MI”, Major Industrial
             District with no commitments (498/22).
2022- 8-23-  Laura Gregory, Eel River Township; 0.19 acres located at 101 S. Broadway Street, North
41    2022   Salem, Indiana. Changed from the zoning classification of “RB”, Single Family
             Residential District to “NB”, Neighborhood Business District (500/22).
2022- 12-27- GCMF Holdings, LLC, Marion Township; 4.2 acres located one quarter mile west of S.R. 75
54    2022   along the north side of U.S. 36. Changed from “AGR”, Agriculture Residential District to
             “GB”, General Business District (501/22).
2022- 12-27- Terry & Shirley Lee, Union Township; 10.5 acres located one third mile north of U.S. 136
55    2022   along the east side of Co. Rd. 200 W. Changed from “LI”, Light Industrial District to
             “AGR”, Agriculture Residential District (502/22).
2023- 1-24-  CRM Real Estate LLC, Liberty Township; 44 acres located approximately one- quarter mile
03    2023   north of Co. Rd. 875 S. along the east side of S.R. 39. Changed from “AGR”, Agricultural
             Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (503/22).
2023- 2-28-  Amandeep Singh, Franklin Township; 3.63 acres located on the south side of U.S. 40
05-A  2023   between Coble Road and Co. Rd. 625 W. - Stilesville. Changed from “RB”, Single Family
             Residential District to “GB”, General Business District (504/23).
             DWN Investments, LLC, Lincoln Township; 3.19 acres located on the west side of Raceway
2023- 6-27-  Road, approximately 300 feet south of its intersection with S.R. 136, just north of the
18    2023   railroad. Changed from “GB”, General Business District to “LI”, Light Industrial
             District (505/23).
2023- 6-27-  I-70 West, LLC, Liberty Township; 9.310 acres located at 1454 E. Co. Rd. 1000 S. -
19    2023   Clayton. Changed from “AGR”, Agricultural Residential District to “PB”, Planned Business
             District (507/23).
2023- 8-22-  Deborah Ellis, Washington Township; 1.0 acres located at 4905 E. Main Street - Avon.
26    2023   Changed from “NB”, Neighborhood Business District with Restrictions to “NB”,
             Neighborhood Business District (508/23).
2023- 8-22-  Hendricks County Commissioners, Liberty Township; 1.993 acres located at 1375 feet west
27    2023   of S.R. 39 and E. Co. Rd. 900 S. Changed from “GB”, General Business District to “AGR”,
             Agricultural Residential District with Restrictions (509/23).
2023- 10-24- S&J Investment Corp, Lincoln Township; 4.23 acres located at 10095 E. U.S. 136,
34    2023   Indianapolis, IN 46234. Changed from “GB”, General Business District to “LI”, Light
             Industrial District (510/23).
             Connection Pointe Christian Church of Brownsburg, Inc., Washington Township; two parcels
2024- 7-23-  totaling 10.4 acres located at 125 feet west of the intersection of E. Main Street and
26    2024   N. Co. Rd. 500 E on the south side of E. Main Street and extending south to U.S. 36.
             Changed from “PB”, Planned Business Park District to “NB”, Neighborhood Business
             District (515/24).
2024- 8-27-  Brownsburg Youth Sports PUD District established, containing 60.852 acres, more or less.
34    2024   Underlying district to be “PP”, Preservation and Park District (516/24).
2024- 11-26- Angels Touch, Washington Township; 5.33 acres located at 4055 E. Main Street - Avon.
49    2024   Changed from “AGR”, Agriculture Residential District to “RE”, Multi-Family Residential
             District (519/24).
            
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
19            - -         Annexation of Welch Lake Subdivision to the town of
                          Mooresville, Morgan County, Indiana.
                          Incorporation of the Town of Amos through the County
1989-7        5-1-1989    Planning and Building Department for assistance with
                          such matters as issuing building permits, building
                          inspections, and zoning enforcement.
                          Incorporation of the Town of Stilesville through the
                          County Planning and Building Department for
1989-9        5-1-1989    assistance with such matters as issuing building
                          permits, building inspections, and zoning
                          enforcement.
                          Incorporation of the Town of Coatesville through the
                          County Planning and Building Department for
1989-10       10-16-1989  assistance with such matters as issuing building
                          permits, building inspections, and zoning
                          enforcement.
                          Incorporation of the Town of North Salem through the
                          County Planning and Building Department for
1990-18       5-29-1990   assistance with such matters as issuing building
                          permits, building inspections, and zoning
                          enforcement.
                          Incorporation of the Town of Avon through the County
1995-15       5-15-1995   Advisory Planning Commission to be used generally for
                          commercial, industrial, residential, or similar
                          purposes.
                          Transfer of real property to the Town of Danville,
2000-006      3-7-2000    which is not needed in the county, and could be used
                          in Danville for the establishment of a new fire
                          station.
                          Incorporation of the Town of Clayton through the
                          County Planning and Building Department for
2003-06       2-4-2003    assistance with such matter as issuing building
                          permits, building inspections, and remodeling and
                          additions to existing structures.
                         
 
TABLE IV: LAND VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Virgil D. and Helen B. Shephar d; vacating certain alleyway s located in Lots 1
      12-19- through 6, and Lots 7 through 12 in Block 14; Lots 3 and 10, and Lots 4 and 9,
-     1988   in Block 14 running northerl y; between Lots 1 and 10 in Block 13 and a certain
             street between Blocks 13 and 14, designat ed Short Street. All of which are
             located in Belleville, Indiana.
1990- 9-10-  Virgil C. Foster; vacating certain alleyway s commen cing at Lot 7, Block 1 in
15    19 90  James W. Beck’s addition; and at Lot 8, Block 1 in James W. Beck’s addition,
             both of which are located in Danville , Indiana.
             Glen R. and Betty L. Arnold, Fred. R. Hamilto n, and Henry and Ruth Walton;
15    8-12-  vacating certain alleyway s located between Lots 3 and 4 in Block 16; between
      19 91  Lots 3 and 4, and between Lots 8, 10, and 11 in Block 16; and between Lots 8
             and 10, all of which are located in Bellevill e, Indiana.
1991- 11-4-  George W. and Anita M. Kolchec k, and Michael T. and Elaine S. Martin; vacating
18    19 91  a certain ten-foot alleyway located at Summit Street in Cartersb urg, and
             running east to its point of terminus .
1993- 3-30-  Roger D. and Anna-M arie Lash; vacating a certain street located 50 feet on the
3     19 93  west side of Lot 5 in section 1 in Lakewo od Estates, Brown Townshi p.
             Doris Copelan d; vacating certain alleyway s beginnin g in the northwe st
1993- 5-3-   corner of Lot 4, Block 2; beginnin g in the northwe st corner of Lot 1, Block
20    199 3  2; and beginnin g in the southeas t corner of Lot 4, Block 2, all of which are
             located in New William sburg, Marion Townshi p.
             Emmett Wheatle y, develope r of Wheatle y Subdivis ion; vacating a certain
1993- 9-27-  street located in a part of the northeas t quarter of section 7, townshi p 16
33    19 93  north, range 1 east of the second principal meridian in Middle Townshi p
             (consent given by Gerald and Valerie Huber and Harold and Cheryl Lowe,
             homeowners).
1996- 1-16-  Robert A. and Shirley J. Godlet; vacating a certain alleyway that is 15 feet
2     19 96  wide lying immedia tely west of Lot 10 in the western addition in Bellevill e,
             Indiana.
             Mary V. Bartley and Karen Malicoat ; vacating certain alleyway s, one of which
             is ten feet long, platted along the south line of Lots 17, 18, and 19, between
1996- 2-5-   Co. Rd. 450 W to the west and running east to Middle Street; the other being
15    199 6  ten feet long, platted along the east line of Lots 16 and 17, and the west line
             of Lot 18, between South Street and the north and southeast corner of Lot 17
             and the southwest corner of Lot 18.
1997- 9-22-  Michael L. and Marjorie Coates; vacating a certain public street that is a part
36    19 97  of Gates Subdivis ion, section 1, northeas t quarter of section 27, townshi p
             17 north, range 1 east.
2001- 9-10-  Vacating a certain right-of- way and reverting ownersh ip to Allen T. and
13    20 01  Deborah L. Reed.
2001- 12-26- Vacating a certain right-of- way between Lots 5 and 6 in Westvie w Terrace,
38    2 001  section 1, and reverting ownersh ip to the West Pines Baptist Church Corporat
             ion.
             Christin e Berry; vacating certain alleyway s between and/or abutting Lots 14,
2002- 9-16-  15, 16, 17, and 18; also the north half of South Street abutting Lots 16 and
35    20 02  17, and the balance of the South Street right-of- way abutting Lots 19 and 20,
             All of which is located in Reno, Indiana.
             Daniel Dale and Onvetta Jean Herrin; vacating a certain alleyway located in Lot
2002- 10-7-  3, Block 7; for Marshall D. and Mary J. Crawfor d, the north half of Lots 4, 5,
40    20 02  and 6 in Block 7; and for Judy K. Wildma n, the south half of Lots 4, 5, and 6
             in Block 7. All of which is located in Bellevill e, Indiana.
2004- 8-17-  Richard A. and Deborah E. Noah; vacating a public alleyway located north of
31    20 04  Lots 19 and 20 in the Carter’s Addition , Clayton, Indiana.
R.    10-19- Gilbert Drive in the Gilbert’s Addition , section 1; vacating a certain street
04-09 2 004  beginnin g at the northwe st corner of Lot 2.
             Karen R. Furby, Douglas E. and Tamara S. Orebaug h, and Brian R. and Lori Ann
             Craighea d; vacating certain alleyway s located south of Lots 1, 2, and 3, said
2005- 9-13-  alleyway also lying north of Lots 10, 11, and 12 in Block 3; east of Lots 4 and
35    20 05  9 in Block 3, said alleyway also lying west of Lots 3 and 10 in Block 3; and on
             the entire east side of Lot 4, Block 3, measuring 21 feet, and 21 feet off and
             across the entire east side of Lot 9, Block 3. All of which is located in New
             Winchester, Indiana.
2006- 10-3-  Cedar Run Ltd., Inc.; vacating a certain right-of- way located on a portion of
23    20 06  the northeas t quarter of section 20, townshi p 14 north, range 2 east of the
             second principal meridian in Guilford Townshi p.
             Norman G. Paxson, Jr.; vacating certain alleyway s located on the north of and
             adjacent to Lot 9; between Lots 9 and 10; between Lots 10 and 11; between Lots
2007- 2-6-   11 and 12; south of, and adjacent to, Lot 12; north of, and adjacent to, Lot 3;
03    200 7  between Lots 3 and 2; south of and adjacent to Lot 2; and the alleyway running
             north and south located east of, and adjacent to, Lots 9, 10, 11, and 12. All
             of which are located in Block 7 in the Hayley’s Addition, New Winchester,
             Indiana.
2007- 6-5-   Cedar Run Ltd., Inc.; vacating a certain right-of- way on the portion of Racewa
11    200 7  y Road that was re-locate d as part of the develop ment of Heartlan d Crossing
             Business Park.
R.    12-11- Vacating certain streets beginnin g at a part of the northwe st quarter of
07-03 2 007  section 20, townshi p 15 north, range 2 east of the second principal meridian .
             Vacating certain streets beginnin g at a part of the southwe st quarter of the
R.    2-12-  northwe st quarter of the northeas t quarter, and a part of the southeas t
08-02 20 08  quarter of the northeas t quarter of the northwe st quarter of section 29,
             townshi p 15 north, range 2 east, Guilford Townshi p.
R.           Vacating a certain street located on part of the southwe st quarter of section
2009- 1-13-  25, townshi p 14 north, range 1 west; and part of the northwe st quarter of
01    20 09  section 36, townshi p 14 north, range 1 west, both of which are located in
             Liberty Townshi p.
2009- 5-12-  George D. and Peggy L. Ford; vacating a right-of- way located on the plat of
14    20 09  Melissa P. Hypes addition to North Salem, Indiana, beginnin g at the corner of
             Lot 4 in Block 3.
             Town of Coatesvi lle; vacating certain alleyway s located on a 12-foot portion
2010- 2-9-   bounded by Lots 5 and 6 on the east and Lot 7 on the west, running south to
04    201 0  north from the south lines of Lots 5 and 7, and Lots 6 and 7 in Block 4; and on
             a 12-foot portion of the north side of Block 4, both of which are located in
             Coatesvi lle, Indiana.
             Jeffrey J. Laskows ki, trustee of the Jeffrey J. Laskows ki trust; vacating a
2012- 5-22-  right-of- way located on the south half of Wyatt Way, commen cing at the
16    20 12  northeas t quarter of the southeas t quarter of section 32, townshi p 17 north,
             range 1 west of the second principal meridian .
2012- 9-25-  Bradley D. and Lori L. Wilson; vacating a right-of- way located on a 50-foot
24    20 12  portion of the right-of- way for S.R. 75 lying south of Lot 1 in Minor Plat
             880, a subdivis ion in Eel River Townshi p.
2013- 9-25-  Adam M. Parsons; vacating a right-of- way located on a portion of Market Street
17    20 13  which lies east of its intersect ion with Co. Rd. 200 E, between Lots 4, 5, and
             6 in Block 8, and Lots 7,8, 9, and 10 in Block 1 in Bellevill e, Indiana.
2017- 7-11-  Sara Svendso n; vacating a right-of- way located on South Street between Lots 1
30    20 17  and 2 of Blue Valley Estates Subdivis ion, Guildfor d Townshi p.
             Janet A. Wroten and Mark E. Wroten; vacating a right- of-way located between
2020- 10-13- Lots 8 and 9, the entire alley running north and south that lies east and
34    2020   adjacent to Lot 10, and the portion of an alley running east and west that lies
             south of and adjacent to Lots 8, 9, and 10, Town of Maplew ood.
2021- 2-23-  SMH Properti es; vacating a rights- of-way platted as part of Lots 7, 8, 10,
03    2021   and 12, adjacent to Block 6 in the original Town of Bellevill e.
2021- 6-22-  Theodor e Lee Englert, Wayman E. Waites, and James M. Waites; vacating a right-
38    2021   of-way located between Lots 63 and 64 in James H. Oliver’s Addition to the Town
             of Cartersb urg.
             B&B Farm Holding s, LLC.; vacating a right- of-way located between two tracts
2021- 6-22-  of land, being Tract A (the northwe st quarter of section 8, townshi p 14
39    2021   north, range 1 east in Liberty Townshi p) and Tract B (65 acres off of and
             across the entire east side of the southwe st quarter of Section 5, township 14
             north, range 1 east).
2021- 8-24-  Todd and Kelly Gowen and Bryan and Wanda Daugher ty; vacating the entire alley
50    2021   located between Lot 4 and Lot 5 south of East 350 in Plainfiel d Manor, section
             1.
   TABLE VI: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
TABLE V: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Changing of several street names located in the
                          Townships of Brown, Center, Eel River, Guilford,
1993-35       10-11-1993  Liberty, Lincoln, Middle, Union, and Washington in
                          order for these street names and numbers to conform
                          with the Uniform House Numbering System (34 streets
                          in total).
                          Changing the street name formerly known as Vicky
2001-10       6-18-2001   Lane, located in the Eagles Nest Subdivision, to
                          Sanctuary Drive.
                          Changing the street name of Frontage Road from North
                          Co. Rd. 150 E to Commerce Way; North Co. Rd. 401 E,
                          from Wall Street N until the dead end, to Waters Way;
2018-15       9-25-2018   from North Co. Rd. 401 E, from Commerce Way to East
                          Co. Rd. 850 N, to Northside Drive; East Co. Rd. 750 N
                          from North Co. Rd. 475 E to Jeff Gordon Boulevard, to
                          Wall Street; and North Co. Rd. 475 E, from Brookridge
                          Drive to East Co. Rd. 750 N, to Baldauf Drive.
                         
 
TABLE VI: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./   Date
Res.    Passed Description
No.
               Agreement between the county and the Town of Plainfield to establish a
-       - -    contractual services agreement for the operation and administration by
               Plainfield of the County Communications Center as the single public safety
               answering point for all of the county.
               Agreement between the county and the Towns of Brownsburg and Avon for the
-       - -    construction of a portion of Ronald Regan Parkway running through the towns of
               Avon and Brownsburg with a desire to expand the Ronald Regan Parkway from U.S.
               Highway 36 and Co. Rd. 300 N.
               Agreement between the County Board of Commissioners and the Town Council of
-       - -    Danville concerning applications for annexation and zoning amendments for real
               estate located outside of Danville.
               Agreement between the county and the Fire Department of Liberty Township, and
-       - -    using certain funds for acquiring equipment necessary to provide fire
               protections services.
-       - -    Agreement between the county and the Town of Brownsburg for reimbursement of
               certain design costs for a portion of the Ronald Regan Parkway Project.
               Agreement between the Indianapolis Airport Authority and multiple counties with
               the “Local Government Parties” for the process of land use planning and economic
-       - -    development activities within the interlocal geographic area in connection with
               attracting commercial, industrial, and other businesses having a direct, or
               indirect, relationship to air commerce and the use of the airport for a period
               of three years.
               Agreement between the county, the Indiana Economic Development Corporation
-       - -    (IEDC), and K.S. Hendricks Partners, LLC, for the creation of 465 new, full-time
               jobs.
R. 45-  10-6-  Agreement with the county and the West Central Solid Waste District.
1997    1997
        3-7-   Agreement authorizing the Town of Whitestown to own and operate sewage disposal
2006-04 2006   facilities within the county for the limited purpose of serving individual
               county residents on an as-needed basis.
R. 06-  5-8-   Agreement between the county and the Towns of Avon, Brownsburg, and Plainfield,
02      2006   and the Indianapolis Airport Authority for all parties to adopt the Ronald Regan
               Corridor Master Plan for future development within the county.
R. 08-  10-21- Agreement between the county and the Town of Brownsburg for a roadway
19      2008   improvement project on Co. Rd. 600 N from Co. Rd. 900 E to Raceway Road.
Council 5-14-  Agreement to invest county public funds between the County Board of
R.      2015   Commissioners and the County Council.
2015-16
R.      12-22- Agreement between the county and the Town of Danville to waive 50% of the
2020-51 2020   planning, building, water, and sewer fees associated with construction of the
               new county jail and accompanying service building.
        11-8-  Agreement between the county and the Town of Plainfield related to improvements
2023-40 2023   along Co. Rd. 300 S, including a new roundabout at the intersection with Avon
               Avenue (a.k.a. S.R. 267).
        11-8-  Agreement between the county and the Town of Plainfield related to improvements
2023-41 2023   along Co. Rd. 300 S, including a new roundabout at the intersection with Avon
               Avenue (a.k.a. S.R. 267).
        11-14- Agreement between the county and the Town of Plainfield related to improvements
2023-42 2023   along Co. Rd. 300 S, including a new roundabout at the intersection with Avon
               Avenue (a.k.a. S.R. 267).
Council 2-20-  Agreement between the county and the Town of Avon related to a bridge
R.      2024   improvement on Bridge 290 on Dan Jones Road over CSX Railroad.
2024-04
2024-05 11-14- Agreement between the county and the City of Indianapolis related to replacement
        2023   of County Bridge 39 on Raceway Road.
R.      2-27-  Agreement between the county and the Town of Avon related to replacement of
2024-06 2024   County Bridge 290 on Dan Jones Road.
R.      3-12-  Agreement between the county and Morgan County related to improvements at the
2024-10 2024   intersection of Hendricks County Road and Old S.R. 267.
Council 3-19-  Agreement between the county and Morgan County related to improvements at the
R.      2024   intersection of Hendricks County Road and Old S.R. 267.
2024-12
R.      4-9-   Agreement between the county and the Town of Mooresville related to improvements
2024-14 2024   at the intersection of Hendricks County Road and Old. S.R. 267.
              
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                        Code Section
1-1-1-5                           10.04
1-1-1-7                           10.12
1-1-1-8                           10.06
1-1-4-5                           10.05
1-1-5-1                           10.11
1-1-6-1                           10.08
3                                 31.11
3-5-2-40.1                        31.11
3-11-1.5                          30.01
4-21.5                            113.99
4-21.5-3                          50.02
4-21.5-3-1 et seq.                115.09
4-21.5-3-6                        92.36
4-21.5-3-7                        150.48
4-21.5-3-8                        92.36
5-1-14-14(b)                      36.01
5-3-1                             38.35
5-10-8-2.6                        31.04
5-10.3-7-2                        31.05
5-11-1-10                         39.15
5-11-1-21                         39.15
5-11-1-27                         39.15
5-11-1-27(1)                      39.15
5-11-1-27(e)                      39.15
5-13-9-1                          31.09
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.                31.13
5-14-1.5-2(a)(5)                  32.02
5-14-1.5-5(d)                     35.13;
                                  35.15
5-14-3                            113.07
5-14-3 et seq.                    39.04
5-14-3-2                          31.09
5-14-3-3                          39.04
5-22-1-1 et seq.                  36.22
5-23 et seq.                      36.25
6-1.1-1-8.4                       38.05
6-1.1-12-42(a)                    38.05
6-1.1-12-42(c)                    38.05
6-1.1-12.1 et seq.                38.20;
                                  38.36
                                  38.21;
                                  38.24;
6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.              38.26;
                                  38.27;
                                  38.29
6-1.1-12.1-1(1)                   38.35
6-1.1-12.1-2 et seq.              38.23;
                                  38.25
6-1.1-12.1-2.5                    38.35
6-1.1-12.1-2.5(d) and (e)         38.36
6-1.1-12.1-3                      38.33;
                                  38.36
6-1.1-12.1-4.5                    38.28;
                                  38.36
6-1.1-12.1-5                      38.37
6-1.1-12.1-8                      38.37
6-1.1-12.5-4                      39.03
6-2.5                             38.06
6-3.5-5-4                         38.04
6-3.6-5                           38.01
6-3.6-5-6                         38.02
6-3.6-6                           38.01
6-3.6-6-2.7                       38.01
6-3.6-7                           38.01
6-8.1-3-12(h)                     31.09
6-9-29-3                          31.09
6-9-37                            38.06
6-9-37-3                          38.06
6-9-37-4(c)                       38.06
6-9-37-4(c)(2)                    38.06
6-9-37-5                          32.10
7.1-5-12                          39.18
8-1.5-5                           32.40
8-1.5-5-1 et seq.                 32.40
8-1.5-5-4.5                       32.40
8-17-5                            70.16
9-25-4-5                          39.17
10-14-3                           35.06;
                                  35.10
10-14-3-1                         35.02
10-14-3-2                         35.02
10-14-3-12                        35.14
10-14-3-17                        35.02;
                                  35.04
10-14-3-17(c)                     35.05
10-14-3-17(d)                     35.05
10-14-3-17(d)(2)(A)               35.06
10-14-3-17(d)(2)(B)               35.06
                                  35.02;
10-14-3-17(h)                     35.08;
                                  35.10
10-14-3-17(i)                     35.08
10-14-3-17(j)(5)                  35.13
10-14-3-22                        35.04;
                                  35.13
10-14-3-22(b)(2)                  71.04
10-14-3-24                        35.13
10-14-3-26                        35.07
10-14-3-27                        35.02
10-14-3-27(a)                     35.07
10-14-3-27(b)                     35.07
10-14-3-27(c)                     35.07
10-14-3-29                        71.02
                                  35.02;
10-14-3-29(a)                     35.14;
                                  35.15
10-14-3-29.5                      71.02;
                                  71.03
10-14-3-31                        35.13;
                                  35.18
10-19-2-1                         35.02
11-8-8-21                         37.04
11-12-2-12                        36.04
11-12-5-5                         36.23
12-18-8-1                         34.24
12-18-8-1 et seq.                 34.20;
                                  34.24
12-18-8-10                        34.23
12-18-8-11                        34.23
12-18-8-14                        34.24
13-11-2-82                        51.03
13-11-2-205                       51.03;
                                  90.31
13-14                             51.02
13-18-12                          92.32
13-18-27                          152.092
13-20                             51.02
13-21-3-2                         32.42
13-21-3-11                        32.42
13-21-3-12(4)                     152.111-
                                  152.113
13-21-3-13.5                      32.42
13-21-13                          32.42
14-8-2-5.7                        70.04
14-8-2-185                        70.04
14-8-2-223.5                      70.04
14-25                             50.02;
                                  50.99
14-32                             152.007
14-34                             152.060;
                                  152.075
15-11-7.1                         91.02
15-16-7                           32.01
15-16-7-7                         32.01
16-18-2                           113.02
                                  50.02;
16-18-2-212                       51.02;
                                  90.31;
                                  92.31
                                  50.02;
16-20                             51.02;
                                  92.31
16-20-1-22                        114.02
16-20-1-23                        50.02;
                                  114.02
16-20-1-25                        92.36
16-20-1-26                        50.99;
                                  92.36
16-20-8-5                         113.07
16-20-8-8                         113.07
16-41-25-9                        50.01
16-41-31                          113.02
16-42-1                           113.01
16-42-1 through 16-42-2           113.06
16-42-2                           113.01
                                  113.01;
16-42-5                           113.02;
                                  113.99
16-42-5.2                         113.01
16-42-5-6                         113.99
16-42-5-7                         113.99
16-42-5-8                         113.99
16-42-5-9                         113.99
16-42-5-10                        113.99
16-42-5-11                        113.99
16-42-5-12                        113.99
16-42-5-13                        113.99
16-42-5-14                        113.99
16-42-5-15                        113.99
16-42-5-16                        113.99
16-42-5-17                        113.99
16-42-5-18                        113.99
16-42-5-19                        113.99
16-42-5-20                        113.99
16-42-5-21                        113.99
16-42-5-22                        113.99
16-42-5-28                        113.99
20-18-2                           113.04
22-9.5-2-2                        93.01
22-9.5-2-4                        93.01
22-9.5-3                          93.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.                  93.05
22-9.5-4-1                        93.01
22-9.5-4-8                        93.06
22-9.5-5                          93.01
22-9.5-5-1                        93.02
22-9.5-6                          93.01;
                                  93.06
22-12-1-3                         150.18
22-13-2-7                         150.48
22-15-3-1                         150.40
23-7                              32.09
25-21.5                           150.02
25-31                             150.02
25-39                             50.02;
                                  50.99
25-39-2                           50.02
25-39-3                           50.02
31-16                             34.02
31-37-1-2                         34.02
32-24                             35.18
32-24-1-4                         36.05
32-29-7-3(b)                      37.01
33-40-3                           34.04
33-40-7-5                         34.04
34-6-2.1-130(1)(B)                152.111-
                                  152.113
34-13-3-3                         39.17
34-28-5-1(b)                      152.111-
                                  152.113
35-31.5-2-75                      34.02
35-31.5-2-185                     130.01
35-42-2-7                         115.09
35-45-21-4                        115.02;
                                  115.09
36-1-3-1 et seq.                  38.20;
                                  38.29
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                   10.99
36-1-6-9(e)                       152.113
36-1-6-9(f)                       152.113
36-1-10                           32.09
36-2-2                            35.02
36-2-2-8                          35.13;
                                  35.15
36-2-2-8(b)                       35.13
36-2-3-4                          30.02
36-2-4-3                          35.02
36-2-4-8                          31.13
36-2-5-2                          36.05
36-2-5-3                          31.01
36-2-5-3(a)                       35.07
36-2-9-18                         37.05
36-2-12-11                        150.02
36-2-12-13                        150.02
36-2-13-5.6                       37.04
36-2-14-22.3                      31.11
36-7-4                            32.03
36-7-4-200 through 36-7-4-223     32.03
36-7-4-207                        32.03
36-7-4-208                        32.03
36-7-4-901                        32.03
36-7-9                            150.15
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28        150.15
36-7-9-2                          150.17
36-7-9-14                         150.19
36-7-9-28                         150.20
36-7-11.9                         32.09
36-7-12                           32.09
36-7-12-4                         32.08
36-7-14-39                        38.34;
                                  38.35
36-7-14.5                         32.05
36-7-14.5-8                       32.05
36-7-14.5-9                       32.05
36-7-14.5-11                      32.05
36-8-10-5                         31.11
36-9-27-33                        50.04
36-9-27-54                        152.078
36-9-32-7(b) through 36-9-32-7(j) 36.01
36-10-3                           32.28
36-10-3-22                        36.02
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.        Date Passed Code Section
-               - -         39.02
11-04           - -         39.16
45-1997         10-6-1997   TSO Table VI
1998-3          5-11-1998   TSO Table I
1998-4          7-6-1998    36.22
04-09           10-19-2004  TSO Table IV
04-11           12-21-2004  153.01
06-02           5-8-2006    TSO Table VI
07-03           12-11-2007  TSO Table IV
08-02           2-12-2008   TSO Table IV
08-19           10-21-2008  TSO Table VI
2009-01         1-13-2009   TSO Table IV
11-07           12-13-2011  39.16
11-08           12-13-2011  39.01
11-09           12-13-2011  39.01
2012-08         6-26-2012   31.11
12-09           6-26-2012   31.10
12-10           6-26-2012   31.03;
                            39.18
14-20           4-8-2014    92.01
14-21           4-8-2014    31.04
14-33           8-26-2014   32.02
Council 2015-16 5-14-2015   TSO Table VI
Council 2016-08 4-14-2016   31.05
2016-10         5-10-2016   31.05
2016-11         5-10-2016   31.06
2016-29         9-13-2016   32.09
Council 2017-12 4-4-2017    31.01
2017-51         11-14-2017  31.12
Council 2018-03 2-6-2018    38.03
Council 2018-28 12-4-2018   31.07
2019-24         6-11-2019   36.20
2020-51         12-22-2020  TSO Table VI
2021-11         3-23-2021   35.19
2021-32         6-1-2021    31.13
2022-36         8-9-2022    36.25
Council 2024-04 2-20-2024   TSO Table VI
2024-06         2-27-2024   TSO Table VI
2024-10         3-12-2024   TSO Table VI
Council 2024-12 3-19-2024   TSO Table VI
2024-14         4-9-2024    TSO Table VI
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
-               - -         38.07
-               - -         90.01
1               - -         32.07
19              - -         TSO Table III
1982-10         - -         36.24
2006-05         - -         32.41
2008-07         - -         153.01
2012-20         - -         91.06
2016-12         - -         153.01
2016-30         - -         34.01-
                            34.05
1971-1          1-18-1971   70.03;
                            70.99
1               3-15-1976   32.08
1979 6          3-5-1979    70.02;
                            70.99
1979-18A        11-27-1979  Ch. 73 Schd. I
1980-4          3-10-1980   TSO Table I
2 1981          2-17-1981   151.01-
                            151.08
4 1981          3-16-1981   90.02;
                            90.99
13 1982         10-12-1982  90.03;
                            90.99
1982-16         12-6-1982   32.06
1987-10         12-7-1987   37.10
1987-12         12-19-1987  150.15-
                            150.20
                            150.36-
1987-13         12-29-1987  150.49;
                            150.99
-               12-19-1988  TSO Table IV
1989-7          5-1-1989    TSO Table III
1989-9          5-1-1989    TSO Table III
1989-10         10-16-1989  TSO Table III
1990-18         5-29-1990   TSO Table III
                            110.01-
1990-10         7-31-1990   110.17;
                            110.99
1990-14         9-4-1990    TSO Table II
1990-15         9-10-1990   TSO Table IV
1-1991          1-14-1991   51.03
1991-12         3-26-1991   Ch. 72 Schd. I
15              8-12-1991   TSO Table IV
1991-18         11-4-1991   TSO Table IV
11              2-10-1992   TSO Table II
1992-14         3-2-1992    TSO Table II
1992-13         3-3-1992    32.04
15              3-16-1992   TSO Table II
16              3-16-1992   TSO Table II
1992-17         5-4-1992    36.05
1992-18         5-26-1992   TSO Table II
1992-28         5-26-1992   TSO Table II
1992-19         6-1-1992    TSO Table II
1992-20         6-1-1992    TSO Table II
1992-21         6-1-1992    TSO Table II
1992-29         6-1-1992    TSO Table II
1992-30         6-1-1992    TSO Table II
1992-31         6-1-1992    TSO Table II
1992-22         6-8-1992    36.05
1992-23         6-8-1992    TSO Table II
1992-24         6-8-1992    TSO Table II
1992-25         6-8-1992    130.01;
                            130.99
1992-32         6-8-1992    TSO Table II
1992-33         7-6-1992    TSO Table II
1992-34         7-6-1992    TSO Table II
1992-35         7-6-1992    TSO Table II
1992-36         7-6-1992    TSO Table II
1992-37         7-6-1992    TSO Table II
1992-38         7-6-1992    TSO Table II
1992-39         7-13-1992   TSO Table II
1992-40         7-20-1992   TSO Table II
1992-45         9-29-1992   TSO Table II
1992-46         11-24-1992  TSO Table II
                            112.01-
1993-4          3-30-1993   112.08;
                            112.99
1993-6          3-30-1993   TSO Table II
1993-8          3-30-1993   TSO Table IV
1993-9          4-5-1993    TSO Table II
1993-10         4-19-1993   TSO Table II
1993-11         4-19-1993   TSO Table II
1993-12         4-19-1993   TSO Table II
1993-13         4-19-1993   TSO Table II
1993-15         4-27-1993   TSO Table II
1993-16         4-27-1993   TSO Table II
1993-17         4-27-1993   TSO Table II
1993-18         4-27-1993   TSO Table II
1993-19         4-27-1993   TSO Table II
1993-20         5-3-1993    TSO Table IV
21 1993         5-17-1993   37.09
1993-23         5-25-1993   TSO Table II
1993-24         5-25-1993   TSO Table II
1993-25         5-25-1993   TSO Table II
1993-27         7-19-1993   TSO Table II
                            90.30-
1993-29         8-2-1993    90.35;
                            90.99
1993-30         8-2-1993    TSO Table II
1993-31         8-18-1993   TSO Table II
1993-32         9-27-1993   TSO Table II
1993-33         9-27-1993   TSO Table IV
                            150.60-
1993-34         10-11-1993  150.65;
                            150.99
1993-35         10-11-1993  TSO Table V
1993-36         10-25-1993  TSO Table II
1993-38         12-20-1993  TSO Table II
1994-4          3-14-1994   37.09
1994-5          3-21-1994   TSO Table II
1994-6          4-18-1994   TSO Table II
1994-8          8-1-1994    TSO Table II
                            93.01-
1994-9          8-8-1994    93.06;
                            93.99
25 1994         8-11-1994   TSO Table II
1994-10         8-15-1994   TSO Table II
1994-11         8-15-1994   TSO Table II
1994-12         8-22-1994   36.23
1994-13         9-19-1994   TSO Table II
1994-14         9-19-1994   TSO Table II
1994-15         9-19-1994   TSO Table II
1994-17         10-17-1994  TSO Table II
1994-21         11-21-1994  TSO Table II
1994-22         11-21-1994  TSO Table II
1994-23         11-21-1994  TSO Table II
1994-24         12-19-1994  TSO Table II
1994-26         12-19-1994  32.03
1995-1          3-6-1995    TSO Table II
1995-2          3-6-1995    TSO Table II
1995-3          3-20-1995   TSO Table II
1995-4          3-20-1995   31.08
1995-6          3-27-1995   TSO Table II
Council 95-7    4-4-1995    36.06;
                            37.09
1995-8          4-17-1995   TSO Table II
1995-9          4-17-1995   TSO Table II
1995-10         4-17-1995   TSO Table II
1995-11         4-17-1995   TSO Table II
1995-13         5-15-1995   TSO Table II
1995-14         5-15-1995   TSO Table II
1995-15         5-15-1995   TSO Table III
1995-16         5-22-1995   TSO Table II
1995-17         6-19-1995   TSO Table II
1995-18         6-19-1995   TSO Table II
1995-20         7-17-1995   TSO Table II
1995-21         7-17-1995   TSO Table II
1995-22         7-17-1995   TSO Table II
1995-23         7-17-1995   TSO Table II
1995-24         8-21-1995   TSO Table II
1995-25         8-21-1995   TSO Table II
1995-26         8-21-1995   TSO Table II
1995-27         8-21-1995   TSO Table II
1995-29         9-5-1995    37.11
1995-30         9-25-1995   TSO Table II
1995-31         9-25-1995   TSO Table II
1995-32         9-25-1995   TSO Table II
1995-33         10-9-1995   TSO Table II
1995-34         10-16-1995  TSO Table II
1995-38         11-20-1995  TSO Table II
1995-39         12-4-1995   TSO Table II
1995-40         12-4-1995   TSO Table II
1995-35         12-18-1995  TSO Table II
95-37           12-22-1995  TSO Table II
1995-36         12-27-1995  TSO Table II
1996-2          1-16-1996   TSO Table IV
96-3            1-21-1996   TSO Table II
96-4            1-21-1996   TSO Table II
1996-15         2-5-1996    TSO Table IV
96-5            2-20-1996   TSO Table II
96-6            2-20-1996   TSO Table II
96-8            3-4-1996    TSO Table II
96-9            3-18-1996   TSO Table II
96-10           3-18-1996   TSO Table II
96-11           3-18-1996   TSO Table II
96-18           5-13-1996   TSO Table II
1996-19         5-20-1996   31.02
96-21           5-28-1996   TSO Table II
96-22           5-28-1996   TSO Table II
96-23           5-28-1996   TSO Table II
96-24           5-28-1996   TSO Table II
1996-26         6-4-1996    38.08
1996-28         7-14-1996   TSO Table II
96-30           7-22-1996   32.05
96-31           8-5-1996    TSO Table II
96-32           9-16-1996   TSO Table II
96-33           9-16-1996   TSO Table II
96-34           9-16-1996   TSO Table II
96-35           9-16-1996   TSO Table II
1996-43         10-7-1996   150.01
1996-37         10-14-1996  TSO Table II
1996-38         10-14-1996  TSO Table II
1996-39         10-14-1996  TSO Table II
1996-40         10-14-1996  TSO Table II
1996-44         11-18-1996  TSO Table II
1996-47         11-18-1996  TSO Table II
1996-48         12-16-1996  TSO Table II
1997-1          1-21-1997   TSO Table II
1997-2          1-21-1997   TSO Table II
1997-3          1-21-1997   TSO Table II
1997-5          2-18-1997   TSO Table II
1997-6          2-18-1997   TSO Table II
1997-9          3-17-1997   TSO Table II
1997-10         3-17-1997   TSO Table II
97-13           4-21-1997   TSO Table II
97-14           4-21-1997   TSO Table II
97-15           4-21-1997   TSO Table II
97-17           5-19-1997   TSO Table II
97-18           5-19-1997   TSO Table II
1997-21         6-16-1997   TSO Table II
1997-22         6-16-1997   TSO Table II
1997-25         7-21-1997   TSO Table II
1997-27         8-18-1997   TSO Table II
1997-28         8-18-1997   TSO Table II
1997-29         8-18-1997   TSO Table II
1997-30         8-18-1997   TSO Table II
1997-31         9-15-1997   TSO Table II
1997-33         9-15-1997   TSO Table II
1997-34         9-15-1997   TSO Table II
1997-36         9-22-1997   TSO Table II
Council 97-37   10-7-1997   38.20-
                            38.38
1997-32         10-13-1997  TSO Table II
97-39           11-17-1997  TSO Table II
1997-40         12-8-1997   TSO Table I
1997-41         12-15-1997  TSO Table II
1997-42         12-15-1997  TSO Table II
1998-1          1-20-1998   TSO Table II
1998-2          1-20-1998   TSO Table II
1998-3          1-20-1998   TSO Table II
1997-26         2-17-1998   TSO Table II
1998-6          3-16-1998   TSO Table II
1998-7          4-20-1998   TSO Table II
1998-8          4-20-1998   TSO Table II
1998-9          4-20-1998   TSO Table II
1998-10         5-18-1998   TSO Table II
1998-11         5-18-1998   TSO Table II
1998-12         5-18-1998   TSO Table II
1998-14         5-18-1998   TSO Table II
1998-12A        6-1-1998    51.02
1998-15         6-15-1998   TSO Table II
1998-13         6-22-1998   TSO Table II
1998-18         7-20-1998   TSO Table II
1998-19         7-20-1998   TSO Table II
1998-20         7-20-1998   TSO Table II
1998-27         9-12-1998   TSO Table II
1998-28         10-19-1998  TSO Table II
1998-29         10-19-1998  TSO Table II
1998-30         10-19-1998  TSO Table II
1998-32         11-23-1998  TSO Table II
1998-33         12-21-1998  TSO Table II
1998-34         12-21-1998  TSO Table II
1998-35         12-21-1998  TSO Table II
1999-1          1-19-1999   TSO Table II
1999-2          1-19-1999   TSO Table II
1999-4          2-8-1999    TSO Table I
1999-6          3-15-1999   TSO Table II
1999-8          4-19-1999   TSO Table II
1999-9          4-19-1999   TSO Table II
1999-10         4-19-1999   TSO Table II
1999-11         4-19-1999   TSO Table II
1999-12         5-17-1999   TSO Table II
1999-13         5-17-1999   TSO Table II
1999-15         5-27-1999   TSO Table II
99-19           6-21-1999   70.99
1999-20         7-19-1999   TSO Table II
1999-21         8-16-1999   TSO Table II
1999-23         9-27-1999   TSO Table II
1999-26         10-18-1999  TSO Table II
1999-27         10-18-1999  TSO Table II
2000-1          1-4-2000    32.01
99-29A          1-18-2000   TSO Table II
2000-002        1-18-2000   TSO Table II
2000-003        1-18-2000   TSO Table II
005 2000        3-6-2000    37.09
2000-006        3-7-2000    TSO Table III
2000-007        3-7-2000    32.25-
                            32.29
2000-08         3-20-2000   TSO Table II
2000-009        4-17-2000   36.04
2000-010        4-17-2000   TSO Table II
2000-012        6-26-2000   TSO Table II
2000-015        7-17-2000   TSO Table II
2000-017        8-21-2000   TSO Table II
2000-19         9-11-2000   TSO Table II
2000-19         9-18-2000   TSO Table II
2000-20         9-18-2000   TSO Table II
2000-21         9-18-2000   TSO Table II
2000-22         10-2-2000   TSO Table II
2000-23         10-2-2000   TSO Table II
2000-24         10-16-2000  TSO Table II
2000-25         10-16-2000  TSO Table II
2000-27         11-20-2000  TSO Table II
2000-28         11-27-2000  TSO Table II
2000-29         12-26-2000  TSO Table II
                            91.01-
                            91.06;
                            91.08-
2000-30         12-26-2000  91.10;
                            91.12;
                            91.13;
                            90.99
2001-02         2-20-2001   TSO Table II
2001-03         2-20-2001   TSO Table II
2001-04         4-16-2001   TSO Table II
2001-05         6-4-2001    TSO Table II
2001-06         6-18-2001   TSO Table II
2001-07         6-18-2001   TSO Table II
2001-10         6-18-2001   TSO Table V
2001-09         8-6-2001    TSO Table II
2001-11         9-4-2001    TSO Table II
2001-12         9-4-2001    TSO Table II
2001-13         9-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-20         11-5-2001   TSO Table II
2001-21         11-5-2001   TSO Table II
2001-22         11-5-2001   TSO Table II
2001-23         11-5-2001   TSO Table II
2001-28         11-26-2001  50.04;
                            50.99
2001-38         12-26-2001  TSO Table IV
2002-01         1-7-2002    TSO Table II
2002-02         1-7-2002    TSO Table II
2002-05         2-19-2002   37.07
2002-06         3-11-2002   37.08
2002-09         5-6-2002    TSO Table II
2002-10         5-6-2002    TSO Table II
2002-11         5-6-2002    TSO Table II
2002-30         7-22-2002   TSO Table II
2002-33         8-12-2002   TSO Table II
2002-34         9-3-2002    TSO Table II
2002-35         9-16-2002   TSO Table IV
2002-37         10-7-2002   TSO Table II
2002-38         10-7-2002   TSO Table II
2002-39         10-7-2002   TSO Table II
2002-40         10-7-2002   TSO Table IV
2002-44         11-18-2002  TSO Table II
2002-48         12-23-2002  TSO Table II
2003-05         2-4-2003    TSO Table II
2003-06         2-4-2003    TSO Table III
2003-08         4-1-2003    31.09;
                            31.99
2003-09         4-22-2003   TSO Table II
2003-11         6-3-2003    TSO Table II
2003-14         7-8-2003    TSO Table II
2003-12         8-5-2003    TSO Table II
2003-17         8-5-2003    TSO Table II
2003-19         10-28-2003  TSO Table II
2003-20         11-5-2003   Ch. 72 Schd. I
2003-21         12-1-2003   TSO Table II
Council 2003-05 12-30-2003  38.05
2004-01         1-13-2004   TSO Table II
2004-06         2-3-2004    TSO Table II
2004-07         2-3-2004    TSO Table II
2004-08         2-3-2004    TSO Table II
2004-15         3-23-2004   Ch. 72 Schd. I
2004-20         5-11-2004   TSO Table II
2004-21         5-11-2004   TSO Table II
2004-23         5-18-2004   37.25
2004-24         6-1-2004    TSO Table II
2004-26         7-6-2004    TSO Table II
2004-28         7-20-2004   TSO Table II
2004-31         8-17-2004   TSO Table IV
2004-32         9-28-2004   TSO Table II
2004-33         9-28-2004   TSO Table II
2004-34         11-1-2004   TSO Table II
2004-35         11-1-2004   TSO Table II
2004-37         11-16-2004  TSO Table II
2004-38         11-23-2004  TSO Table II
2004-39         12-14-2004  32.42
2004-41         12-18-2004  150.02;
                            150.99
2005-03         2-15-2005   TSO Table II
2005-04         2-15-2005   TSO Table II
2005-05         3-15-2005   TSO Table II
2005-06         3-15-2005   TSO Table II
2005-7          3-15-2005   TSO Table II
2005-08         4-5-2005    TSO Table II
2005-10A        4-19-2005   TSO Table II
2005-11         4-19-2005   TSO Table II
2005-12         4-26-2005   TSO Table II
2005-14         4-26-2005   TSO Table II
2005-15         4-26-2005   TSO Table II
2005-18         5-12-2005   37.06
2005-19         5-24-2005   TSO Table II
2005-20         5-24-2005   TSO Table II
2005-23         5-24-2005   TSO Table II
                            35.01-
2005-24         7-19-2005   35.18;
                            35.99
2005-27         8-9-2005    TSO Table II
2005-28         8-9-2005    TSO Table II
2005-29         8-9-2005    TSO Table II
2005-30         8-16-2005   TSO Table II
2005-32         8-23-2005   TSO Table II
2005-31         8-23-2005   Ch. 73 Schd. I
Council 2005-34 8-25-2005   38.06
2005-35         9-13-2005   TSO Table IV
2005-33         9-27-2005   TSO Table II
2005-36         9-27-2005   TSO Table II
2005-37         9-27-2005   TSO Table II
2005-39         10-25-2005  TSO Table II
2005-41         11-15-2005  51.01
2005-43         11-22-2005  TSO Table II
2005-44         11-22-2005  TSO Table II
2005-45         11-22-2005  TSO Table II
2005-47         12-20-2005  TSO Table II
2006-01         1-24-2006   TSO Table II
2006-02         3-7-2006    Ch. 72 Schd. II
2006-04         3-7-2006    TSO Table VI
2006-07         5-3-2006    TSO Table II
2006-08         5-23-2006   TSO Table II
2006-09         5-23-2006   Ch. 72 Schd. I
2006-10         6-13-2006   TSO Table II
2006-12         6-27-2006   TSO Table II
2006-13         6-27-2006   TSO Table II
2006-14         6-27-2006   TSO Table II
2006-15         7-11-2006   32.40
2006-16         7-18-2006   91.06
Council 2006-19 9-7-2006    38.06
2006-20         9-26-2006   32.42
2006-22         9-26-2006   TSO Table II
2006-23         10-3-2006   TSO Table IV
2006-24         10-24-2006  TSO Table II
2006-25         10-24-2006  TSO Table II
2006-26         11-28-2006  TSO Table II
2006-27         11-28-2006  TSO Table II
2006-28         11-28-2006  TSO Table II
Council 2006-29 12-14-2006  31.09
2006-31         12-19-2006  153.01
2006-32         12-19-2006  TSO Table II
2006-33         12-19-2006  TSO Table II
2007-01         1-2-2007    TSO Table II
2007-02         1-23-2007   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2007-03         2-6-2007    TSO Table IV
2007-07         4-17-2007   TSO Table II
2007-08         5-22-2007   TSO Table II
2007-09         5-22-2007   153.01
2007-10         5-22-2007   153.01
2007-11         6-5-2007    TSO Table IV
2007-12         6-19-2007   Ch. 73 Schd. I
2007-13         6-19-2007   Ch. 73 Schd. I
2007-14         6-26-2007   TSO Table II
2007-15         6-26-2007   TSO Table II
2007-16         6-26-2007   TSO Table II
2007-17         7-10-2007   Ch. 73 Schd. I
2007-18         7-17-2007   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2007-20         7-24-2007   TSO Table II
2007-22         8-28-2007   TSO Table II
2007-23         9-18-2007   TSO Table II
2007-24         9-25-2007   Ch. 73 Schd. I
2007-26         11-6-2007   150.04
2007-29         12-11-2007  Ch. 72 Schd. III
2007-32         12-18-2007  TSO Table II
2008-1          1-22-2008   TSO Table II
2008-02         4-22-2008   TSO Table II
2008-03         4-22-2008   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2008-05         7-22-2008   TSO Table II
2008-06         8-26-2008   TSO Table II
2008-08         10-28-2008  TSO Table II
2008-09         11-18-2008  Ch. 72 Schd. III
2008-10         11-18-2008  Ch. 72 Schd. III
2008-13         11-18-2008  Ch. 72 Schd. I
2008-11         11-25-2008  TSO Table II
2009-02         1-13-2009   37.01
2009-04         2-24-2009   TSO Table II
2009-06         3-24-2009   TSO Table II
2009-07         3-24-2009   TSO Table II
2009-08         4-28-2009   153.01
2009-09         4-28-2009   TSO Table II
2009-10         4-28-2009   TSO Table II
2009-11         5-5-2009    Ch. 72 Schd. III
2009-12         5-5-2009    Ch. 72 Schd. III
2009-13         5-5-2009    Ch. 72 Schd. III
2009-14         5-12-2009   TSO Table IV
2009-17         6-23-2009   153.01
2009-18         7-21-2009   153.01
2009-20         8-18-2009   153.01
2009-23         9-8-2009    Ch. 72 Schd. III
2009-22         9-9-2009    Ch. 72 Schd. III
2009-25         9-15-2009   34.20-
                            34.24
2009-26         9-15-2009   TSO Table II
2009-27         9-15-2009   153.01
2009-29         10-27-2009  153.01
2010-01         1-26-2010   TSO Table II
2010-02         1-26-2010   153.01
2010-03         1-26-2010   153.01
2010-04         2-9-2010    TSO Table IV
2010-06         2-23-2010   TSO Table II
2010-07         2-23-2010   TSO Table II
                            113.01-
2010-08         2-23-2010   113.10;
                            113.99
2010-11         3-16-2010   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2010-12         3-23-2010   TSO Table II
2010-14         5-25-2010   153.01
2010-16         6-15-2010   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2010-19         8-24-2010   TSO Table II
2010-20         8-24-2010   TSO Table II
2010-21         8-24-2010   153.01
2010-22         8-24-2010   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2010-23         8-24-2010   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2010-24         9-28-2010   TSO Table II
2010-25         10-12-2010  Ch. 72 Schd. III
2010-27         10-26-2010  Ch. 72 Schd. III
2011-02         1-11-2011   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2011-04         1-25-2011   TSO Table II
2011-06         2-22-2011   TSO Table II
2011-07         4-12-2011   31.02
                            92.30-
2011-09         4-26-2011   92.36;
                            92.99
2011-14         8-9-2011    Ch. 72 Schd. III
2011-15         8-9-2011    Ch. 73 Schd. I
2011-17         8-23-2011   TSO Table II
2011-18         8-23-2011   153.01
2011-19         8-23-2011   153.01
                            111.01-
2011-20         8-23-2011   111.13;
                            111.99
2011-21         9-27-2011   36.03
2011-23         10-25-2011  TSO Table II
Council 2011-25 10-27-2011  38.02
2011-26         11-22-2011  TSO Table II
2012-01         1-10-2012   TSO Table II
2012-02         1-10-2012   TSO Table II
2012-04         1-12-2012   36.02
2012-05         1-24-2012   TSO Table II
2012-07         2-14-2012   Ch. 72 Schd. II
2012-08         2-14-2012   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2012-09         2-14-2012   36.07;
                            37.04
2012-10         2-28-2012   TSO Table II
2012-13         3-13-2012   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2012-14         3-13-2012   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2012-15         5-9-2012    TSO Table II
2012-16         5-22-2012   TSO Table IV
Council 2012-18 6-29-2012   38.04
Council 2012-21 8-16-2012   31.09
2012-22         9-25-2012   TSO Table II
2012-23         9-25-2012   TSO Table II
2012-24         9-25-2012   TSO Table IV
2012-28         11-13-2012  TSO Table II
2013-1          1-8-2013    TSO Table II
2013-03         3-26-2013   TSO Table II
2013-05         3-26-2013   50.01;
                            50.99
2013-09         4-9-2013    37.26
2013-10         4-23-2013   TSO Table II
2013-11         6-11-2013   Ch. 73 Schd. I
2013-13         8-13-2013   37.03
2013-14         8-13-2013   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2013-15         8-13-2013   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2013-16         8-27-2013   153.01
2013-17         8-27-2013   TSO Table IV
2013-18         9-24-2013   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2013-19         9-24-2013   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2013-23         10-22-2013  TSO Table II
2013-24         11-26-2013  TSO Table II
2013-25         11-26-2013  TSO Table II
2013-26         12-10-2013  30.02
2014-10         2-11-2014   91.06
                            71.01-
2014-11         2-11-2014   71.05;
                            71.99
2014-16         3-25-2014   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2014-17         3-25-2014   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2014-18         3-25-2014   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2014-19         3-25-2014   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2014-25         4-22-2014   TSO Table II
2014-30         6-24-2014   153.01
2014-31         6-24-2014   TSO Table II
2014-42         11-25-2014  TSO Table II
2014-43         11-25-2014  TSO Table II
2014-47         12-23-2014  TSO Table II
2014-48         12-23-2014  153.01
Council 2015-03 2-15-2015   38.04
2015-05         2-24-2015   33.01-
                            33.12
2015-06         3-10-2015   TSO Table II
2015-11         4-28-2015   TSO Table II
2015-12         4-28-2015   TSO Table II
2015-13         4-28-2015   TSO Table II
2015-14         4-28-2015   TSO Table II
2015-17         5-26-2015   TSO Table II
2015-18         5-26-2015   TSO Table II
2015-22         7-28-2015   TSO Table II
2015-25         8-25-2015   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2015-26         9-8-2015    Ch. 72 Schd. III
2015-27         9-8-2015    Ch. 72 Schd. III
2015-28         9-8-2015    Ch. 72 Schd. III
Council 2015-30 9-10-2015   36.01
2015-36         10-13-2015  Ch. 73 Schd. I
2015-41         11-23-2015  37.02
2015-40         11-24-2015  30.01
2015-42         11-24-2015  TSO Table II
2016-03         1-26-2016   TSO Table II
2016-06         2-23-2016   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2016-09         4-26-2016   TSO Table II
2016-16         6-14-2016   31.09
2016-19         6-28-2016   TSO Table II
2016-20         6-28-2016   TSO Table II
2016-21         7-12-2016   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2016-23         7-26-2016   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2016-24         8-9-2016    TSO Table II
2016-26         8-23-2016   TSO Table II
2016-35         11-22-2016  TSO Table II
2016-36         11-22-2016  39.15
2016-37         12-27-2016  50.02;
                            50.99
2017-01         1-10-2017   153.01
2017-06         2-28-2017   TSO Table II
2017-07         2-28-2017   TSO Table II
2017-08         3-28-2017   90.15-
                            90.19
2017-15         4-25-2017   153.01
2017-19         4-25-2017   TSO Table II
2017-20         5-23-2017   TSO Table II
2017-25         6-27-2017   TSO Table II
2017-26         6-27-2017   TSO Table II
2017-27         6-27-2017   TSO Table II
2017-30         7-11-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-31         8-22-2017   Ch. 72 Schd. II
2017-33         9-12-2017   TSO Table II
2017-34         9-12-2017   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2017-35         9-12-2017   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2017-36         9-12-2017   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2017-37         9-12-2017   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2017-38         9-12-2017   Ch. 72 Schd. I
2017-39         9-12-2017   50.03
2017-42         9-26-2017   153.01
2017-43         9-26-2017   153.01
2017-48         10-24-2017  153.01
2017-49         10-24-2017  153.01
2017-54         12-12-2017  150.03
2017-55         12-26-2017  TSO Table II
2018-1          1-9-2018    115.01-
                            115.14
2018-04         2-27-2018   TSO Table II
2018-08         4-24-2018   TSO Table II
2018-10         5-9-2018    37.28
2018-11         5-22-2018   TSO Table II
2018-12         6-26-2018   91.07;
                            91.11
2018-13         6-26-2018   TSO Table II
2018-14         8-14-2018   92.15-
                            92.19
2018-15         9-25-2018   TSO Table V
2018-22         10-23-2018  TSO Table II
2018-23         10-23-2018  TSO Table II
2018-29         12-26-2018  TSO Table II
2019-11         4-23-2019   39.03
2019-12         4-23-2019   TSO Table II
2019-13         4-23-2019   TSO Table II
2019-14         4-23-2019   TSO Table II
2019-15         4-23-2019   153.01
2019-16         4-23-2019   153.01
2019-19         5-28-2019   TSO Table II
2019-23         6-11-2019   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2019-25         6-25-2019   37.05
                            114.01-
2019-27         7-23-2019   114.05;
                            114.99
Council 2019-30 8-28-2019   38.01
2019-32         9-24-2019   153.01
2019-36         10-22-2019  TSO Table II
2019-39         11-26-2019  TSO Table II
2019-40         11-26-2019  153.01
2019-41         11-26-2019  37.25
2019-46         12-10-2019  39.15
2020-01         1-14-2020   TSO Table II
2020-02         1-14-2020   TSO Table II
2020-3          1-28-2020   Ch. 72 Schd. II
2020-04         1-28-2020   TSO Table II
2020-08         2-25-2020   37.27
2020-09         3-10-2020   TSO Table II
2020-12         3-24-2020   TSO Table II
2020-13         3-24-2020   TSO Table II
2020-16         4-14-2020   36.21
2020-17         4-14-2020   94.03;
                            94.99
2020-21         5-26-2020   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2020-27         8-25-2020   TSO Table II
2020-31         9-22-2020   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2020-32         9-22-2020   Ch. 72 Schd. IV
2020-34         10-13-2020  TSO Table IV
2020-39         10-27-2020  Ch. 72 Schd. IV
2020-40         10-27-2020  TSO Table II
2020-41         10-27-2020  TSO Table II
2020-46         11-24-2020  TSO Table II
2020-49         12-8-2020   32.10
2020-52         12-22-2020  70.04
2021-01         1-26-2021   TSO Table II
2021-02         2-9-2021    TSO Table II
2021-03         2-23-2021   TSO Table IV
01-21-04        2-23-2021   153.01
2021-10         3-23-2021   38.09
2021-12         3-23-2021   TSO Table II
2021-24         5-25-2021   TSO Table II
2021-38         6-22-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-39         6-22-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-46         7-27-2021   TSO Table II
2021-50         8-24-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-51         9-14-2021   36.08
2021-56         10-12-2021  TSO Table II
2021-57         10-12-2021  TSO Table II
                            94.01;
2021-60         10-26-2021  94.02;
                            94.04;
                            94.99
2021-61         10-26-2021  TSO Table II
2021-63         10-26-2021  TSO Table II
2021-69         11-23-2021  TSO Table II
2021-75         12-28-2021  30.02
2022-01         1-25-2022   TSO Table II
2022-07         2-22-2022   TSO Table II
2022-13         3-22-2022   TSO Table II
2022-15         4-26-2022   TSO Table II
2022-24         6-14-2022   TSO Table II
2022-25         6-28-2022   37.28
                            150.35-
2022-29         6-28-2022   150.49,
                            150.99
2022-30         6-28-2022   37.25
2022-31         6-28-2022   153.01
2022-32         6-28-2022   153.01
2022-34         7-26-2022   153.01
2022-40         8-23-2022   TSO Table II
2022-41         8-23-2022   TSO Table II
Council 2022-42 8-23-2022   38.01
2022-49         9-27-2022   Ch. 73 Schd. I
2022-54         12-27-2022  TSO Table II
2022-55         12-27-2022  TSO Table II
2023-02         1-10-2023   Ch. 72, Schd. II
2023-03         1-24-2023   TSO Table II
2023-05         2-14-2023   30.01
2023-05-A       2-28-2023   TSO Table II
2023-11         3-14-2023   70.15-
                            70.34
2023-17         5-23-2023   39.04
2023-18         6-27-2023   TSO Table II
2023-19         6-27-2023   TSO Table II
2023-20         7-11-2023   Ch. 72, Schd. II
2023-26         8-22-2023   TSO Table II
2023-27         8-22-2023   TSO Table II
2023-34         10-24-2023  TSO Table II
2023-40         11-8-2023   TSO Table II
2023-41         11-8-2023   TSO Table II
2023-42         11-14-2023  TSO Table II
                            152.001-
                            152.008;
                            152.020-
                            152.026;
                            152.040-
                            152.046;
2023-45         12-12-2023  152.060-
                            152.063;
                            152.075-
                            152.079;
                            152.090-
                            152.099;
                            152.110-
                            152.113
2024-05         11-14-2023  TSO Table VI
2024-07         3-26-2024   37.27
2024-08         3-26-2024   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2024-09         3-26-2024   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2024-16         4-23-2024   153.01
2024-22         6-25-2024   50.01;
                            50.99
2024-23         6-25-2024   Ch. 72 Schd. II
2024-24         6-25-2024   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2024-26         7-23-2024   TSO Table II
2024-28         8-13-2024   Ch. 72 Schd. III
2024-29         8-13-2024   Ch. 72 Schd. III
Council 2024-30 9-17-2024   38.01
2024-34         8-27-2024   153.01;
                            TSO Table II
2024-36         9-10-2024   Ch. 72 Schd. IV
2024-40         9-24-2024   Ch. 72 Schd. IV
2024-41         10-8-2024   37.28
2024-46         11-12-2024  Ch. 72 Schd. III
2024-47         11-12-2024  37.26
2024-49         11-26-2024  TSO Table II
2024-50         12-10-2024  50.01;
                            50.99
                           
 
 
