HOWARD COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-15 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-BCCO-33, passed 8-7-23; and
State legislation current through Legislative Service, 2023 Acts, Pamphlet No.
3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
   HOWARD COUNTY OFFICIALS
HOWARD COUNTY OFFICIALS
HOWARD COUNTY OFFICIALS
(2023)
Board of County Commissioners
Robert B. Bray , President, District 3
Jack Dodd , Vice President, District 2
Jeff Lipinski , Member, District 1
County Council
John Roberts, President, District 1
Daryl Maple, Vice President, At Large
Frank Faulkner, Member, District 2
Tim Cuthbert, Member, District 3
Bryan Alexander, Member District 4
Martha Lake, Member, At Large
Brett Sanders, Member At Large
County Attorney
Alan D. Wilson, County Attorney
County Auditor
Jessica Secrease
County Treasurer
Christie Branch
Plan Commission Director
Greg Sheline
Plan Commission Members
Cheryl Graham, President                          Mike Imbler, Vice President
Jack Dodd                                         Jennifer Jack
Tim Cuthbert                                      Greg Lake
Mikki Jeffers                                     Josh Boxell
Santos Salinas
                         Alan D. Wilson, Attorney
                         Board of Zoning Appeals
Michael Imbler, Chair                             Dick Byrum, Vice-Chair
Mike Schroeder                                    Russ Hopkins
Greg Tipton
                         Alan D. Wilson, Attorney
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 1998-BCC-13
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE HOWARD COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
   ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
   HOWARD COUNTY, INDIANA, CODIFYING, REVISING,
   REARRANGING, COMPILING, RESTATING AND REENACTING
   CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF HOWARD COUNTY
   DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, I.C. 36-1-5-1, et seq. empowers and authorizes the legislative body
of a unit to codify, revise, rearrange, compile, restate and reenact the
ordinances of a unit into a complete and simplified code; and
   WHEREAS, the Howard County Board of Commissioners has authorized and caused
to be printed such a general codification in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is in the best interests of Howard County that such codification
be adopted.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of Howard
County as follows:
Section 1: The general ordinances of Howard County as codified, revised,
rearranged, compiled, restated and reenacted by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation in book form are hereby adopted as and shall constitute the "Code
of Howard County."
Section 2: Such Code of Howard County as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
      Title I:      General Provisions
      Title III:      Administration
      Title V:    Public Works
      Title VII:   Traffic Code
      Title IX:   General Regulations
      Title XI:   Business Regulations
      Title XIII:   General Offenses
      Title XV:   Land Usage
      Table of Special Ordinances
      Parallel References
      Index
Section 3: It is hereby determined and declared that the ordinances compiled in
such Code of Howard County are restatements and reenactments of original
ordinances or amendments thereof, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-5-6. All ordinances of
a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances pertaining to subjects
not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
Section 4: Such Code of Howard County shall constitute presumptive evidence in
any legal proceedings as set forth in I.C. 36-1-5-5.
Section 5: Such Code of Howard County shall be in full force and effect, and
shall be deemed published, as of the day of its adoption by the Board of
Commissioners of Howard County. A copy of such Code of Howard County shall at
all times be maintained by the Auditor of Howard County and shall be
distributed to such other County departments, agencies and officials as the
Board of Commissioners deems appropriate.
   Adopted this 2nd day of March, 1998
                           HOWARD COUNTY BOARD
                           OF COMMISSIONERS
                           David A. Griffey /s/
                           David A. Griffey, President
                           John B. Harbaugh /s/
                           John B. Harbaugh, Member
                           Bradley J. Bagwell /s/
                           Bradley J. Bagwell, Member
Attest:
Martha Lake /s/
Martha Lake, Auditor
Note: Publish one time in Kokomo Tribune and Kokomo Herald.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time; reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.98   Ordinance Violations Bureau; schedule of civil penalties
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for Howard County, Indiana, shall be
designated as the “Code of Howard County” and may be so cited.
(`83 Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern in the
interpretation of this code as those governing in the interpretation of state
law.
(`83 Code, § 10.02(A))
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(`83 Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto re-enacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws re-enacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and re-enacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing law refer to the new code numbers assigned to that law.
   (G)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification in any official
publication to more clearly indicate its content. The descriptive headings are
for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application or
construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (H)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of such persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving such authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular. The use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of County Commissioners.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the County.
   CODE or CODE OF ORDINANCES. The Howard County Code of ordinances as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
   COUNCIL. The County Council.
   COUNTY. Howard County, Indiana.
   HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
   MAY. The term is permissive.
   MONTH. One calendar month.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or a part
of the building or land, either alone or with others.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, fiduciary or
governmental entity.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every type of property except real property.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. Means the Police Department of the county, and may also
be referred to as the Police Force.
   POPULATION. The population according to the most recent federal special or
decennial census. This definition applies even if the reference is to the most
recent federal decennial census.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
   PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. The term includes all lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   SHALL. The term is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines of the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   STREET. Except as may otherwise be provided in the Traffic Code, the entire
width between property lines of every way or place of whatever nature when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public as a matter of right.
   WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Shall include printing, lithographing or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person's
mark.
   YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(`83 Code, § 10.05)
Cross-reference:
   State definitions, see I.C. 1-1-4-5
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The provisions of this act are severable in the manner provided by
I.C. 1-1-1-8(b).
   (E)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) does not affect the operation of division
(B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8) (`83 Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(`83 Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this county exercising
the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of
any transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(`83 Code, § 10.11)
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any county ordinance or resolution refers
to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated, or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
resolution or subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities
placed with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity, then
such named board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality, whether or not correctly named in the ordinance
or resolution at its effective date, means that correctly named entity or the
entity to which such duties, liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
(`83 Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME; REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal law,
shall be the official time within the county of the transaction of all county
business.
(`83 Code, § 10.13)
   (B)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (C)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(`83 Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
such section unless the repealing section so expressly provides. Such section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1) (`83 Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and re-enacted by this code shall not be affected
by the repeal and re-enactment, but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(`83 Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(`83 Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   (1)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and
passage date of the original ordinance and the three most recent amending
ordinances, if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
Example:   (Ord. 1960-1, passed 1-1-60; Am. Ord. 1970-1, passed 1-1-70; Am.
Ord. 1980-1, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 1985-1, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   The designation “BCC” indicates an ordinance originally enacted by
the Board of County Commissioners, while “CC” indicates an ordinance originally
enacted by the County Council.
Example:   (BCC Ord. 1980-1, passed 1-1-80)
      (CC Ord. 1985-1, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:   (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 1985-1, passed
1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This county shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         For provisions concerning inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-
3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the county published in 1983 and subsequently amended, the 1983
code section number shall be indicated in the history.
Example:   (`83 Code, § 30.01)
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued and the punishments, penalties or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.98 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU; SCHEDULE OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby established an Ordinance Violations Bureau, and the
Clerk of the Howard Circuit Court, by virtue of office, is hereby appointed
the Violations Clerk to be the administrator of the Bureau. The Violations
Clerk shall serve without any additional salary.
   (B)   The Violations Clerk may accept written appearances, waivers of trial,
admission of violations, and payment of civil penalties of not more than $100
in ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule herein prescribed.
   (C)   Upon the admission of a violation, the following civil penalties shall
be assessed:
      (1)   Parking violations, first offense - $10.
      (2)   Parking violations, second offense and subsequent offenses - $25.
      (3)   Dog ordinance violations (Chapter 90), citations only, first
offense - $10.
      (4)   Dog ordinance violations (Chapter 90), citations only, for each
subsequent offense - $10 plus $5 for each subsequent offense.
      (5)   Violation of §
130.03 in the amount of $50 for the first violation, and the amount of $75 for
each subsequent violation.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the rights of
trial to a person charged with an ordinance violation. If a person charged with
an ordinance violation wants to exercise the right to trial, the person shall
appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or enter a written
denial with the Violations Clerk.
   (E)   If a person denies an ordinance violation, fails to satisfy a civil
penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk after having entered an admission of
violation, or fails to deny or admit the violation, the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the County Attorney, who may then initiate proceedings in
court against the person for the alleged ordinance violation.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to limit the
county from proceeding to enforce any ordinance by a separate proceeding or to
limit the civil penalty which may be assessed by or through such separate
proceedings.
   (G)   Any other ordinance of the county, to the extent that is in direct
conflict with this section, is repealed to that extent only.
   (H)   All sums collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for
ordinance violations shall be accounted for and paid to the County Treasurer
for deposit in the county's General Fund.
(BCC Ord. 1988-8, passed 6-20-88; Am. Ord. 1999-BCC-35, passed 8-16-99)
Cross-reference:
   Dog regulations, see
Chapter 90
   Parking schedules, see
Chapter 72
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau authorized, see I.C. 33-6-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
10.98, any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(`83 Code, § 10.99)
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS AND COUNTY COUNCIL
      
31.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
32.   POLICE FORCE
      
33.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
      
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
36.   COUNTY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS AND COUNTY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Rules for the transaction of business at council meetings
   
30.02   Procedure for scheduling and conduct of meetings and transaction of
business
Elections
   
30.15   Councilmanic districts; County Commissioner districts
   
30.16   Election Sheriff abolished; transfer of duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 RULES FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Rule #1: Filing of proposed resolutions or ordinance prior to
meetings.
      (1)   At any regular or special meeting of the County Council, the
Council shall consider only proposed ordinances and resolutions which are
places upon the Council agenda in accordance with this Rule #1. A proposed
ordinance or resolution shall not be placed upon the agenda for consideration
by the Council unless:
         (a)   The original of such proposed ordinance or resolution has been
filed with the County Auditor and a copy mailed to the Council President and
the County Attorney ten days before the Council meeting at which its
consideration is desired;
         (b)   The Council President has authorized the County Auditor to place
such proposed ordinance or resolution upon the agenda; and
         (c)   It has been properly advertised, if required.
      (2)   Provided, that the Council may for good cause suspend this Rule #1
as to any such proposed ordinance or resolution by a two-thirds vote of all the
elected members of the Council. Provided further that this Rule #1 shall not
apply to ordinances or resolutions drafted or sponsored by the County Auditor,
a County Council Member, the Board of County Commissioners or the County
Attorney.
   (B)   Rule #2: Distribution of Council agenda. Prior to any regular or
special meeting of the County Council, the County Auditor shall comply with the
notice requirements of the Indiana Open Door Law (I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.).
Additionally, at least three days prior to any such meeting, the County Auditor
shall mail to each council member and the County Attorney a copy of the meeting
agenda together with a copy of each ordinance or resolution on the agenda.
Thereafter, the agenda shall not be amended or changed without the approval of
the Council President.
(CC Ord. 1994-19, passed 4-26-94)
§ 30.02 PROCEDURE FOR SCHEDULING AND CONDUCT OF MEETINGS AND TRANSACTION OF
BUSINESS.
   (A)   Rule No. 1: Scheduling of Meetings. (Ref. I.C. 36-2-4-10)
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Howard County Board of Commissioners shall
be held on the first
Monday of each month at 4:00 p.m. (commencing February 2, 2009) and the third
Monday of each month at 8:30 a.m. When the first or third Monday falls upon a
county holiday, the meeting shall be held on the following day. Annual notice
of regular meetings shall be given by the Auditor as required by I.C. 5-14-1.5-
5(c).
      (2)   A special meeting of the Board of Commissioners may be called by a
member of the Board pursuant to I.C. 36-2-2-8. A six-day public notice shall be
given as required by I.C. 36-2-2-8(b); and a 48-hour public notice shall be
given as required by I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(a).
      (3)   An Executive Session of the Board of Commissioners may be called by
a member of the Board pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1. A 48-hour public notice
shall be given as required by I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(a) and I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1(d).
      (4)   An Administrative Meeting of the Board of Commissioners as defined
and limited by I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(f)(2) may be called by a member of the Board
without public notice. However, all such meetings are open to the public and an
agenda shall be posted as required by I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a).
      (5)   An emergency meeting of the Board of Commissioners may be called by
a member of the Board by giving such notice as is required by I.C. 5-14-1.5-5
(d)
   (B)   Rule No. 2: Minutes or Memoranda. Minutes or memoranda of all meetings
shall be kept as required by I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1(d); and
shall be submitted to the Board for approval at its next regular meeting.
   (C)   Rule No. 3: Advance Execution of Documents.
      (1)   Definitions. As used in this Rule;
         DOCUMENT shall mean any written contract, notice, application, report,
letter and the like requiring the approval and execution by the Board of
Commissioners. It shall not include an ordinance or non-ceremonial resolution.
         CEREMONIAL RESOLUTION shall mean a resolution or proclamation honoring
or recognizing a person, event or organization (e.g., a resolution honoring a
local sports team).
         TIME SENSITIVE shall mean a situation where delay until the next
regular Board meeting would materially prejudice the interests of Howard County
(e.g., a deadline for submitting a grant application).
      (2)   Execution of time-sensitive document. Any one Commissioner may
execute a time-sensitive document if he: (1) has good reason to believe that
the Board will ratify his signature and approve the document at the next
regular Board Meeting; and (2) obtains the prior approval of the County
Attorney or Assistant County Attorney.
      (3)   Execution of ceremonial resolution. Any one or more of the
Commissioners may execute a Ceremonial Resolution if it is to be read or
presented prior to the next regular Board Meeting.
      (4)   Confirmation. The Commissioner executing a time-sensitive document,
and all Commissioners executing a Ceremonial Resolution, shall be responsible
for presenting it to the Board for ratification and approval at the next
regular Board Meeting.
(Ord. BCC-2010-5, passed 3-15-10)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.15 COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS; COUNTY COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-3-4, the county is hereby divided into the
following four councilmanic districts:
 
District City Precincts                                    County Precincts
                                                           Center B
                                                           Center C
                                                           Center D
                                                           Howard A
         1HOW1                                             Howard B
         305, 405                                          Jackson
1        4TAY1                                             Liberty A
         5TAY1                                             Liberty B
         5TAY2                                             Liberty C
         5TAY3                                             Liberty D
                                                           Taylor A
                                                           Taylor B
                                                           Taylor C
                                                           Union
         502, 503                                          Harrison A
         5HAR1                                             Harrison B
2        5HAR2                                             Harrison C
         5HAR3                                             Honey Creek A
         605, 606, 607                                     Honey Creek B
         6HAR1                                             Monroe
3        102, 104, 106, 107, 108, 205, 301, 302, 303, 304, None
         306, 307, 401, 402, 403, 404, 501
                                                           Center A
         101, 103, 105, 201, 202, 203, 204, 206, 601, 602, Clay A
4        603, 604, 1CLAY1                                  Clay B
         1CLAY2                                            Clay C
                                                           Ervin A
                                                           Ervin B
 
(`83 Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 1981-26, passed 12-28-81; Am. BCC Ord. 1991-37,
passed 12-16-91; Am. Ord. 2005-BCC-37, passed 8-3-05; Am. Ord. 2013-BCCO-34,
passed 12-16-13)
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-2-4 and 36-2-2-4.7, the County Commissioner
election districts for the county are hereby divided and established as
follows:
      (1)   District 1. Clay, Ervin, Harrison, Honey Creek and Monroe
Townships.
      (2)   District 2. Center Township.
      (3)   District 3. Howard, Jackson, Liberty, Taylor and Union Townships.
(Ord. BCC-1997-54, passed 12-15-97; Am. Ord. 2011-BCCO-30, passed 12-5-11; Am.
Ord. 2011-BCCO-31, passed 12-5-11; Am. Res. 2023 BCCR-3, passed 3-6-23; Am.
Res. 2023 BCCR-12, passed 8-7-23)
§ 30.16 ELECTION SHERIFF ABOLISHED; TRANSFER OF DUTIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-6-6-5(b), all positions of Election Sheriffs are
hereby eliminated from theelection process in the county in all precincts until
further order of the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   The Judges of each precinct in the county shall perform the duties and
have the rights of Election Sheriffs in all precincts of the county until
further order of the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. BCC-1996-54, passed 9-3-96)
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
31.01   Building Department
   
31.02   Conventions, Visitors and Tourism Commission
   
31.03   Data Processing Study and Advisory Committee
   
31.04   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
31.05   Traffic Commission
   
31.06   Department of Redevelopment, Redevelopment Commission and the
Redevelopment Authority
   
31.07   Department of Economic Development and the Economic Development
Commission
   
31.08   Public Defender Board
   
31.09   Department of Stormwater Management; Special Stormwater Taxing District
   
31.10   Department of Emergency Management; Advisory Council
Cross-reference:
   Police Force, see §
32.01
   Sheriff’s Merit Board, see §
32.02
   Solid Waste Management District, see §
50.01
§ 31.01 BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-8-2, there is hereby established a
Department of Buildings and the Office of Building Commissioner, which shall be
composed of the Building Commissioner, inspectors and such other personnel as
the Board of County Commissioners shall determine.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall have the power to administer and
enforce any and all ordinances or codes adopted now or hereafter by the Board
of County Commissioners that regulate construction, enlargement, repair,
alteration, relocation and use of building, heating, ventilation, air
conditioning, and electrical and plumbing construction.
   (C)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the
Board of County Commissioners may employ such additional personnel in the
Department as may be necessary.
(`83 Code, § 32.04) (Ord. 1977-41, passed 1-30-78)
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations generally, see
Chapter 150
§ 31.02 CONVENTIONS, VISITORS AND TOURISM COMMISSION.
   (A)   Commission created. Effective January 1, 2014 and pursuant to I.C. 6-
9-18-5(a), there is hereby created the Howard County Conventions, Visitors and
Tourism Commission (“Commission”).
   (B)   Members. The Commission shall consist of nine members meeting the
following qualifications, requirements and/or restrictions:
      (1)   Each member must reside in Howard County;
      (2)   A simple majority of the members must be either:
         (a)   Engaged in a convention, visitor or tourism business (which may
include a restaurant or catering business, a museum, or a hotel or motel
business); or
         (b)   Involved in promoting conventions, visitors or tourism;
      (3)   Not more than one member may be affiliated with the same business
entity;
      (4)   No more than a simple majority of the members may be affiliated
with the same political party; and
      (5)   If available and willing to serve, at least two members must be
engaged in the business of renting or furnishing rooms, lodging or
accommodations, which for the purposes of this section shall include a hotel or
motel business.
   (C)   Appointment. Subject to division (B) of this section, the appointment
of the members shall be made in the following manner:
      (1)   The Mayor of Kokomo shall appoint six members, three of whom must
be engaged in a convention, visitor or tourism business or involved in
promoting conventions, visitors or tourism; and at least one of those three
members must be engaged in the business of renting or furnishing rooms, lodging
or accommodations.
      (2)   The Howard County Board of Commissioners shall appoint three
members, two of whom must be engaged in a convention, visitor or tourism
business or involved in promoting conventions, visitors or tourism; and at
least one of those two members must be engaged in the business of renting or
furnishing rooms, lodging or accommodations.
      (3)   All appointments shall be reported in writing to the Howard County
Auditor prior to the commencement of the terms. The Mayor and Board of
Commissioners shall coordinate all appointments made to insure compliance with
the requirements of divisions (B)(3) and (4) of this section; any disagreement
regarding this coordination shall be resolved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Terms, vacancies and removal.
      (1)   All terms of office of Commission members shall commence on January
1, beginning January 1, 2014.
      (2)   The term of each member shall be two years; provided, however, the
initial terms shall be staggered in the following manner:
         (a)   The Mayor of Kokomo shall appoint three members for one year and
three members for two years; and
         (b)   The Howard County Board of Commissioners shall appoint one
member for one year and two members for two years.
      (3)   A member whose term expires may be reappointed to serve another
term at the discretion of the appointing authority.
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a
qualified person (whose appointment will maintain the requirements of division
(B) of this section) to serve for the remainder of the term. If a vacancy is
not filled within 30 days, the Commission shall appoint such a replacement by a
majority vote.
      (5)   A member of the Commission may be removed for cause by his or her
appointing authority.
   (E)   Powers and organization.
      (1)   The Commission shall have the powers enumerated in I.C. 6-9-18-6
(a).
      (2)   The Commission shall meet after January 1 each year for the purpose
of organization. It shall elect one of its members president, another vice
president, another secretary, and another treasurer. The members elected to
those offices shall perform the duties pertaining to the offices. The first
officers chosen shall serve from the date of their election until their
successors are elected and qualified. A majority of the Commission constitutes
a quorum, and the concurrence of a majority of the Commission is necessary to
authorize any action.
      (3)   The Commission may adopt such by-laws as it deems appropriate so
long as they do not conflict with any provision of the Uniform Act or this
section.
   (F)   Expenditures. The Commission shall adhere to the requirements of I.C.
6-9-18-6(b) with regard to all payments and expenditures. No expenditure shall
be made by the Commission unless it is in accordance with an appropriation made
by the Howard County Council in the manner provided by law.
   (G)   Disposition of funds. All money coming into possession of the
Commission shall be deposited, held, secured, invested, and paid in accordance
with statutes relating to the handling of public funds. The handling and
expenditure of money coming into possession of the Commission is subject to
audit and supervision by the State Board of Accounts.
   (H)   Meetings. The Commission is deemed to be a governing body of a public
agency and subject to the requirements of the Indiana Open Door Law (I.C. 5-14-
1.5-1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2013-BCCO-35, passed 12-16-13)
§ 31.03 DATA PROCESSING STUDY AND ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   A Data Processing Study and Advising Committee is created consisting of the
following members:
   (A)   The County Auditor.
   (B)   The County Treasurer.
   (C)   The County Assessor.
   (D)   A member of the Board of County Commissioners.
   (E)   The City Controller of each city of the second class within the
county.
   (F)   A representative of each municipal utility within the county.
   (G)   A representative of each municipal community school corporation and
metropolitan school district within such county.
   (H)   Such other and further members as may be appointed or provided for by
the Board of County Commissioners.
(`83 Code, § 32.08) (Res. passed 10-4-71)
§ 31.04 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   The Howard County Park and Recreation Board shall be re-established
in accordance with I.C. 36-10-3, and the Board shall be composed of the
following:
         (a)   Two members appointed by the Judge of the Circuit Court.
         (b)   One member appointed by the Board of County Commissioners.
         (c)   Two members appointed by the County Council.
         (d)   The County Extension Committee shall select one of its members,
the County Extension Coordinator, or the County Extension Agent to serve as an
ex officio board member.
         (e)   The Mayor of the City of Kokomo shall appoint one person as an
ex officio board member. The member appointed by the Mayor must be affiliated
with a different political party than the member appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners.
      (2)   Members appointed under divisions (1)(a), (1)(b), and (1)(c) shall
be appointed on the basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and
recreation but no more than one member appointed under divisions (1)(a) and (1)
(c) shall be affiliated with the same political party.
      (3)   Ex officio board members have all the rights of regular members,
including the right to vote.
   (B)   Terms.
      (1)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms of its members shall be
as follows:
         (a)   The appointments by the Circuit Court Judge shall be one-and
three-year terms, respectively.
         (b)   The appointment by the Board of County Commissioners shall be
for a two-year term.
         (c)   The appointments by the Council shall be for two- and four-year
terms, respectively.
         (d)   The appointment by the Mayor shall be coterminous with the
Mayor’s term of office.
      (2)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be for a four-year
term. All terms shall expire on the first Monday in January, but a member shall
continue in office until his or her successor is appointed. The appointing
authorities shall make initial appointments within 90 days after the creation
of the Department. If an appointment for any new term is not made by the first
Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy on the
Board occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a person to serve for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (C)   Officers. At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall
elect a President and a Vice-President. The Vice- President shall have
authority to act as the President of the Board during the absence or disability
of the President. The Board may select a Secretary either from within or
without its own membership.
   (D)   Powers. The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary
to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have all the powers and duties listed in I.C. 36-10-3.
   (E)   Annual budget. The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in
the same manner as other departments of the county government as prescribed by
the State Board of Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations and
subsidies for park and recreation purposes.
(`83 Code, § 32.09) (Ord. 1966-27, passed 2-16-66; Am. Ord. 1972-2, passed 3-7-
72; Am. Ord. 1976-3, passed 2-17-76; Am. Ord. 1982-23, passed 12-14-82)
Cross-reference:
   Parks and recreation, see
Chapter 93
Statutory reference:
   Composition of Department, see I.C. 36-10-3-4
§ 31.05 TRAFFIC COMMISSION.
   A County Traffic Commission is created, and shall consist of the following
members: the County Engineer-Supervisor, the County Sheriff, the Director of
the County Plan Commission, a representative of the Kokomo Police Department,
one citizen member appointed by the Board of County Commissioners, and a
representative of the Board of County Commissioners.
(`83 Code, § 32.15) (Res. passed 11-4-57)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
§ 31.06 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT, REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION AND THE
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14-3, the Board of County Commissioners hereby
establishes the County Department of Redevelopment for the purposes and to
exercise the powers set forth in the Act, being I.C. 36-7-14-1 et seq., or
otherwise granted by law. The Department of Redevelopment will be controlled by
a board of five members to be known as the Redevelopment Commission, each of
whom shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14.5-7, there is hereby created as a separate
body corporate and politic and as an instrumentality of the county the
Redevelopment Authority for the purposes and to exercise the powers set forth
in the Act, being 36-7-14.5-1 et seq., or otherwise granted by law. The
Redevelopment Authority shall be governed by a Board of Directors consisting of
three members, each of whom shall be appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners.
(BCC Ord. 1996-35, passed 7-15-96)
Cross-reference:
   Economic development, see
T.S.O. I
§ 31.07 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-4, the County Council hereby establishes the
County Department of Economic Development with the powers to finance economic
development or pollution control facilities under the Act.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-7, the Department will be controlled by a
board to be known as the County Economic Commission. The Commission will
consist of three members; one member to be selected by the Board of County
Commissioners, one member nominated by the County Council and one member
nominated by the Common Council of the City of Kokomo, each of whom shall be
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners.
(BCC Ord. 2001-14, passed 2-27-01)
Cross-reference:
   Economic development, see
T.S.O. I
§ 31.08 PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 33-40-7-3, the County Public Defender Board
(“Board”) is hereby established.
   (B)   The Board shall consist of three members appointed in accordance with
I.C. 33-40-7-3(a) and (b), with terms as designated in I.C. 33-40-7-3(c).
   (C)   The Board shall have the duties and authority as set forth in I.C. 33-
40-7-6, and shall conduct business as specified in I.C. 33-40-7-3(d) and (e).
   (D)   As set forth in I.C. 33-40-7-3(f), the County Executive may terminate
the Board.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-49, passed 12-20-04)
§ 31.09 DEPARTMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT; SPECIAL STORMWATER TAXING
DISTRICT.
   (A)   Adoption of statutory provisions. In compliance with I.C. 8-1.5-5-4.5
and I.C. 8-1.5-5-5, the Commissioners hereby adopt and incorporate herein by
reference the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-5-1 through I.C. 8-1.5-5-32, inclusive,
as from time to time amended (“Act”).
   (B)   Department of Stormwater Management. Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-4.5,
there is hereby created and established the Howard County Department of
Stormwater Management (“Department”). The Department shall be controlled and
managed by a Board of Directors consisting of the three members of the Board of
Commissioners and the County Surveyor, all pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-4.5(b)
(“Board”). The Board shall have the powers specified under I.C. 8-1.5-5-6,
together with all other authority, powers, duties and responsibilities set
forth in the Act.
   (C)   Special taxing district. Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-5, there is hereby
created and established a special taxing district, to be known as the Howard
County Stormwater Management District (“District”). The jurisdiction of the
District shall include all territory of Howard County that is not located
within the territorial boundaries of the City of Kokomo, Town of Greentown, and
Town of Russiaville. Under I.C. 8-1.5-5-5, the District shall have the power to
levy a special user fee for the purposes of storm water collection and
disposal, together with all other authority, powers, duties and
responsibilities set forth in the Act.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-29, passed 9-15-08)
§ 31.10 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Creation of Department and Advisory Council. Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-
17(b)(1), there is hereby created and established the Howard County Department
of Emergency Management (“Department”) and the Howard County Emergency
Management Advisory Council (“Council”).
   (B)   Council membership; Chairman.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17(c), the Council shall consist of the
following individuals or their designees:
         (a)   The President of the Howard County Board of Commissioners;
         (b)   The President of the Howard County Council;
         (c)   The Mayor of the City of Kokomo;
         (d)   An individual appointed jointly by and representing the
Russiaville Town Council and the Greentown Town Council;
         (e)   Any representative or representatives of private or public
agencies or organizations that the Council, in its sole discretion, deems
necessary to assist the Department; and
         (f)   One commander of a local Howard County civil air patrol unit or
the commander’s designee, to be appointed by the Council in its sole
discretion.
      (2)   The President of the Howard County Board of Commissioners or his or
her designee shall serve as the Chairman of the Council. Any designee of a
member shall be appointed in writing signed by the member and delivered to the
Council Chairman.
   (C)   Council responsibilities and powers. The Council shall have the
following responsibilities and powers:
      (1)   Exercise general supervision and control over the emergency
management and disaster program of Howard County.
      (2)   Select or cause to be selected, with the approval of the Howard
County Board of Commissioners, a county Emergency Management and Disaster
Director (“Director”) who:
         (a)   Has direct responsibility for the organization, administration,
and operation of the Department and the emergency management program in Howard
County; and
         (b)   Is responsible to the Chairman of the Council.
   (D)   Department responsibilities. Under the supervision of the Council and
Director, the Department shall be responsible for operating and administering
an emergency management program for Howard County.
   (E)   Funding. As required by I.C. 10-14-3-17(b)(1) and (g), the Howard
County Council shall provide adequate funding for the effective operation of
the Department.
   (F)   County employees. The Director and all employees of the Department
shall be Howard County employees.
(Ord. 2012-BCCO-36, passed 12-27-12)
Cross-reference:
   Emergency management, see
Ch. 35
CHAPTER 32: POLICE FORCE
Section
   
32.01   Police Force created
   
32.02   Sheriff’s Merit Board
   
32.03   Sheriff’s work program
   
32.04   Sheriff’s reserve deputy program
   
32.05   Sheriff’s Department reserve deputies
Cross-reference:
   Emergency management, see
Chapter 35
   Sheriff’s School/Training Fund, see §
33.31
§ 32.01 POLICE FORCE CREATED.
   (A)   There is created the County Police Force, whose members shall be
employees of the county, and whose activities shall be directed by the County
Sheriff according to law (see I.C. 36-8-10-2, 36-8-10-3, and 36-8-10-4). The
expenses of the County Police Force herein created shall be a part of the
Sheriff’s budget, and the salaries and number of its personnel shall be
determined by the County Sheriff’s Merit Board with the approval of the County
Council.
   (B)   Each member of the County Police Force shall have general police
powers and be a conservator of the peace within the county; shall arrest,
without process, all persons who, within his or her view, shall commit any
crime or misdemeanor, take them before the nearest justice of the peace or
magistrate of the county, and detain them in custody until the cause of the
arrest has been investigated; and suppress all breaches of the peace within his
or her knowledge. Each member is hereby given authority to call to his or her
aid the power of the county; pursue and commit to the county jail all felons;
execute all process directed to the County Sheriff by legal authority; attend
upon and preserve order in all courts of record of the county, except justices’
courts; and guard prisoners in the county jail. Each member is hereby empowered
to serve all process directed to the Sheriff from the circuit court, superior
court, or from the Board of County Commissioners, according to law.
   (C)   Any member of the County Police Force who becomes Sheriff either by
election or by appointment shall, upon the expiration of the term and upon his
or her written application, be appointed by the Sheriff’s Merit Board to the
rank in the County Police Force which he or she held at the time of his or her
election or appointment as Sheriff, provided there is a vacancy in the County
Police Force. If the Sheriff during his or her tenure of office has qualified
in accordance with promotional procedure, as prescribed by the Sheriff’s Merit
Board in its rules and regulations, for any rank in the County Police Force
which is higher than the rank he or she previously held, the Sheriff’s Merit
Board shall upon expiration of his or her term as Sheriff, appoint him or her
for the rank for which he or she has qualified, under promotional procedure;
provided, however, that there is a vacancy in such rank.
   (D)   The County Sheriff shall, with the approval of the Sheriff’s Merit
Board, establish a classification of ranks, grades and positions for county
police officers in the County Police Force. For each rank, grade and position
so established, the Sheriff, with the approval of the Sheriff’s Merit Board,
shall set reasonable standards of qualifications and fix the prerequisites of
training, education, and experience. The Sheriff, with the approval of the
Sheriff’s Merit Board, shall devise and administer examinations designed to
test applicants as to the qualifications required for the respective ranks,
grades or positions, and only those applicants who, in the opinion of the
Sheriff and the Sheriff’s Merit Board, best meet the recognized standards and
prerequisites shall be appointed. All county police officers appointed to the
County Police Force under this section shall be probationers and on probation
for one year from the date of the appointment.
   (E)   The Sheriff may discharge, demote or temporarily suspend any county
police officer for cause after preferring charges in writing and after a fair
public hearing before the Sheriff’s Merit Board, reviewable by the circuit
court, a notice of which charges and hearings shall be delivered by certified
mail to the county police officer to be discharged, demoted or temporarily
suspended. The county police officer may be represented by counsel. The Sheriff
may temporarily suspend without a hearing before the Sheriff’s Merit Board any
county police officer, after preferring charges of misconduct in writing
delivered to the county police officer, for a period not to exceed 15 days. No
county police officer shall be discharged, demoted or temporarily suspended
because of political affiliation, nor shall any county police officer be
discharged, demoted or temporarily suspended after his or her probationary
period except as provided in this section. For the purpose of hearings provided
in this section, the Sheriff’s Merit Board shall have subpoena powers
enforceable by the circuit court. Probationers may be discharged by the Sheriff
without right to hearing.
   (F)   All deputy sheriffs who, upon the taking of effect of this section,
shall have served for more than one year shall be deemed qualified to serve as
county police officers, except that all those holding superior rank, grade or
position as deputy sheriffs, upon the taking of effect of this section, must be
approved by the Sheriff and the Sheriff’s Merit Board before assuming such
superior rank, grade or position as county police officer. Deputies having
served one or more years upon the taking effect of this section shall be deemed
to have passed their probationary period for county police officer.
(`83 Code, § 32.13) (Ord. 1969-11A, passed 9-4-69)
§ 32.02 SHERIFF’S MERIT BOARD.
   (A)   A Sheriff’s Merit Board is hereby created and shall hereafter be known
as the “Howard County Sheriff’s Merit Board.” The Board shall hereafter have
all of the powers and duties set out in I.C. 36-8-10-3, and the terms of this
statute shall be binding upon the County Sheriff, his or her successors, and
the County Police Force created and defined in §
32.01.
   (B)   The Sheriff’s Merit Board shall consist of five members. Three members
shall be appointed by the Sheriff, and two members shall be elected by a
majority vote of the members of the County Police Force under procedures
established by the Sheriff’s Merit Board; however, an active county police
officer, a relative (as defined in I.C. 26-1-20.2-8) of an active county police
officer, or a relative (as defined in I.C. 26-1-20.2-8) of the sheriff may not
serve on the Sheriff’s Merit Board, either as a member appointed by the sheriff
or elected by the county police force. The term of membership shall be as set
forth in I.C. 36-8-10-3 (see also the “Compiler’s Notes” following I.C. 36-8-
10-3 for regulations as to the original term). No more than two members
appointed by the Sheriff nor more than one of the members elected by the
officers may belong to the same political party. All members shall reside in
the county. All members shall serve during their respective terms and until
their respective successors have been appointed and qualified. Any member may
be removed for cause duly adjudicated by declaratory judgment of the circuit
court.
   (C)   As compensation for his or her service, each member of the Sheriff’s
Merit Board shall be entitled to receive from the county the sum of $15 per day
for each and every day, or fraction thereof during which he or she is engaged
in transaction of the business of the Sheriff’s Merit Board. As soon as
practicable after the members of the Sheriff’s Merit Board shall have been
appointed, they shall meet upon the call of the Sheriff, and shall organize by
the election of a President and a Secretary from among their own membership.
Three members of the Sheriff’s Merit Board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Sheriff’s Merit Board shall hold such regular
monthly meetings throughout the year as may be deemed necessary to transact the
business of the Police Force.
   (D)   The Sheriff’s Merit Board is hereby authorized to transfer the sidearm
of a County Deputy killed in the line of duty to his or her surviving spouse,
regardless of the officer’s eligibility for retirement benefits.
(`83 Code, § 32.14) (Ord. 1969-11A, passed 9-4-69; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-13,
passed 4-18-16)
Statutory reference:
   Sheriff’s merit board, see I.C. 36-8-10-3
§ 32.03 SHERIFF’S WORK PROGRAM.
   (A)   There is hereby established, and the County Sheriff is hereby
authorized to operate and administer, a Howard County Sheriff’s Work Program.
   (B)   The County Sheriff’s Work Program shall be described and constituted
as follows:
      (1)   To be eligible to participate in the Work Program, a person must
meet all of the following qualifications:
         (a)   He or she must have been committed to the Howard County Criminal
Justice Center upon conviction of a crime or adjudication of contempt;
         (b)   He or she must not have been restricted from participation in
such program by the sentencing court and must not have been convicted of a sex
offense under I.C. 35-42-4 or 35-46-3;
         (c)   He or she must volunteer for the Work Program; and
         (d)   He or she must be approved by the County Sheriff to participate
in the Work Program.
      (2)   Eligible prisoners shall not be released from custody to
participate in the Work Program, but shall at all times remain in the custody
of a County Sheriff’s deputy or deputies assigned to supervise such Work
Program.
      (3)   Eligible prisoners participating in the Work Program shall be paid
from Work Program revenues the sum of $1 for each day or part of a day during
which they participate in the Work Program.
      (4)   Eligible prisoners shall not be required to perform any hazardous,
demeaning or unreasonably strenuous work.
      (5)   To cover the expenses of the Work Program, the County Sheriff is
hereby authorized to charge those for whom services are performed the sum of
$45 per hour per crew of prisoners. All sums collected by the County Sheriff
under this provision shall be deposited in and disbursed from the fund
established in §
33.29.
(BCC Ord. 1997-44, passed 10-6-97; Am. Ord. BCC-2008-27, passed 8-18-08)
§ 32.04 SHERIFF’S RESERVE DEPUTY PROGRAM.
   (A)   Establishment. The Howard County Sheriff’s Reserve Deputy Program is
established to operate in accordance with I.C. 36-8-3-20 and this section.
   (B)   Number. The maximum number of reserve deputies is fixed at 20.
   (C)   Qualifications. To be eligible for appointment as a reserve deputy, a
person must:
      (1)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (2)   Not be an employee of the county;
      (3)   Successfully complete a pre-basic training course under I.C. 5-2-1-
9(f) and any other training required by rules established under division (F) of
this section; and
      (4)   Meet any other qualifications required by rules established under
division (F) of this section.
   (D)   Appointment and dismissal. Subject to division (C) of this section, a
reserve deputy shall be appointed by the County Sheriff and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Sheriff. A reserve deputy appointment may be terminated by the
County Sheriff at any time for any reason or for no reason at all.
   (E)   Status. A reserve deputy shall:
      (1)   Serve strictly as a volunteer without any compensation;
      (2)   Not be considered or construed as an employee of the County
Sheriff’s Department or the county for any reason or purpose;
      (3)   Not be eligible to participate in any pension program or be
entitled to any county benefits provided for regular members of the County
Sheriff’s Department except as provided in division (D)(4) of this section;
      (4)   As a volunteer, be entitled to medical benefits under the county’s
workers comprehensive coverage together with any extended accidental death or
disability coverage the county, in its sole discretion, may choose to provide;
      (5)   Have the same police powers as the regular deputies of the County
Sheriff’s Department except as modified or limited by rules or regulations
established pursuant to division (F) of this section.
      (6)   At the same time of appointment, execute a written form
acknowledging that he or she has read, understands and agrees to the provisions
of this section, and, in particular, divisions (D) and (E).
   (F)   Rules. The County Sheriff may from time to time adopt such rules and
regulations as he deems necessary and appropriate for the operation of the
Reserve Deputy Program, so long as such rules and regulations are not contrary
to or inconsistent with I.C. 36-8-3-20 or this section.
   (G)   Reserve Deputy Fund. Subject to the approval of the County Council,
there is hereby established as a line item in the Sheriff’s budget a Reserve
Deputy Fund. The purpose of this fund will be to receive and disburse monies to
operate and sustain the Reserve Deputy Program. Any payment received for
services rendered by a Reserve Deputy shall be deposited into this Fund.
Disbursements shall be made at the sole discretion of the Sheriff.
(Ord. BCC 2003-34, passed 8-4-03)
§ 32.05 SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT RESERVE DEPUTIES.
   (A)   Upon retirement after a minimum of ten years of service, a County
Sheriff’s Department Reserve Deputy shall be given ownership of his or her
department sidearm without charge if he or she:
      (1)   Is retiring in good standing and under honorable circumstances; and
      (2)   Is legally permitted to possess a firearm under Indiana law.
   (B)   Such transfer shall be in recognition of and appreciation for the
Reserve Deputy’s dedicated service to the county.
   (C)   The Board hereby delegates to the County Sheriff the authority to:
      (1)   Determine whether the retiring Reserve Deputy is in all respects
qualified for this recognition; and
      (2)   The authority to sign all documents and comply with all laws
necessary to effect legal transfer of the sidearm.
(Ord. 2016 BCCO-40, passed 11-7-16)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Membership dues; meeting expenses
   
33.02   Reproduction fees
   
33.03   Emergency telephone system fee
   
33.04   Plat book fund real property endorsement fees
   
33.05   Tax sale list fees
   
33.06   Supplemental recording fees
   
33.07   Sheriff’s Department copying fees
   
33.08   County Prosecutor’s copying fees
   
33.09   County Prosecutor’s bad check service charge collection fees
   
33.10   Fees for providing electronic data
   
33.11   Sex or violent offender registration and change of address fees
   
33.12   Internal control standards
   
33.13   County Coroner copying fees
Funds
   
33.25   County Corrections Fund
   
33.26   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
33.27   Cumulative Bridge Fund
   
33.28   Law Enforcement Fund
   
33.29   Work Program Fund
   
33.30   Public Defender Supplemental Fund
   
33.31   Sheriff’s School/Training Fund
   
33.32   Identification Security Protection Fund
   
33.33   Sheriff Deputy Benevolent Fund
   
33.34   Supplemental Public Defender Services Fund
   
33.35   Revolving Loan Fund
   
33.36   Recorder’s Enhanced Access Fund
   
33.37   Emergency Management Donations Fund
   
33.38   Health Department Discretionary Fund
   
33.39   Kinsey Lease Payment Fund
   
33.40   Veterans’ Court Donation Fund
   
33.41   Duke Energy Foundation Grant Fund
   
33.42   Meijer Opioid Settlement Fund
   
33.42-1   Opioid Settlement Funds
   
33.43   Martha Burge Drain Reconstruction Fund
   
33.44   READI Grant Fund
   
33.44-1   ARP Grant Fund
   
33.44-2   Cypersecurity Grant Fund
   
33.44-3   Keaton Acres Drain Escrow Fund
   
33.44-4   Health Issues and Challenges Fund
   
33.44-5   Title IV-E Reimbursement Fund
   
33.44-6   Impact Panel Grant Fund
   
33.44-7   L. Mendenhall Fast Track Reconstruction Fund
Taxation
   
33.45   Economic Development Income Tax imposed; capital improvement plan
adopted
   
33.46   Vehicle taxes: excise surtax and wheel tax
   
33.47   Innkeeper’s tax
   
33.48   Mobile home and property taxes; single payment if $25 or less
   
33.49   Fund for operation and maintenance of the County Jail and Juvenile
Detention Center
   
33.50   Application of property tax refunds to delinquent property taxes
   
33.51   Automatic monthly deductions for payment of property taxes
Cross-reference:
   Community Redevelopment, see §
31.06
   Convention and Visitor Commission, see §
31.02
   Health Department service fees established, see §§
92.15 et seq.
   Promotion fund, see §
31.02(F)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 MEMBERSHIP DUES; MEETING EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners is authorized to budget, and the
County Council is authorized to appropriate, funds from the General Fund or
from other funds to provide membership for the county and for the elected and
appointed officials and members of the county’s boards, council, departments,
or agencies in local, regional, state and national associations of a civic,
educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the betterment
and improvement of county government operations.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners is authorized to budget, and the
County Council is authorized to appropriate, funds to pay the expenses of duly
authorized representatives to attend the meetings and functions of
organizations to which the county belongs.
(`83 Code, § 34.08) (Ord. 1982-15, passed 7-26-82)
§ 33.02 REPRODUCTION FEES.
   The following fees are adopted for copies of county records:
   (A)   Accident reports, $5 per copy.
   (B)   Film costs for abstract companies, $.50 per foot.
   (C)   Theft, robbery, vandalism and B-cards, $1 per sheet.
(`83 Code, § 34.18) (Ord. 1985-16, passed 9-3-85; Ord. 1985-17, passed 9-3-85;
Ord. 1985-20, passed 9-3-85)
§ 33.03 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FEE.
   (A)   The monthly enhanced emergency telephone system fee for each exchange
access facility, as defined by I.C. 36-8-16-3, used in the county shall be
$0.91 per month, commencing August 1, 2008, and continuing monthly thereafter
until further action by Council.
   (B)   All E911 fees collected pursuant to this section shall be used only to
pay for those purposes specified and authorized by I.C. 36-8-16-14(a).
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-16-12, each service supplier that collects an
E911 fee on behalf of the county is entitled to a 3% administrative fee as
compensation for collecting the fee. Each service supplier shall remit to the
County Treasurer the E911 fees it collects during a calendar quarter within ten
days after the end of the quarter; and at the same time the service supplier
shall provide a fee collection report to the County Auditor. Additionally,
pursuant to I.C. 36-8-16-11(b), during January of each year, each service
supplier shall provide the County Treasurer with a delinquent fee report and
the Treasurer may initiate legal action to collect any delinquent fees.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-16-13, the County Treasurer shall collect and
deposit all E911 fees into a separate fund known as the “Howard County
Emergency Telephone System Fund.” The County Treasurer may invest money held in
the fund and deposit any income earned back into the fund.
   (E)   Not later than January 31 of each year, the county fiscal body shall
submit to each municipality within Howard County that operates a PSAP a report
of all expenditures of E911 funds paid during the immediately preceding
calendar year.
   (F)   The Howard County Council hereby adopts and imposes a tax rate for a
PSAP in Howard County at a rate of 0.1% on the adjusted gross income of
resident county tax payers of Howard County; and to the extent authorized by
I.C. 6-3.5-6-28(c), on the adjusted gross income of all non-resident county tax
payers of Howard County.
(CC Ord. 1988-17, passed 8-2-88; Am. CC Ord. 1989-4, passed 2-21-89; Am. BCC
Ord. 1993-27, passed 8-2-93; Am. Res. 2007-BCC-20, passed 8-20-07; Am. Ord.
2008-CC-22, passed 7-24-08; Am. Ord. 2017-HCCO-37, passed 9-18-17)
§ 33.04 PLAT BOOK FUND REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2- 9-18(d) the Board of Commissioners hereby
establishes a Plat Book Fund. the County Auditor is hereby required to collect
a fee for each real property endorsement made by the auditor in the amount of
$10 for each:
      (1)   Deed, or
      (2)   Legal description of each parcel contained in the deed;
   For which the Auditor makes a real property endorsement, with respect to
which a tax identification number has been established.
   (B)   Such revenues collected are hereby dedicated to the fund for the use
of maintaining plat books, in traditional or electronic format.
(BCC Ord. 1991-7, passed 3-25-91; Am. BCC Ord. 2002-34, passed 8-19-02; Am.
Ord. BCC-2004-39, passed 11-1-04; Am. Ord. BCC-2006-14, passed 4-3-06; Am. Ord.
2019-BCCO-14, passed 6-17-19)
§ 33.05 TAX SALE LIST FEES.
   The Board of County Commissioners hereby establishes a charge for taxpayers
requesting copies of tax sale lists. For each tax sale list requested, a fee of
$5 shall be collected.
(BCC Ord. 1992-20, passed 6-1-92)
§ 33.06 SUPPLEMENTAL RECORDING FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7-10(b)(11), the County Recorder shall charge a
supplemental fee of $3 per document, which shall be paid at the time the
document is recorded.
   (B)   The supplemental recording fee of $3 is in addition to all other
recording fees required by law for services rendered by the County Recorder.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7-10(b)(11), the supplemental fee shall be
placed in the County Recorder’s Records Perpetuation Fund, along with the fees
collected pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7-10(b)(5), (b)(6) and (b)(9), to be used by
the County Recorder for the preservation of records and the improvement of
record-keeping systems and equipment upon appropriation by the County Council.
(BCC Ord. 1995-29, passed 8-14-95)
§ 33.07 SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT COPYING FEES.
   (A)   Copying/duplication fee schedule. There is hereby established the
following copying/duplication fee schedule for the Howard County Sheriffs
Office, except as excluded from these provisions by divisions (D) and (E)
below:
      (1)   Fees for paper copy. The copy fee for producing paper documents
shall be the actual cost to the Sheriff’s office of copying records or $0.10,
whichever is greater, for each page of any public record which is not a color
copy and $0.25 for each page of any public record which is a color copy. The
"actual cost" means the cost of paper and the per-page cost for use of copying
equipment and does not include labor or overheads costs. Any fee established
under this division must be uniform to all purchasers.
         (a)   Page definition. A page shall be one side of a sheet of paper or
one side of a record or document. Thus, a sheet with writing on two sides that
is copied (both sides) would be treated as two pages.
      (2)   Fees for copies of accident reports shall be $10 per report,
pursuant to the authority of I.C. 9-26-9-3.
         (a)   Fees for electronic or digital copy.
            1.   There will be no fee to provide an electronic copy of a public
record by electronic mail; provided, however, there is no requirement that a
public agency change the format of a public record.
            2.   Media charges. Electronic or digital copies shall be provided
via email; the person requesting the electronic or digital copy shall provide
an accurate email address for sending the requested documents. If the person
requesting electronic or digital copies requests that the copies be provided on
a compact disc (CD), DVD, thumb drive, or alternative media, the person making
the request shall pay to the Howard County Sheriff’s Office $15 per CD/DVD
required to fulfill the request or the actual cost of any alternative media
device at a minimum of $15.
      (3)   Packaging and shipping fees. Packaging and shipping fees shall be
charged at cost.
   (B)   Procedure for processing of copy requests. 
      (1)   All requests for copying of public records must identify with
reasonable particularity the record being requested and, at the discretion of
the Howard County Sheriff’s Office, be in writing or in a standard form
provided by Howard County on the county website or otherwise. No request for
inspection or copying of public records may be denied because the person making
the request refuses to state the purpose of the request, unless such condition
is required by operation of law. For a public record that is in an electronic
format, a public agency shall provide an electronic copy or a paper copy of the
public record, at the option of the person making the request for the public
record.
      (2)   The Howard County Sheriff's Office shall be expected to provide
copies of public records, as herein requested, within a reasonable time period
after the request is properly made. A reasonable time period may vary depending
upon the scope of the request, the time involved in honoring it, the ability of
the Department to respond to the request given its other duties and
responsibilities, and the availability of copying or duplicating equipment (if
any).
   (C)   Absence of machine capable of mechanically duplicating the public
record. The Howard County Sheriff's office shall not be required to copy or
duplicate a public record requested to be copied or reproduced which is within
its possession unless it has reasonable access to a machine capable of
mechanically reproducing the public record. In the absence of reasonable access
to such a machine, the requesting person is only entitled to inspect and
manually transcribe the record.
   (D)   Certification fees. The fee for certifying any document as a true,
accurate, and complete copy of the original public record shall be $5 for each
document.
   (E)   Statutory or other prescribed fees. Nothing contained within this
section shall alter, expand, or interfere with the collection of any copying,
search, or other fee by the Howard County Sheriff’s office that is specified by
other law or is ordered by a court to be paid.
   (F)   Duplication of computer tapes, computer discs, microfilm, etc. 
      (1)   The Howard County Sheriff’s Office shall be entitled to establish
its own procedures and standards for providing a duplicate of any computer
tape, computer disc, DVD, microfilm, law enforcement recording or similar or
analogous record system containing information owned by the public agency or
entrusted to it. The Howard County Sheriff’s Office, as part of its standard
policy relative to such materials, shall charge a fee therefore, which fee
shall not exceed the Department's direct cost of supplying the information in
that form. The fee for a law enforcement recording may not exceed $150. In
determining the Department's direct cost of supplying such information, the
Department shall compute 105% of the sum of the cost of:
         (a)   The initial development of a program, if any;
         (b)   The labor required to retrieve electronically stored data; and
         (c)   Any medium used for electronic output; for providing a
duplicate, or for reprogramming the computer system under I.C. 5-14-6 to
separate disclosable information from non-disclosable information.
      (2)   As to such computer tapes, computer discs, microfilm, or similar or
other analogous record systems containing information owned by the Department,
the Department shall be entitled to establish its own uniform,
nondiscriminatory procedure for the requesting of a duplicate or copy, and the
timeliness of any response thereto.
   (G)   Payment and accounting for fees.
      (1)   The Howard County Sheriff’s Office shall require the payment of any
fees under this section to be made in advance to insure payment and
reimbursement to the Department for the expense involved in providing the
requested service.
      (2)   The Howard County Sheriff’s Office shall not impose the fees
established under this section when the services performed are for other public
agencies forming a part of Howard County Government.
(BCC Ord. 1995-6, passed 2-6-95; Am. Ord. BCC-2005-21, passed 5-16-05; Am. Ord.
2021-HCCO-55, passed 12-21-21)
§ 33.08 COUNTY PROSECUTOR’S COPYING FEES.
   (A)   The County Prosecutor may establish and charge a fee of $0.50 per page
to make copies of papers and documents to be provided to an individual and
other agencies pursuant to the Indiana Access to Records Act, being I.C. 5-14-
3-1 et seq.
   (B)   The copying fee shall become the property of the General Fund, and
will be submitted to and received by the County Auditor for deposit on a yearly
basis into the General Fund.
   (C)   Funds so received by the county into the General Fund may be expended
by the County Prosecutor by appropriation by the County Council for the General
Fund into a line in the County Prosecutor’s budget. Such appropriations may be
made by regular budget appropriation or special appropriation, and the filing
of claims after appropriation by the County Prosecutor.
(BCC Ord. 1996-67, passed 12-16-96)
§ 33.09 COUNTY PROSECUTOR’S BAD CHECK SERVICE CHARGE COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   The County Prosecutor may establish an account into which the County
Prosecutor may deposit service charge fees that are collected and permitted
under state law for the collection of bad checks.
   (B)   The service charge fees shall become the property of the General Fund
and will be submitted to the County Auditor for deposit on a yearly basis into
the General Fund.
   (C)   Funds so received by the county into the General Fund may be expended
by the County Prosecutor by appropriation by the County Council for the General
Fund into a line in the County Prosecutor’s budget. Such appropriations may be
made by regular budget appropriation or special appropriation, and the filing
of claims after appropriation by the County Prosecutor.
(BCC Ord. 1995-8, passed 2-13-95; Am. BCC Ord. 1996-68, passed 12-16-96)
§ 33.10 FEES FOR PROVIDING ELECTRONIC DATA.
   (A)   The county hereby establishes and imposes the fees to be charged for
the furnishing of electronic data as set forth in this division (E) of this
section. Division (E) of this section may be amended from time to time to add
additional fees or to modify existing fees. Provided, however, that all fees
listed in division (E) shall at all times be calculated and established in
compliance with the requirements and limitations set forth in I.C. 5-4-3-8(g).
   (B)   All fees collected under this section shall revert to the County
General Fund.
   (C)   Howard County hereby adopts the uniform Request for Electronic Data
form in division (F) of this section. All requests for electronic data must be
made in writing on this form, and no electronic data shall be furnished without
this form first being completed and filed. All county officeholders, department
heads, and employees shall follow the procedures set forth in I.C. 5-14-3-9 and
other related public access laws in processing Request for Electronic Data
properly filed.
   (D)   This section shall not affect or replace, but shall be in addition to,
the following existing Ordinances with respect to the furnishing of certain
electronic data:
      (1)   Section 36.08, Fees for Copies of Documents and Copies of
Electronics Formatted Data.
      (2)   Section 36.09, Fees for Auditor’s Mapping.
   (E)   Schedule A.
Electronic Data Provided Fee
Electronic Data Provided                Fee
1. Standard CD or DVD, updated annually
to a specific date after taxes are       
calculated, containing the following
fields of information:
Owner name                               
Taxpayer name                            
Location address                         
Mailing address                          
Brief legal description                  
Parcel identification number             
Gross assessed value                     
Net assessed value                       
Exemptions                               
Spring/Fall tax installments             
Total taxes, including delinquencies     
Special assessments                     $250.00 base fee
                                        
2. CD or DVD containing any or all of   $250.00 base fee, plus $25.00 per hour
the fields from the Standard CD or DVD, to extract data
current to date of request
3. Applicable exemptions: All media and all local, state and federal
governmental entities shall be exempt from the $250.00 base fee, but shall be
subject to the $25.00 hourly rate if special fields are requested pursuant to
Paragraph 2 of this Schedule A.
4. Howard County Assessor is authorized to determine on a case by case basis
whether a request for aerial photographic images may be provided to individual
members of the public or other entities, and, if so, the appropriate charge
for same.
 
   (F)   Schedule B.
   Request for Electronic Data
To:   Howard County Government
   Attn. Terry Tribby
   This is to request the following electronic data from Howard County
(identify data requested with reasonable particularity):
   I (we) understand that Indiana Code 5- 14-3-3(e) and Howard County Ordinance
BCC-2005-32 prohibit a person who receives information on a disc or tape from
using such information for commercial purposes, including to sell, advertise,
or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods, or services or sell, loan, give
away, or otherwise deliver the information obtained to any other person. I (we)
hereby certify to Howard County Government that I (we) will not use the
information requested above for such commercial purposes. I (we) agree to pay
the required fee for such information before the information is furnished.
      Dated, this         day of                 , 20   .
                              Name:
                                                            
                              Address:
                                                         
                              Phone:
                                                            
                              Signature:
                                                        
                                                   Requesting Party
Note: You may return this Request by:
      (1)   Fax to: (765) 456-2803
         OR
      (2)   Mail to:
            Howard County Government
            Howard County Administration Center
            220 North Main Street
            Kokomo, IN 46901
            Attn: Terry Tribby
(Ord. BCC-2005-32, passed 9-19-05; Am. Ord. 2020 BCCO-8, passed 2-25-20; Am.
Ord. 2020 HCCO-11, passed 2-25-20)
§ 33.11 SEX OR VIOLENT OFFENDER REGISTRATION AND CHANGE OF ADDRESS FEES.
   (A)   Fund established. The Howard County Sex or Violent Offender
Administration Fund (“Fund”) is hereby established. The purpose of the Fund is
to defray the expenses incurred by the Howard County Sheriff in administering,
and ensuring compliance with, the laws concerning the Indiana sex and violent
offender registry. Accordingly, the Howard County Council shall periodically
appropriate money from the Fund for the Howard County Sheriff to use for this
purpose as he or she deems appropriate and according to law.
   (B)   Imposition of fees. The Howard County Sheriff is required to collect
the following fees hereby imposed:
      (1)   An annual registration fee of $50, payable upon the sex or violent
offender’s initial registration with the Howard County Sheriff and upon each
subsequent annual registration; and
      (2)   An address change fee of $5 each time a sex or violent offender
registers an address change with the Howard County Sheriff.
   (C)   Disposition of fees. The Howard County Sheriff shall promptly transfer
all fees collected pursuant to this section to the Howard County Auditor, who
shall monthly:
      (1)   Deposit 90% of all fees collected to the Fund for appropriation and
use in accordance with division (A) above; and
      (2)   Transfer 10% of all fees collected to the Treasurer of the State of
Indiana for deposit in the state sex and violent offender administration fund
under I.C. 11-8-8-21.
(Ord. 2013-BCCO-3, passed 2-4-13)
§ 33.12 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The county hereby adopts the standards and procedures developed by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e), titled as the Uniform
Internal Control Standards for Political Subdivisions (“Uniform Standards”).
   (B)   Each officer or employee of the county whose official duties include
receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to
funds that belong to the federal government, state government, a political
subdivision, or another governmental entity must undergo training in the
uniform standards.
(Ord. 2016 BCCO-28, passed --)
§ 33.13 COUNTY CORONER COPYING FEES.
   (A)   The County Coroner may impose a fee for copying documents.
   (B)   The fee for copying documents may not exceed the greater of:
      (1)   Ten cents ($.10) per page for copies that are not color copies or
$.25 per page for color copies; and $3 each for copies of photographs.
      (2)   The actual cost to the Coroner’s office for copying the document,
which cost is not to include labor or overhead costs.
   (C)   A page shall be one side of a sheet of paper or one side of a record
or document.
   (D)   The fee for certification of any document or record as a true,
accurate, and complete copy of the original public record shall be $5 for each
document.
   (E)   The payment of any fees may, at the Coroner’s discretion, be required
to be paid in advance to insure the payment and reimbursement for the expense
involved.
   (F)   All proceeds from fees arising from this section shall be deposited in
the Coroner’s budget income line item fund.
(Ord. 2021-HCCO-31, passed 7-27-21)
FUNDS
§ 33.25 COUNTY CORRECTIONS FUND.
   (A)   The County Council hereby elects to receive deposits from the
Department of Corrections in accordance with I.C. 11-12-6-1 et seq.
   (B)   The County Council hereby elects to receive such deposits at Level III
funding.
    (C)   There is hereby created a “County Corrections Fund” for 1999, to be
administered by the County Sheriff. the fund shall consist of deposits received
from the Department of Corrections in accordance with I.C. 11-12-6-1 et seq.
   (D)   The County Corrections Fund may be used only for funding the operation
of the county jail, jail programs or other local correctional facilities. Any
money remaining in the County Corrections Fund at the end of the year does not
revert to any other fund, but the money shall remain in the County Corrections
Fund.
(CC Ord. 1990-2, passed 2-12-90; Am. CC Ord. 1991-3, passed 2-26-91; Am. CC
Ord. 1992-9, passed 3-24-92; Am. CC Ord. 1994-18, passed 3-22-94; Am. CC Ord.
1995-4, passed 1-24-95; Am. BCC Ord. 1996-8, passed 2-5-96; Am. CC Ord. 1996-
11, passed 2-6-96; Am. CC Ord. 1997-07, passed - -97; Am. Ord. 1998-02, passed
1-20-98; Am. Ord. BCC 1999-07, passed 2-15-99; Am. Ord. BCC 2000-12, passed 3-
6-00)
§ 33.26 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Cumulative Capital Development Fund,
which fund may be used for any or all of the following purposes:
      (1)   To purchase, construct, equip or maintain buildings for public
purposes;
      (2)   To acquire the land and any improvements on it that are necessary
for the construction of public buildings; and
      (3)   To demolish any improvements on land acquired for a public building
and to level, grade and prepare the land for the construction of the public
building.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:
      EQUIP. Includes any capital expenditure relating to the furnishing or
operation of public buildings including, by way of illustration and not by way
or limitation, purchases of office equipment, office furnishings, computers and
voting machines.
      MAINTAIN. Includes repairing, remodeling or enlargement.
(BCC Ord. 1989-7, passed 3-28-89; Am. BCC Ord. 1994-24, passed 4-25-94; Am. CC
Ord. 1994-25, passed 4-26-94; Am. BCC Ord. 1997-41, passed 9-15-97; Am. CC Ord.
1997-51, passed 11-25-97; Am. Ord. 2020-BCCO-12, passed 3-2-20)
§ 33.27 CUMULATIVE BRIDGE FUND.
   (A)   A need now exists for the establishment of a Cumulative Bridge Fund to
provide funds for the cost of construction, maintenance and repair of bridges,
approaches and grade separations as defined in I.C. 8-16-3-1.5 and to make
county-wide bridge inspections and safety ratings as stated in I.C. 8-16-3-1.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners will adhere to the provisions of
I.C. 8-16-3. The total tax levied on all taxable real and personal property in
the county for the fund, including the tax increase, shall not exceed $0.0233
per $100 of assessed valuation. Said increased tax rate shall be levied
beginning with taxes payable beginning in the year 2008.
(BCC Ord. 1995-19, passed 6-5-95; Am. Ord. BCC-2006-28, passed 7-17-06; Am.
Ord. BCC-2007-29, passed 6-16-07)
§ 33.28 LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Law Enforcement Fund. The fund shall
consist of deposits in the form of voluntary surrender fees, reimbursement for
restitution, seizure of assets and other law enforcement related fees recovered
by the office of the County Prosecutor which are not required to be deposited
in the General Fund.
   (B)   The Law Enforcement Fund shall be appropriated from funding activities
recovered by I.C. 34-4-30.1 and 34-4-30.5 and liquidation of personal or real
property obtained from criminal defendants.
   (C)   Monies from this fund shall be subject to appropriation in accordance
with I.C. 36-2-5-2.
   (D)   All money collected under this section shall be transferred to the
County Treasurer, who shall deposit such funds and disburse as the County
Prosecutor directs. Any money remaining in the fund at the end of the year does
not revert to any other fund, but continues in the Law Enforcement Fund.
(CC Ord. 1990-4, passed 2-13-90)
§ 33.29 WORK PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Howard County Sheriff’s Work Program
Fund.
   (B)   All sums collected by the County Sheriff under §
32.03(B)(5) shall be deposited initially in the Work Program Fund and disbursed
without appropriation in the following order:
      (1)   First, to the payment of the prisoners as provided in §
32.03(B)(3) at least monthly. A sufficient balance shall be maintained in the
Work Program Fund at all times to cover all accrued obligations to prisoners;
      (2)   Second, the balance remaining after satisfaction of division (B)(1)
of this section to the County Auditor for deposit in a special fund from which
the County Auditor shall pay, upon proper request by the County Sheriff,
expenses of the Work Program, including but not limited to the salaries of
supervising deputies for the periods during which supervision is actually
performed; and
      (3)   Third, any balance remaining after satisfaction of divisions (B)(1)
and (B)(2) of this section shall be transferred by the County Auditor annually
to the County General Fund.
(BCC Ord. 1997-44, passed 10-6-97)
§ 33.30 PUBLIC DEFENDER SUPPLEMENTAL FUND.
   (A)   Funds collected by the County Auditor in the fund known as the Howard
County Public Defender Supplemental Fund shall be used to supplement the
existing budget of the County Public Defender for the year 2010 for purposes
and expenses to provide better quality services and more services available to
those persons who have been appointed legal counsel in the county. These
expenditures may be for items designated at the discretion of the County Public
Defender such as equipment, special court reporter expenses, travel expenses,
witness fees, expert witness fees, expert witness analysis, continuing legal
education, both in Indiana and outside of Indiana, subscriptions, office
expenses and for any other purposes deemed appropriate by the County Public
Defender consistent with I.C. 33-9-11.5.
   (B)   Expenditures from the Fund shall be made by the County Auditor and
County Treasurer upon submission to the County Auditor of a claim form
indicating the service, equipment, supply, or other item of expenditure, which
will be paid by the County Treasurer upon receipt of the claim without the need
for ordinary advertising as other claims submitted for payment from the General
Fund.
(CC Ord. 2002-04, passed 1-23-02; Am. Ord. CC-2010-5, passed 1-26-10)
§ 33.31 SHERIFF’S SCHOOL/TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   The Howard County Sheriff’s School/ Training Fund is hereby
established.
   (B)   The Fund shall be administered by the County Sheriff. The Sheriff
shall deposit into the Fund all fees collected from training schools conducted
by the County Sheriff’s Department and any donations of money given to the
Fund. The Sheriff shall disburse from the Fund, without appropriation, such
sums as the Sheriff deems appropriate for the support and operation of the
Special Teams of the County Sheriff’s Department including, but limited to,
S.W.A.T., DIVE and CERT.
   (C)   The Sheriff shall make a written report to the County Board of
Commissioners, on a calendar quarterly basis, of the receipts and disbursements
from the Fund.
(Ord. BCC-2003-33, passed 8-4-03)
Cross-reference:
   Sheriff’s Reserve Deputy Fund, see §
32.04
§ 33.32 IDENTIFICATION SECURITY PROTECTION FUND.
   (A)   The County Identification Security Protection Fund (“Fund”) is hereby
established pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7.5-6(b)(2), effective as of January 1, 2006.
   (B)   The Fund shall consist of money deposited into the fund under I.C. 36-
2-7.5-6(b)(2), and shall be administered by the County Recorder.
   (C)   The County Recorder, upon appropriation by the County Council, may use
money in the Fund only to purchase, upgrade, implement, or maintain redacting
technology used in the office of the County Recorder.
   (D)   Money in the Fund does not revert to the General Fund.
(Ord. BCC-2005-68, passed 12-5-05)
§ 33.33 SHERIFF DEPUTY BENEVOLENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Howard County Sheriff Deputy
Benevolent Fund (“Fund”).
   (B)   The Fund shall be maintained and operated in accordance with the
guidelines attached to CC Ord. 2007-51 and incorporated herein as Exhibit A, as
from time to time amended; provided, that any such amendment of the guidelines
shall not become effective until approved by resolution of this Council.
   (C)   The Sheriff’s Department shall establish and maintain the Fund bank
account(s) for the purposes authorized herein. The Fund Committee shall
control, deposit to and disburse from the Fund account(s). The Fund and Fund
account(s) shall be subject to annual audit by the Indiana State Board of
Accounts.
   (D)   Disbursements from the Fund may be made without appropriation by the
County Council; however, the Fund Committee shall report Fund income and
disbursements to the County Council no less frequently than annually.
(Ord. CC-2007-51, passed 12-11-07)
§ 33.34 SUPPLEMENTAL PUBLIC DEFENDER SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   The funds collected by the Auditor of Howard County in the fund known
as the Howard County Public Defender Supplemental Fund shall be used to
supplement the existing budget of the Howard County Public Defender for the
year 2016 for purposes and expenses to provide better quality services
available to those persons who have been appointed legal counsel in Howard
County. These expenditures may be for items designated at the discretion of the
Howard County Public Defender including, but not limited to, equipment, special
court reporter expenses, travel expenses, witness fees, expert witness fees,
expert witness analysis, investigation, seminar expenses, continuing legal
education, both in Indiana and outside of Indiana, subscriptions, office
expenses, computers, copiers, fax machines, I-Pads, cell phones, and for any
purposes deemed appropriate by the Howard County Public Defender consistent
with I.C. 33-0-11.5.
   (B)   The expenditures from the Fund shall be made by the Howard County
Auditor and Treasurer of Howard County upon submission to the Auditor of a
claim form indicating the service, equipment, supply, or other item of
expenditure, which will be paid by the Treasurer of Howard County upon receipt
of the claim without the need for ordinary advertising as other claims
submitted for payment from the General Fund.
(Ord. 2011-HCCO-5, passed 2-22-11; Am. Ord. 16-HCCO-05, passed --)
§ 33.35 REVOLVING LOAN FUND.
   Pursuant to I.C. 5-1-14-14(b), the Auditor of Howard County is hereby
authorized and directed to establish a Revolving Loan Fund for the purpose of
loaning money to local government entities for economic development purposes.
The name of the fund shall be “The Howard County Revolving Loan Fund,”
hereinafter referred to as the “RLF.”
(Ord. 2013-HCCO-08, passed 4-23-13)
§ 33.36 RECORDER’S ENHANCED ACCESS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Recorder’s Enhanced Access Fund No. 1154
(“Fund”), which shall consist of the access fees collected by the Howard County
Recorder under I.C. 5-14-3-8(h). The Recorder shall pay from the Fund the
vendors’ portion of the access fees as an operating expense authorized by I.C.
5-14-3-8.3.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(h), the Fund is a dedicated fund with the
following purposes:
      (1)   The replacement, improvement, and expansion of capital
expenditures; and
      (2)   The reimbursement of operating expenses incurred in providing
enhanced access to public information.
   (C)   Consistent with these stated purposes, the Recorder in his or her
discretion and upon appropriated by the Council, is hereby authorized to use
and expend the Fund:
      (1)   For the replacement, improvement, and expansion of equipment used
to maintain the Howard County Recorder’s Document Indexing System upon which
enhanced access depends; and/or
      (2)   For the reimbursement of operating expenses incurred in providing
enhanced access to public information by the Howard County Recorder’s Office.
   (D)   The Howard County Recorder shall administer the Fund in a manner
consistent with the terms of this section.
   (E)   The Council authorizes and confirms the Recorder’s authority to
collect the access fees pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(h).
(Ord. 2013-HCCO-16, passed 8-20-13)
§ 33.37 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DONATIONS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Emergency Management Donations Fund
(“Fund”), which shall consist of all monetary donations received by the
Department. The Director shall immediately deposit all donations in the Fund.
   (B)   Upon annual appropriation by the Howard County Council and periodic
approval by the Department’s Advisory Council, the Director may use the “Fund”
(as a supplement to the Department’s annual budget) for the purchase of items
directly related to the Department’s mission, such as (by way of example and
not limitation):
      (1)   Radio/portable/fire pager repair- batteries;
      (2)   Car washes;
      (3)   Medical supplies for ambulances;
      (4)   Vehicle accessories;
      (5)   Uniforms for volunteers;
      (6)   Badges;
      (7)   Office supplies for departments;
      (8)   Food for volunteers and members in the course of duty;
      (9)   Food for special dinners when specified by a donor;
      (10)   Water and soft drinks for members and volunteers;
      (11)   Pepper spray;
      (12)   EMT classes for volunteers;
      (13)   EVOC training;
      (14)   Fire equipment and gear;
      (15)   Plaques for volunteers; and
      (16)   IVFA membership dues.
   (C)   The Director, under the supervision of the Advisory Council, shall
administer the Fund in a manner consistent with the terms of this section.
(Ord. 2014 BCCO-14, passed 5-5-14)
§ 33.38 HEALTH DEPARTMENT DISCRETIONARY FUND.
   (A)   Fund establishment. There is hereby established a separate and
distinct fund to be named the Howard County Health Department Discretionary
Fund, herein referred to as the Fund.
   (B)   Fiscal administration. The Howard County Treasurer shall serve as the
custodian of the Fund and the County Auditor shall serve as the auditing agent
for and is hereby authorized to oversee the administration of the Fund.
   (C)   Receipts. Monies deposited to the Fund are limited to donations made
only for the use and benefit of the Howard County Health Department. No general
fund tax dollars or health fund monies will be utilized to supplement this
Fund.
   (D)   Expenditures. Monies in the Fund are not subject to appropriation
since all deposits are donations. The Fund has a narrow and limited purpose,
and expenditures will be subject to the approval of the Howard County Health
Officer. All expenditures are to be used for payment or reimbursement of
expenses of the Howard County Health Department, subject to approval of the
Howard County Health Officer.
   (E)   Non-Reverting Fund. Any and all monies in the Howard County Health
Department Discretionary Donation Fund at the end of the calendar year shall
not revert to another fund but shall remain in said Fund as a separate non-
reverting fund.
(Ord. 2018 BCCO-12, passed 4-16-18)
§ 33.39 KINSEY LEASE PAYMENT FUND.
   (A)   A special fund shall be created named the Kinsey Lease Payment Fund
and all lease payments received from Four County Counseling shall be deposited
into the special fund for funding of programs by Kinsey Youth Center.
   (B)   The Howard County Auditor is hereby authorized and directed to
implement this section in accordance with the applicable law and administrative
procedures.
(Ord. 2018 BCCO-28, passed 9-4-18)
§ 33.40 VETERANS’ COURT DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Veterans' Court Donation Fund, (the
Fund) which shall consist of all monetary donations received by the Veterans'
Problem-Solving Court Program.
   (B)   All such donations received shall be deposited upon receipt into the
fund by the Howard Superior Court II judge or other authorized representative.
   (C)   The judge overseeing the Veterans' Court Program is authorized to use
the fund for the purchase of items directly related to assisting the
participants in the program, including, but not limited to, graduation program
expenses, food for special dinner programs, travel, and other Veterans' Court
Program incentives.
   (D)   The judge overseeing the program, or other authorized representative,
shall sign all claims submitted for payment from the fund and shall otherwise
administer the fund in accordance with the terms of this section.
(Ord. 2019-BCCO-22, passed 8-5-19)
§ 33.41 DUKE ENERGY FOUNDATION GRANT FUND.
   (A)   A new fund, “Duke Energy Foundation Grant” fund is hereby created as
Fund No. 9141 for the receipt and deposit of grant funds awarded to EMA.
   (B)   Revenue for the new fund will come from one check from the Duke Energy
Foundation in the amount of $5,000.
   (C)   Expenditures will be used for the purchase of safety gear, including
AED.
   (D)   The life of the fund will be until the maximum of $5,000 has been
expended.
   (E)   The fund balance should be $0 upon termination of the fund.
(Ord. 2022-BCCO-30, passed 7-5-22)
§ 33.42 MEIJER OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUND.
   (A)   A new fund, “Meijer Opioid Settlement” fund is hereby created as Fund
No. 1239 for the receipt and deposit of settlement funds for the Meijer Opioid
Settlement.
   (B)   The revenue for this new fund will come as a single check for
$562,500.
   (C)   Expenditures for this fund will include specific disbursements to
specific entities to be determined by the Howard County Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   The life of the fund will be until the funds are fully disbursed and
depleted.
   (E)   The fund balance is perpetual until all cash has been spent.
   (F)   The fund cash balance will be $0.00 upon termination of the fund.
(Ord. 2023-BCCO-21, passed 6-19-23)
§ 33.42-1 OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   Two new funds, “Opioid Settlement Restricted Fund” and “Opioid
Settlement Unrestricted Fund” are hereby created as Fund No. 1237 and 1238,
respectively, for the receipt and deposit of the settlement funds awarded to
Howard County.
   (B)   The revenue for these new funds will come from opioid settlement
deposits from the Auditor of the State of Indiana.
   (C)   The planned expenditures for these funds include awarding the
following recipients with specified percentages of the funds for 2022 and 2023,
as established by Resolution 2022-BCCR-23:
      (1)   Turning Point- Systems of Care: 63%;
      (2)   Howard County Drug Free: 13%;
      (3)   Valley of Grace: 8%;
      (4)   Gilead House: 8%; and
      (5)   Family Service Association: 8%.
      (6)   The distributions are subject to review and/or renewal at the end
of the two- year period. Agreements will be established between Howard County
and the above recipients to ensure all funding is spent in accordance with the
Attorney General’s guidelines for use of opioid settlement funds.
   (D)   The life of the funds will be for ten years (2032) or until all
funding has been disbursed, whichever is sooner.
   (E)   The funds balance is reverting and will need to be budgeted each year
or as disbursements from the state are received.
   (F)   The funds cash balance should be $0.00 upon termination of the fund.
(Ord. 2022-BCCO-57, passed 12-19-22)
§ 33.43 MARTHA BURGE DRAIN RECONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   A new fund, “Martha Burge Drain Reconstruction” fund, is hereby
created as Fund No. 4941 for the receipt and deposit of funds for the Martha
Burge Drain Reconstruction project.
   (B)   The revenue for this new fund will come from collections from
settlement.
   (C)   Expenditures for this fund will be for semi-annual loan payments to
First Farmers Bank.
   (D)   The life of the fund will be until the maturity date of the loan in
June 2028.
   (E)   The fund balance is perpetual but will act as a clearing fund to pay
on the bank loans after each semi-annual settlement.
   (F)   The fund cash balance will be $0.00 upon termination of the fund.
(Ord. 2023-BCCO-22, passed 6-19-23)
§ 33.44 READI GRANT FUND.
   (A)   A new fund, “READI Grant” fund, is hereby created as Fund No. 9235 for
the receipt and deposit of funds for the reimbursement of expenditures made by
the county for the county-wide broadband project.
   (B)   The revenue for this new fund will come from a check from NCIRPC.
   (C)   The fund’s purpose is to continue to help pay for the county-wide
broadband project.
   (D)   The life of the fund will be until the maximum of $716,889 is
expended.
   (E)   The fund balance is perpetual until terminated by the terms of this
section.
   (F)   The fund cash balance should be $0.00 upon termination of the fund.
(Ord. 2023-BCCO-27, passed 8-7-23)
§ 33.44-1 ARP GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is created a new fund with the Auditor’s office that shall be
entitled “ARP Grant Fund,” and the Auditor shall issue a fund number with
respect to these funds and such funds shall be non-reverting.
   (B)   The purpose of the funds is to be used for only the following reasons
as set forth in § 603(c) of the ARP in accordance with US Treasury Guidance:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or to aid the
impacted industries such as tourism, travel and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of the
county that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that employ eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the county due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the
county prior to the emergency; or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer or broadband
infrastructure as approved by the U.S. Treasury.
   (C)   The funds shall be appropriated by the county’s fiscal body before
use.
   (D)   All expenditure of funds shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners with any and all claims to be paid from the county’s ARP fund.
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners will establish the plan, conditions and
rules upon which the funds are to be requested and used.
   (F)   Any unused funds shall be paid back to the United States Treasury when
required.
(Ord. 2021 BCCO-19, passed 5-3-21)
§ 33.44-2 CYBERSECURITY GRANT FUND.
   (A)   A new fund, “Fund 97.067 Cybersecurity Grant” is hereby created as
Fund No. 8180 for the receipt and deposit of grant funds awarded to EMA/
Information Systems.
   (B)   The new fund will have a negative unexpended balance until all
purchases are reimbursed by the Indiana Department of Homeland Security (IDHS).
Once all purchases are made and all proofs received, invoices will be sent to
the state to enable Howard County to be reimbursed for the same.
   (C)   Expenditures can be made from the new fund for third party
cybersecurity assessment, for VPN MFA, for vulnerability management software,
for firewall management software, and for central logging server software.
   (D)   The life of the fund will be until 8/31/2023 or until the maximum of
$50,000 has been expended, whichever comes first.
   (E)   The fund balance is perpetual until terminated by the terms of the
ordinance and the grant award letter from IDHS.
   (F)   The fund balance should be $0.00 upon termination of the fund, since
this is a reimbursement grant fund. Howard County will receive 100%
reimbursement for all purchases.
(Ord. 2021-BCCO-53, passed 12-20-21)
§ 33.44-3 KEATON ACRES DRAIN ESCROW FUND.
   (A)   A new fund, “Keaton Acres Drain Escrow Fund” is hereby created as Fund
No. 2905 for the receipt and deposit of landowners’ payments for the drain.
   (B)   Revenue for the new fund will come from landowners’ payments made
through the Surveyor’s office.
   (C)   Expenditures will be used for installing a private 8" lateral to
connect to the Keyton- Knight Regulated Drain.
   (D)   The life of the fund will be until the work is completed as determined
by the contractor’s schedule. Once this is determined, the Surveyor’s office
will provide the date to the Auditor’s office.
   (E)   The fund balance is perpetual until terminated by the terms of this
section.
   (F)   The fund balance will be $0.00 upon termination of the fund.
(Ord. 2022-BCCO-31, passed 7-5-22)
§ 33.44-4 HEALTH ISSUES AND CHALLENGES FUND.
   (A)   A new fund, “Health Issues and Challenges” fund is hereby created as
Fund No. 8920 for the receipt and deposit of grant funds awarded to the Howard
County Health Department.
   (B)   The revenue for this new fund will come from reimbursements from the
Indiana State Department of Health.
   (C)   Expenditures can be made from the new fund for professional services
and equipment.
   (D)   The life of the fund will be until the maximum of $71,772.01 is
expended or until the end of the grant cycle, 6/30/2024, whichever comes first.
   (E)   The fund balance is perpetual until terminated by the terms of this
section.
   (F)   The fund cash balance should be $0.00 upon termination of the fund,
since this is a reimbursement grant fund. Howard County will receive 100%
reimbursement for all expenses.
(Ord. 2022-BCCO-35, passed 8-1-22)
§ 33.44-5 TITLE IV-E REIMBURSEMENT FUND.
   (A)   A new fund, “Title IV-E Reimbursement” fund is hereby created as Fund
No. 8890 for the receipt and deposit of grant funds awarded to the Howard
County Public Defender.
   (B)   The revenue for this new fund will come from reimbursements from the
Indiana Public Defender Commission.
   (C)   Expenditures can be made from the new fund for the provision of
additional and enhanced services available to those persons who have been
appointed legal counsel in Howard County. Expenditures are for items designated
at the discretion of the Howard County Public Defender and may include, without
limitation, equipment, special court reporter expenses, attorney expenses,
travel expenses, witness fees, expert witness fees, expert witness analysis,
investigation, seminar expenses, continuing legal education (both inside and
outside Indiana), subscriptions, office expenses, computers, iPads, and any
other public defense expenses deemed appropriate by the Howard County Public
Defender.
   (D)   The life of the fund will be until the county no longer receives Title
IV-E reimbursements and the cash balance has been depleted.
   (E)   The fund balance is non-reverting at year end.
   (F)   The fund cash balance should be $0.00 upon termination of the fund,
since this is a reimbursement grant fund.
(Ord. 2022-BCCO-39, passed 9-19-22)
§ 33.44-6 IMPACT PANEL GRANT FUND.
   (A)   A new fund, “Impact Panel Grant” fund is hereby created as Fund No.
9143 for the receipt and deposit of grant funds awarded to the Howard County
Community Supervision Department.
   (B)   The revenue for this new fund will come from the Drug Free Howard
County Council on Substance Abuse Prevention/Governor’s Commission for a Drug
Free Indiana Local Coordinating Council in the amount of $2,025.
   (C)   Expenditures can be made from the new fund for rental of a facility
for use in carrying out the program purposes.
   (D)   The fund balance is perpetual until terminated by the terms of this
section.
   (E)   The fund cash balance should be $0.00 upon termination of the fund.
(Ord. 2022-BCCO-46, passed 11-7-22)
§ 33.44-7 L. MENDENHALL FAST TRACK RECONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   A new fund, “L. Mendenhall Fast Track Reconstruction Fund” is hereby
created as Fund No. 2910 for the receipt and deposit of funds from two
landowners paying to replace a section of the existing regulated drain with new
18" pipe.
   (B)   The revenue for this new fund will come from the two affected
landowners.
   (C)   Expenditures will be made for the replacement of the existing drainage
tile.
   (D)   The life of the fund will be until the work is completed as determined
by the contractor’s schedule. Once the date is known, it will be provided by
the Surveyor’s office to the Auditor’s office.
   (E)   The fund balance is perpetual until terminated by the terms of this
section.
   (F)   The fund cash balance will be $0.00 upon termination of the fund.
(Ord. 2022-BCCO-52, passed 12-5-22)
TAXATION
§ 33.45 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX IMPOSED; CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
ADOPTED.
   (A)   The County Income Tax Council imposes the County Economic Development
Income Tax (EDIT) on the county taxpayers. Such tax is imposed at a rate of
0.2% on the county taxpayers. This tax takes effect on July 1, 1996.
(CC Ord. 1996-1, passed 2-6-96)
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners, as the executive of the county, hereby
adopts a capital improvement plan for the county, to provide for the
expenditure of at least 75% of the fractional amount certified distribution
expected to be received by the county from EDIT revenues for the year 2010 and
2011.
(BCC Res. 1996-28, passed 7-15-96; Am. BCC Res. 1996-36, passed 9-9-96; Am. BCC
Res. 1999-16, passed 4-26-99; Am. Res. BCC-2008-01, passed 1-7-08; Am. Res.
2010-BCCR-23, passed 11-15-10; Am. Res. 2011-BCCR-2, passed 1-4-11; Am. Res.
2011-BCCR-07, passed 3-21-11; Am. Res. 2011-BCCR-13, passed 6-6-11; Am. Res.
2011-BCCR-27, passed 9-6-11)
§ 33.46 VEHICLE TAXES: EXCISE SURTAX AND WHEEL TAX.
   (A)   Excise surtax. Beginning January 1, 1984, and until further amended by
ordinance, all passenger vehicles, motorcycles and trucks with a declared gross
weight that does not exceed 11,000 pounds, registered in the county, that are
now subject to an excise tax (in lieu of a property tax) shall also be subject
to an annual excise surtax of 10%. The surtax on a vehicle shall not be less
than $7.50, to be paid with the registration of the motor vehicle.
(`83 Code, § 70.20)
   (B)   Wheel tax.
      (1)   Beginning January 1, 1984, and until further amended by ordinance,
all of the following six classes of vehicles and vehicles within those classes
based on weight classification of those vehicles that are established by the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles for use throughout the state, registered in this
county, shall be subject to an annual wheel tax as set out in the following
schedule, to be paid with the registration of those vehicles:
Vehicle Classification Annual Wheel Tax
Vehicle Classification                                          Annual Wheel
                                                                Tax
Buses                                                           $15
Recretional Vehicles                                            20
Semitrailers                                                    15
Tractors                                                        $20
Trailers
    Gross weight of less than 3,000 pounds                   5
    Gross weight of 3,000 pounds or more and less than 5,000 5
pounds
    Gross weight of 5,000 pounds or more and less than 7,000 5
pounds
    Gross weight of 7,000 pounds or more and less than 9,000 5
pounds
   G ross weight of 9,000 pounds or more                     5
Trucks                                                       15
 
 
      (2)   As provided by I.C. 6-3.5-5-4, the following motor vehicles are
exempt from the annual wheel tax: vehicles owned by the state, a state agency
or a political subdivision; buses owned and operated by a religious or non-
profit youth organization and used to haul persons to religious services or for
the benefit of their members; and vehicles subject to the annual excise surtax.
(`83 Code, § 70.21)
   (C)   Use of funds. Beginning January 1, 1984, all of the excise surtax and
wheel tax collected on motor vehicles registered in this county shall be
distributed, as provided for in I.C. 6-3.5-4-13 and 6-3.5-5-15, to the county,
city and town units of this county and shall be used only to construct,
reconstruct, repair or maintain streets and roads under their jurisdiction.
(`83 Code, § 70.22) (Ord. 1983-17, passed - -83)
§ 33.47 INNKEEPER’S TAX.
   (A)   Commencing January 1, 2014, a tax is hereby levied on every person
engaged in the business of renting or furnishing, for periods of less than 30
days, any room or rooms, lodgings or accommodations in any hotel, motel, boat
motel, inn, college or university memorial union, college or university hall or
dormitory, or tourist cabin that is located in the county. The tax shall be
imposed at a rate of 8% commencing July 1, 2019.
   (B)   The County Treasurer shall continue to maintain a Convention and
Visitor Fund as provided by I.C. 6-9-18-4. The innkeeper’s tax shall be
reported on forms as issued and approved by the County Treasurer and shall
provide that the tax shall be paid monthly to the County Treasurer. Pursuant to
I.C. 6-9-18-3, the innkeeper’s tax is to be paid to the County Treasurer not
more than 20 days after the end of the month the tax is collected. The County
Council acknowledges and confirms that all the provisions of I.C. 6-2.5
relating to the rights, duties, liabilities, procedures, penalties,
definitions, exemptions and administration are applicable to the imposition and
administration of the tax imposed.
(`83 Code, § 32.06(E), (F)) (Ord. 2013-HCCO-27, passed 10-22-13; Am. Ord. 2019
HCCO-07, passed 6-25-19)
Statutory reference:
   Tax authorized by state law, see I.C. 6-9-15-6
§ 33.48 MOBILE HOME AND PROPERTY TAXES; SINGLE PAYMENT IF $25 OR LESS.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 1987, an owner of a mobile home is hereby
required to pay his or her property tax liability for his or her mobile home in
one installment if the tax liability for a particular year is less than $25.
   (B)   Whenever a tax statement shows that an owner’s property tax liability
for a particular year for a mobile home is less than $25, the owner shall pay
the entire tax liability for the mobile home for that year on May 10 of that
year.
   (C)   Effective January 1, 1987, a person is hereby required to pay his or
her property tax liability in one installment if the tax liability for a
particular year is less than $25.
   (D)   Whenever a tax statement shows that the person’s property tax
liability for a year is less than $25 for the property covered by that
statement, the tax liability for that year is due in one installment on May 10
of that year.
(CC Ord. 1986-18, passed 12-2-86)
§ 33.49 FUND FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTY JAIL AND JUVENILE
DETENTION CENTER.
   (A)   Funding. The County Council hereby finds and determines that revenues
from the county option income tax authorized by I.C. 6-3.5-6-28 are needed in
the county to fund the operation and maintenance of both the county jail and
juvenile detention center.
   (B)   Agreement. The Council hereby covenants and agrees to freeze the part
of any property tax levy imposed in the county for the operation of both the
jail and juvenile detention center at the rate imposed in the year preceding
the year in which a full year of additional county option income tax is
certified for distribution to the county, for the term in which this section is
in effect.
   (C)   Adoption of tax. Based upon the foregoing determination, the Howard
County Council hereby adopts and imposes a county option income tax at a rate
of 0.25% on the adjusted gross income of resident county taxpayers; and one-
fourth of 0.25% on the adjusted gross income of the nonresident county
taxpayers of the county.
   (D)   Jail Revenue Fund. The County Treasurer shall establish a County Jail
Revenue Fund. County option income tax revenues derived from the tax rates
imposed under this section shall be deposited in the County Jail Revenue Fund
before making a certified distribution. This fund shall also include the frozen
property tax levy determined under division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Uses restricted. County option income tax revenues derived from the
tax rates imposed under this section:
      (1)   May be used only for the purposes described by statute; and
      (2)   May not be considered by the Department of Local Government Finance
in determining the county’s maximum permissible property tax levy limit under
I.C. 6-1.1-18.5.
   (F)   Application. This section shall apply to the imposition of the Jail
COIT after September 30, 2015.
(Ord. CC-2007-12, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. CC-2007-26, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord.
2015 HCCO-22, passed 7-28-15)
§ 33.50 APPLICATION OF PROPERTY TAX REFUNDS TO DELINQUENT PROPERTY TAXES.
   (A)   The County Auditor and Treasurer are hereby authorized and directed to
apply the amount of all refunds first against any delinquent property taxes
owed in the county by the taxpayer.
   (B)   If so authorized and/or advised, either orally or in writing, by the
Indiana Department of Local Government Finance, the Indiana Department of State
Revenue or the Indiana Property Tax Replacement Fund Board, the Auditor and
Treasurer may interpret “delinquent property taxes owed,” as that term is used
in the Act, as including penalties, special assessments and/or liens.
(Ord. BCC-2007-48, passed 12-17-07)
§ 33.51 AUTOMATIC MONTHLY DEDUCTIONS FOR PAYMENT OF PROPERTY TAXES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-22-9.7(e), Howard County hereby allows all
county taxpayers to pay one or more installments of property taxes by means of
an AMD.
   (B)   This section shall take effect immediately upon its adoption and
signature by the President; and shall apply to the Spring 2012 installment of
property taxes and each consecutive installment indefinitely, unless terminated
by action of the Council.
   (C)   As required by I.C. 6-1.1-22-9.7(f), the Treasurer shall give such
notice, and provided such forms, to taxpayers as are necessary to implement the
AMD option.
   (D)   The Howard County Board of Commissioners acting for an on behalf of
the Treasurer and Auditor, is hereby authorized to enter into any contracts
with financial institutions necessary to implement the AMD options, so long as
such contracts conform to the requirements of I.C. 6-1.1-22-9.7.
(Ord. 2010-HCCO-32, passed 11-23-10; Am. Ord. 2011-HCCO-29, passed 11-22-11)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Employee Handbook adopted
   
34.02   Additional employee contributions to state employees’ retirement fund
   
34.03   Policy prohibiting nepotism
   
34.04   Policy requiring disclosure of contracts with relatives
§ 34.01 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK ADOPTED.
   The current County Employee Handbook, as may be amended from time to time,
is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if set forth in
full herein.
(Am. 2004-BCC-18, passed 8-16-04; Am. Ord. BCC-2004-45, passed 12-6-04; Am.
Ord. BCC-2005-05, passed 1-18-05; Am. Res. 2005-BCC-06, passed 4-18-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-BCC-10, passed 2-21-05; Am. Ord. BCC-2005-19, passed 5-2-05; Am. Ord.
2006-BCC-12, passed 3-20-06; Am. Ord. 2006-BCC-48, passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord.
2007-BCC-31, passed 7-2-07; Am. Ord. 2008-BCC-20, passed 6-16-08; Am. Ord.
2009-BCC-11, passed 3-16-09; Am. Ord. 2009-BCC-16, passed 5-18-09; Am. Ord.
2010-BCC-29, passed 10-18- 10; Am. Ord. 2011-BCCO-17, passed 7-5-11; 2013-BCCO-
24, passed 10-7-13; 2013-BCCO-30, passed 11-18-13; 2014-BCCO-36, passed 12-1-
14; 2014-BCCO-42, passed 12-29-14; 2014-BCCO-8, passed 3-16-15; 2015-BCCO-24,
passed 8-17-15; 2015-BCCO-41, passed 11-15-15; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-08, passed 2-
15-16; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-20, passed 6-20-16; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-47, passed 12-
28-16; Am. Ord. 2017 BCCO-45, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2020-BCCO-57, passed 12-
21-20)
§ 34.02 ADDITIONAL EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS TO STATE EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   Effective as of September 1, 2003, the county desires to pick-up all
of the additional employee contributions made by employees through a binding
irrevocable payroll deduction authorization. No additional employee
contributions prior to August 26, 2003 shall be picked-up.
   (B)   Such additional employee contributions for state law purposes, are
being paid by the county in lieu of said contributions by the employee.
   (C)   The county shall comply with all of the terms and provisions of the
Pick-Up Regulation and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
(Ord. 2003-HCC-16, passed 8-26-03)
Statutory reference:
   For statute authorizing employer pick-up of additional employee retirement
contributions, see I.C. 5-10.2-3-2
§ 34.03 POLICY PROHIBITING NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and the enforcement of this section.
      (1)   EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the county on a full
time, part time, temporary, intermittent or hourly basis. The term does not
include an individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an
individual who is a party to an employment contract with the county. The
performance of the duties of a precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-
5-2-40.1) that are imposed by I.C. Chapter 3 is not considered employment by
the county.
      (2)   DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is
in a position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s
employment, including making decisions about work assignments, compensation,
grievances, advancement or performance evaluation. The term does not include
the responsibilities of the County Council or Board of County Commissioners to
make decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets or personnel policies of
the county.
      (3)   RELATIVE.
         (a)   Any of the following:
            1.   Spouse;
            2.   Parent or step parent;
            3.   A child or step child;
            4.   Brother, sister, step brother or step sister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (b)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual. The terms “brother” and “sister” shall include a brother or
sister by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Nepotism prohibited.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives shall not be employed by the county
in a position that results in one relative being in the direct line of
supervision of the other relative.
      (2)   An individual shall not be promoted to a position if the new
position would cause their relative to be in the direct line of supervision of
that individual.
   (C)   Exceptions to prohibition against nepotism.
      (1)   This section does not abrogate or affect an employment contract
with the county that an individual is a party to and is in effect on the date
the individual’s relative begins service of a term of an elected office of the
county.
      (2)   This section does not apply to individuals who are employed by the
county on the date the individual’s relative begins serving a term of an
elected office in the county and the individual is in the direct line of
supervision of the newly elected official.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a spouse of the County Sheriff
employed by the county as prison matron for the county under I.C. 36-8-10-5.
      (4)   This section does not apply to an individual who served as County
Coroner, is currently ineligible to serve due to term limits under Article 6
Section 2(b) of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, has received
certification under I.C. 36-2-14-22.3, and whose successor in the office of
County Coroner is a relative.
   (D)   Impact of section of those individuals employed by county on July
1,2012. An individual who is employed by the county on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this section unless the individual has a break in employment with
the county. The following are not considered a break in employment with the
county:
      (1)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick, or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation.
      (2)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated followed by
immediate reemployment by the unit, without loss of payroll time.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the county. Each elected officer
of the county shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this section. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the Board of County Commissioners not later
than December 31 of each year.
(Res. 2012-BCCR-17, passed 6-28-12)
§ 34.04 POLICY REQUIRING DISCLOSURE OF CONTRACTS WITH RELATIVES.
   (A)   Definitions.  The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and the enforcement of this section:
      (1)   ELECTED OFFICIAL. A County Commissioner or County Council member.
      (2)   RELATIVE.
         (a)   Any of the following:
            1.   Spouse;
            2.   Parent or step parent;
            3.   A child or step child;
            4.   Brother, sister, step brother or step sister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (b)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual. The terms “brother” and “sister” shall include a brother or
sister by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Application to certain contracts.
      (1)   The county may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with an
individual who is a relative of an elected official or a business entity that
is wholly or partially owned by a relative of an elected official only if
disclosure requirements under this section are satisfied,
      (2)   Contracts in existence at the time the term of office of the
elected official begins are not affected until those contracts are renewed.
   (C)   Disclosure of contracts with relatives.
      (1)   An elected official whose relative enters into a contract with the
county shall file a full disclosure of that contract.
      (2)   Disclosure statement must be in writing, describe the contract or
purchase to be made by the county, describe the relationship that the elected
official has to the individual or business entity that contracts or purchases,
and be affirmed under penalty of perjury.
      (3)   Disclosure statement must be submitted to the Board of County
Commissioners and be accepted by the Board in a public meeting prior to final
action on the contract or purchase.
      (4)   Disclosure statement must be filed not later than 15 days after
final action on the contract or purchase with the State Board of Accounts, and
the Howard County Clerk of the Circuit Court.
   (D)   Actions by Board of Commissioners or appropriate agency. The Board of
County Commissioners or an appropriate agency of the county designated by the
Board of County Commissioners shall make a certified statement that the
contract amount or purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered
or make a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or contractor was
selected.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the county. Each elected officer
of the county shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this section. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the Board of County Commissioners not later
than December 31 of each year.
(Res. 2012-BCCR-19, passed 6-28-12)
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Proclamation; curfew
   
35.03   Orders of the Sheriff
   
35.04   Time limit of curfew
   
35.05   Application of chapter
Cross-reference:
   Department of Emergency Management and Advisory Council, see §
31.10
    Police Force, see §
32.01
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY. A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence, or any threat to use force if accompanied by
immediate power to execute by three or more persons acting together without
power of law.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, sidewalk,
public property or vacant premises within the unincorporated limits of the
county, except officers or persons designated as not subject to such curfew.
(`83 Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 1969-7, passed 7-2-69)
§ 35.02 PROCLAMATION; CURFEW.
   (A)   When, in the judgment of the Sheriff, a civil emergency as defined in
§
35.01 is deemed to exist, he or she shall forthwith proclaim with the approval
of the Board of Commissioners, in writing, the existence of the civil
emergency.
   (B)   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Sheriff with the
approval of the Board of Commissioners, the Sheriff may order a general curfew
applicable to such unincorporated geographical areas of the county, or to the
county as a whole with the exception of the incorporated areas, as he or she
deems advisable and applicable during such hours of the day or night as he or
she deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
(`83 Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 1969-7, passed 7-2-69) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.03 ORDERS OF THE SHERIFF.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Sheriff with the approval of
the Board of Commissioners, the Sheriff may also, in the interest of public
safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Closing of all liquor stores.
   (B)   Closing of all beer taverns.
   (C)   Closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein the
consumption of intoxicating liquor or beer is permitted.
   (D)   Discontinuance of the sale of beer.
   (E)   Discontinuance of the sale, distribution or giving away of gasoline or
other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container other than a
gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   (F)   Closing of gasoline stations and other establishments, the chief
activity of which is to the sale, distribution or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products.
   (G)   Discontinuance of the sale, distribution and dispensing or giving away
of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
   (H)   Closing of any or all establishments or portions thereof, the chief
activity of which is the sale, distribution, dispensing or giving away of
firearms or ammunition.
   (I)   Issue such other orders as are eminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(`83 Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 1969-7, passed 7-2-69) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.04 TIME LIMIT OF CURFEW.
   The curfew authorized in this chapter or the orders authorized in §
35.03 shall remain in effect until rescinded by the Sheriff, but for a period
not to exceed 72 hours from the time they became effective unless approved by
the Board of Commissioners.
(`83 Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 1969-7, passed 7-2-69)
§ 35.05 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall not apply to any of the incorporated cities and towns of
the county.
(`83 Code, § 90.05) (Ord. 1969-7, passed 7-2-69)
CHAPTER 36: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   (Reserved)
   
36.02   Medical care co-payments by certain jail inmates
   
36.03   Use and access to the County Courthouse lawn
   
36.04   Business travel procedure
   
36.05   Prisoner reimbursement of incarceration costs
   
36.06   Purchasing practices
   
36.07   Commercial reproduction of electronic data restricted
   
36.08   Fees for copies of documents and copies of electronics formatted data
   
36.09   Fees for auditor’s mapping
   
36.10   Fees for photocopies and facsimile transmissions; bulk form copies
   
36.11   Veterans’ burial allowances
   
36.12   Rules for use of Government Center meeting rooms
   
36.13   Advance payment of claims and payment of membership dues and
subscriptions
   
36.14   County Courthouse security rules
   
36.15   Uniform categories for travel emergencies
   
36.16   Restricted addresses
   
36.17   Capital asset policy
   
36.18   Grant policy
   
36.19   Procurement policy
   
36.20   Grievance procedure under the ADA
   
36.21   Juror parking
   
36.22   Conflict of interest policy and procedures
   
36.23   Local preference purchasing policy
   
36.24   Information Resources Use Agreement (IRUA)
   
36.25   Security Awareness Training Policy
Cross-reference:
   Firearms prohibited in the County Courthouse, see §
130.02
    Personnel policies adopted, see §
34.01
§ 36.01 (RESERVED)
§ 36.02 MEDICAL CARE CO-PAYMENTS BY CERTAIN JAIL INMATES.
   (A)   As used in this section, the term JAIL INMATE shall include and apply
to all persons confined to the County Criminal Justice Center except that it
shall not include or apply to any person who:
      (1)   Maintains a policy of insurance from a private company covering
medical care, dental care, eye care or any other health care-related service,
including but not limited to prescription drugs and non-prescription
medications.
      (2)   Is willing to pay for the person’s own medical care; or
      (3)   Is committed to the Department of Correction.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C), every jail inmate shall be
required to make co- payments of up to $15 for each provision of any of the
following services provided by the county: medical care, dental care, eye care
or any other health care- related service, including but not limited to
prescription drugs and non-prescription medications.
      (2)   The County Sheriff shall prepare, maintain and post a listing of
the exact co-payment charges to be made under this division, which list may be
amended from time to time by the Sheriff.
   (C)   A jail inmate is not required to make the co- payment required under
division (B) if:
      (1)   The jail inmate does not have funds in his or her commissary
account or trust account at the time the service is provided;
      (2)   The jail inmate does not have funds in his or her commissary
account or trust account within 60 days after the service is provided;
      (3)   The service is provided in an emergency;
      (4)   The service is provided as a result of an injury received in the
County Criminal Justice Center; or
      (5)   The service is provided at the request of the County Sheriff or his
or her authorized staff.
(BCC Ord. 1995-13, passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. BCC-2003-16, passed 4-7-03)
§ 36.03 USE AND ACCESS TO THE COUNTY COURTHOUSE LAWN.
   (A)   Findings and determinations.
      (1)   A review of the board minutes and other investigations discloses
the to the best of the Board of County Commissioner’s knowledge that:
         (a)   With apparently but one exception, the Board of County
Commissioners has maintained strict control over access to the Courthouse lawn,
and such access has been limited in nature.
         (b)   In the limited instances there access has been permitted, it has
been granted by the Board of County Commissioners to civic, non-profit
organizations such as the United Way and Chamber of Commerce.
         (c)   For the past few years, a small gas torch has been erected on
the northeast corner of the Courthouse lawn and lit in observance of Domestic
Abuse Week. This torch burns for a few days annually and no signage or any sort
accompanies the torch. Apparently, the Board of County Commissioners has never
authorized this display by formal resolution.
         (d)   In December 1996, the Courthouse maintenance staff place
Christmas lights on the evergreen trees growing on the Courthouse Lawn.
         (e)   It does not appear that the Board of County Commissioners has
ever authorized, either formally or informally, any religious displays or
symbols to be placed on the Courthouse lawn.
         (f)   The Board of County Commissioners is currently considering
beautification of the Courthouse lawn and has caused the shrubs bordering the
lawn to be removed as a first step in such beautification project.
         (g)   It does not appear that the Board of County Commissioners has
ever acted by formal resolution to establish any written policy with regard to
use of or access to the Courthouse lawn.
         (h)   It does not appear that the Courthouse lawn has ever been an
open public forum, but rather any request for a display or other temporary use
of the Courthouse lawn has been considered by the Board of County Commissioners
on a limited request-by-request basis.
         (i)   The Board of County Commissioners does not believe that the
Courthouse Lawn has been either a traditional or designated public forum.
         (j)   It does not appear that the Board of County Commissioners has
ever declared the Courthouse lawn to be either a traditional public forum or a
designated (limited) public forum and no such declarations appear in any board
minutes.
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners has been advised by the County
Attorney that the United States Supreme Court case of Lamb’s Chapel v. Center
Moriches, 124 L.Ed.2d 352 (1993), and the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals
cases of Rabbi Grossbaum v. Indianapolis - Marion County Building Authority, 63
F.3d 581 (7th Cir. 1995) and 100 F.3d 1287 (7th Cir. 1996), have only recently
clarified the extent to which it is constitutionally permissible for a
government authority to restrict access to public property, and this Board of
County Commissioners seeks to clarify its position with respect to the use of
and access of the County Courthouse lawn consistent with the legal principles
set forth in these and other applicable court decisions.
   (B)   Declarations. Based upon the foregoing findings and determinations, be
it ordained by the Board of County Commissioners that:
      (1)   The Board of County Commissioners does not now declare the
Courthouse lawn to be a traditional public forum or to be a designated
(limited) public forum, but now hereby declares the County Courthouse lawn
(excluding the sidewalks and any benches which the county may erect and
maintain for public seating purposes only, contiguous to and as an extension of
the sidewalks) to be a non-public forum.
      (2)   As a non-public forum, the Board of County Commissioners hereby
declares that the Courthouse lawn (excluding the sidewalks and any benches
which the county may erect and maintain for public seating purposes only,
contiguous to and as an extension of the sidewalks) shall be used exclusively
by the government for governmental purposes, and no displays, signs or similar
structures shall be permitted or authorized to be erected by any non-
governmental private group upon the Courthouse lawn for any purpose.
(BCC Ord. 1997-8, passed 3-3-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.04 BUSINESS TRAVEL PROCEDURE.
   The county will reimburse employees and officials for reasonable business
travel expenses necessary to conduct county business based upon budgeted
allocation. All employees must receive advance travel authorization from their
elected official or department manager for any travel to be reimbursed.
   (A)   Mileage. 
      (1)   Employees utilizing their personal vehicle for County business
shall be reimbursed up to $.44 per mile. Mileage for out-of-town or out-of-
state travel and/or meetings/conferences will be paid from the place of work or
home to the destination, or in the case of air travel, the airport in which the
travel will be initiated, in all cases whichever is the lesser amount. Travel
from home to work and work to home is not considered reimbursable mileage. All
claims for mileage shall be filed on a Mileage Claim, General Form 101.
      (2)   Mileage for Howard County courts - home visits outside normal
business hours (I.C. 11-13-1-1(c)). Mileage shall be reimbursable for business
purposes such as conducting home visits on probation clients with the prior
approval of the Court or the Chief Probation Officer/Department Head. In the
case of home visits for probation clients, mileage shall only be reimbursable
for travel within Howard County.
         (a)   Please attach a copy of the Google Map, which shows the
beginning and ending destination of your travel. If a detour is active in your
travel, please add the mileage to your Google Map and initial.
         (b)   Howard County Board of Health. Mileage shall be reimbursable for
business purposes such as conducting inspections with the prior approval of the
Administrator of the Health Department. Mileage shall only be reimbursable for
travel within Howard County.
   (B)   Transportation. Whenever practical, travel will be accomplished in a
county owned vehicle or via common carrier. Employees are expected to limit
travel expenses to reasonable and economical amounts. Air travel shall be
reimbursable for coach class only. The expense of parking and or tolls will be
reimbursed based upon a supported receipt. The cost of renting a vehicle,
excluding personal usage, shall be reimbursable if suitable local public
transportation is not available or practicable. The least expensive practical
vehicle shall be rented. Collision Damage Waiver (CDW) or Liability Damage
Waiver (LDW) insurance covering the rented vehicle is a reimbursable expense.
   (C)   Subsistence. Employees may be reimbursed for meals including gratuity
for travel up to $50 per day. However, for travel days, the per diem for meals
shall be reduced depending upon the departure time. For a departure time after
6:00 a.m. the per diem will be reduced by $8; for a departure time after 12:00
p.m., the per diem shall be reduced by $23; and, if the departure time is after
6:00 p.m., no per diem can be reimbursed. Upon returning, per diem for meals
shall be reduced depending upon arrival times. For an arrival time prior 6:00
a.m. a per diem will not be reimbursed; for an arrival time after 6:00 a.m. the
per diem will be reduced by $42; for an arrival time after 12:00 p.m., the per
diem shall be reduced by $23; and, if the arrival time is after 6:00 p.m., a
full per diem can be reimbursed. If eligible for full day reimbursement, no
limits on meals are required but reimbursement for meals will not exceed the
maximum daily subsistence amount. The conference/ meeting agenda and fully
itemized receipts for meals are required. No alcoholic beverages are allowed
for reimbursement. The employee is not eligible to receive any reimbursement
for meals, if the conference/meetings include meals with their agenda. Pre-paid
conference meals are assigned the following values in order to determine
remaining per-diem for non-paid meals at the same conference/meeting: breakfast
$8; lunch $15; Dinner $27.
   (D)   Lodging. 
      (1)   In-state.  An employee may be reimbursed up to a single occupancy
room rate of $99.99 plus applicable tax per day or the presumed conference rate
for lodging plus applicable tax for double occupancy. Employees of the same sex
are encouraged to share a room when traveling to the same destination. Itemized
receipts must still be submitted for lodging expenses.
      (2)   Out-of-state.  
         (a)   An employee may be reimbursed for lodging at the presumed
conference rate (for conferences or training) for lodging plus applicable tax
or the rate established by the United States General Services Administration
for other lodging (not inclusive of conferences or training). Whenever
possible, employees of the same sex are encouraged to share a room when
traveling to the same destination. Itemized receipts must still be submitted
for lodging expenses.
         (b)   An employee is not entitled to lodging or a subsistence
allowance the night before any conference, training seminar, and the like,
within the County limits of Marion County, Indiana or within 50 miles from the
place of work or home, whichever is the lesser amount.
         (c)   An employee is entitled to lodging or a subsistence allowance
for over-night travel for a two-day or longer conference, training seminar, and
the like, or more in Marion County, Indiana, in order to reduce the total cost
of the travel expenses.
      (3)   State called meetings.
         (a)   State called meeting are meetings that attendance is required by
the State Board of Accounts of certain county officials due to their employment
or elected position. An employee attending a “state called” meeting shall be
reimbursed an allowance based upon the state directive specific to such
meeting. Itemized receipts must still be submitted for all travel expenses.
         (b)   When state statutes govern the amounts of allowable travel
reimbursements, those statutes supersede our travel policy. Itemized receipts
must still be submitted for all travel expenses.
   (E)   Return of fugitive. A travel expense advance will be issued based upon
an authorized claim form. All reasonable travel expenses will be paid at the
rate listed on supported receipts. Completed travel expense reports and
receipts for all related expenses must be submitted to the Auditor’s Office
within 30 days after travel.
   (F)   General.
      (1)   Employees must submit, to the Auditor’s Office, completed Howard
County Government Travel Expense Report Form, standard properly itemized
receipts, and a Mileage Claim -General Form 101 (applicable to mileage
expenses) for all individual expenses within 30 days after travel.
      (2)   In the instance of a reimbursement request that does not apply with
the travel policy the Auditor’s Office may make immediate payments for all
approved charges. A second payment for contested expenses will be reimbursed
after review and approval by the Howard County Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   With prior approval, employees on business travel may be
accompanied by a family member or friend, when the presence of a companion will
not interfere with successful completion of business objectives. Generally,
employees are also permitted to combine personal travel with business travel;
as long as time away from work is approved, non-business and family related
expenses are the responsibility of the employee. Abuse of this business travel
expense policy, including falsifying expense reports to reflect costs not
incurred by the employee, can be grounds for disciplinary action up to and
including termination of employment. Employee pay for travel time shall be
determined according to applicable provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
      (4)   Exceptions to this travel policy may be approved by the Howard
County Board of Commissioners.
(Res. 1998-CC-21, passed - -98; Am. Res. 2014-HCCR-12, passed - - )
§ 36.05 PRISONER REIMBURSEMENT OF INCARCERATION COSTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-13-15, the Board hereby elects to implement the
provisions of the Act, effective July 1, 1998.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-50-5-4 and 36-2-13-15, a court may order persons
meeting the qualifications set forth in the Act, to execute a reimbursement
plan as directed by the court and make repayments under the plan to the county
for the costs permitted by the Act.
   (C)   The County Council of the county shall fix a per diem payable by the
prisoners which is reasonably related to the average daily cost of housing a
prisoner in the county’s facilities. Pursuant to the Act, the amount of
reimbursement shall be the sum of the lesser of such per diem determined by the
Council or $30 per day multiplied by each day or part of that such person is
lawfully detained for more than six hours, the direct cost of investigating
whether the person is indigent, and the cost of collecting the amount for which
the person is liable.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners hereby directs the Sheriff of Howard County
to develop and implement a plan to collect and account for prisoner
reimbursements pursuant to the Act. With respect to reimbursement payments
which the Sheriff fails to collect, the Board of Commissioners hereby
authorizes the County Attorney or the Assistant County Attorney to institute
legal proceedings to collect such reimbursements. As an alternative, the Board
of Commissioners may enter into a contract for collection services under I.C.
5-22-6.5-1 et seq. In either event, costs of collection may be recovered
pursuant to I.C. 36-2-13-15(d)(3).
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establish a separate, non-reverting
fund for the placement of the funds collected pursuant to the Act, to be
designated as the “Howard County Prisoner Reimbursement Fund.” Such fund may be
used for any purposes now or in the future permitted by law, which purposes
currently include the operation, construction, repair, remodeling, enlarging,
and equipment of a county jail or a juvenile detention center.
(Ord. 1998-BCC-30, passed 6-15-98; Am. Ord. 1998-CC-32, passed 7-21-98)
§ 36.06 PURCHASING PRACTICES.
   (A)   Designation of purchasing agency. The Howard County Board of
Commissioners is hereby designated as the “Purchasing Agency” for all boards,
offices, commissions, councils, departments or other establishments of Howard
County, Indiana.
   (B)   Powers of the purchasing agency. The purchasing agency designated in
division (A) of this section shall:
      (1)   Assume the duties, powers and responsibilities assigned to
purchasing agencies under the Act, I.C. 5-22-1-1 et seq.
      (2)   Establish procedures, not inconsistent with the Act or this
section, for obtaining supplies or services in a manner which will obtain the
greatest economic value for Howard County.
      (3)   Prepare specifications and notice to bidders and ascertain that
required notices are published where bidding and publication of notices are
required by law.
      (4)   Designate in writing a purchasing agent to carry out the purposes
of this section. Such purchasing agent shall act as the agent for the
purchasing agency in the administration of the duties of the purchasing agency
under the Act. The purchasing agent may not make purchases except as provided
in division (C) below.
      (5)   Designate in writing such “Limited Purchasing Agents” as the
purchasing agency deems appropriate and define in writing the limitations of
their authority consistent with division (C) below.
      (6)   To make or authorize all purchases pursuant to the Act not
delegated to the purchasing agent or limited purchasing agents under
subdivisions (4) and (5) of this division (B).
   (C)   Purchases under $150,000.
      (1)   A SMALL PURCHASE is a purchase of supplies (as defined by I.C. 5-
22-2-38) with an expected cost of less than $50,000.
      (2)   The Purchasing Agency may make a small purchase without competitive
bidding under I.C. 5-22-7-1 et seq. or quotes under I.C. 5-22-8-1 et seq. upon
such terms and conditions as it shall in its sole discretion deem appropriate.
      (3)   A Purchasing Agent is hereby authorized to make a small purchase
not to exceed an expected cost of $10,000 without competitive bidding under
I.C. 5-22-7-1 et seq. or quotes under I.C. 5-22-8-1 et seq. upon such terms and
conditions as he shall in his sole discretion deem appropriate.
      (4)   A Limited Purchasing Agent is hereby authorized to make a small
purchase not to exceed an expected cost of $5,000 without competitive bidding
under I.C. 5-22-7-1 et seq. or quotes under I.C. 5-22-8-1 et seq. upon such
terms and conditions as he shall in his sole discretion deem appropriate.
      (5)   If a purchase of supplies is expected to be at least $50,000 but
not more than $150,000, the Purchasing Agency may, in its sole discretion, opt
to proceed with receiving quotes pursuant to I.C. 5-22-8-3 rather than
competitive bidding under I.C. 5-22-7-1 et seq.
   (D)   Preference for supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all purchases by the
purchasing agency and shall be purchased unless the purchasing agency
determines in writing that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The price of supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds by
an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (E)   Purchase of services. As used in this division, the term SERVICES
means the furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a person, not involving the
delivery of specific supplies other than printed documents or other items that
are merely incidental to the required performance, including (but not limited
to) legal, medical, architectural, accounting, engineering, appraisal and
insurance services. The purchasing agency may purchase services in whatever
manner the purchasing agency determines to be reasonable and appropriate.
(Ord. 1998-BCC-29, passed 6-15-98; Am. Ord. 1998-BCC-44, passed 10-19-98; Am.
Ord. 1998-BCC-53, passed 11-16-98; Am. Ord. 2008-BCC-09, passed 3-17-08)
§ 36.07 COMMERCIAL REPRODUCTION OF ELECTRONIC DATA RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), a person who makes a
request pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-3 and receives information from the county on
disk or tape may not use such information for commercial purposes, including to
sell, advertise, or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods or services; or
sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver such information obtained by the
request to any other person for these purposes. For purposes of this section,
the term DISK or TAPE shall include any form of electronic transmission of the
information requested, where such information does not require manual re-entry
by the recipient (e.g., emailing information on attached file).
   (B)   The prohibition contained in division (A) shall not apply to:
      (1)   A request for electronic data to be used in connection with the
preparation or publication of news, for nonprofit activities, or for academic
research; or
      (2)   A request by title companies to obtain a disk from the County
Recorder pursuant to §
36.08.
   (C)   Any person who violates the terms and conditions of this section:
      (1)   Is prohibited from obtaining any further electronic data from the
county without specific approval by the Board of County Commissioners; and
      (2)   Is subject to a fine of not more than $2,500, imposed in accordance
with the procedures set forth in I.C. 36-1-6-3(b).
(Ord. BCC-1999-01, passed 1-6-99; Am. Ord. BCC-2005-52, passed 9-19-05; Am.
Ord. BCC-2007-45, passed 12-3-07)
§ 36.08 FEES FOR COPIES OF DOCUMENTS AND COPIES OF ELECTRONICS FORMATTED DATA.
   (A)   The Howard County Recorder shall charge the following amount in
addition to all filing fees mandated by statute. The County Recorder shall
charge at the rate of $2.35, per megabyte (payable on a monthly basis) for
documents retrieved on magnetic disk, plus a $5.00 handling fee per disk to
compensate for personnel’s time, plus 105% of the cost of the disk, if a disk
has not been provided.
   (B)   The Howard County Recorder shall deposit all such fees received in the
Recorder’s perpetuation fund maintained by the Howard County Auditor to be used
for perpetuation of records in the office.
(Ord. HCC-1999-04, passed 1-26-99)
§ 36.09 FEES FOR AUDITOR’S MAPPING.
   It is hereby ordained by the Board of Commissioners and County Council that
the Auditor shall charge for mapping as follows:
   (A)   Map, orthphotos, and data sales.
      (1)   $25 per CD.
      (2)   $1 per 3.5" floppy disk.
   (B)   Electronic data reproduced on laser, ink jet printing, or any other
copies shall be sold as follows:
      (1)   8½ x 11 - $.50 per sheet per side.
      (2)   8½ x 14 - $.50 per sheet per side.
      (3)   11 x 17 - $1 per sheet one side.
      (4)   24 x 36 photocopy prints - $3.
      (5)   32 x 36 photocopy prints - $4.
   (C)   The following shall be charged for Inkjet Plotter Costs. These charges
will be based on the width of the stock paper available at the department times
the length used, and not the size of the original:
      (1)   Film - $3 per square foot.
      (2)   Heavy coated bond - $.90 per square foot.
      (3)   Regular bond - $.50 per square foot.
   (D)   Reimbursement for mailing costs: (not including copy costs)
      (1)   Less than or equal to 4 oz. - $.50 for envelope and postage;
      (2)   First class greater than 4 oz., and less than or equal to 2 lbs. -
$5;
      (3)   All other - cost plus $5.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall be construed to require any employee of Howard
County to provide information contained on or within a public document of an
agency or department by telephone. Department heads and elected officials may,
but are not required to take requests for documents by phone.
   (F)   Payment for information under this section shall be made at the time
of delivery. However, an office may agree to invoice a person for the charge if
that person or company has promptly paid invoices in the past. Any person, or
their designee, requesting data shall be liable for the total charges for the
request. Any person, or their designee, who fails to pay the charges shall be
liable for the charges, plus interest, attorney’s fees, and costs of
collection.
   (G)   Nothing herein shall compel any office to charge a fee for copies if
the fee imposed by this section is contrary to state law. In the event the fees
in this section are contrary to any charges established by state statute, the
state statute shall apply.
   (H)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person other than
those authorized by the county may reproduce, store, grant access, deliver, or
sell any information obtained from any department or office of the county to
any other person, partnership, or corporation. In addition, any person who
receives information from the county shall not be permitted to use any mailing
lists, addresses, or data bases for the purpose of selling, advertising, or
soliciting the purchase of merchandise, goods, services, or to sell, loan, give
away, or otherwise deliver the information obtained by the request to any other
person.
   (I)   A copy of division (H) shall be conspicuously posted in all offices
where electronic data is sold and the restriction contained in division (H)
shall be offered to any persons who obtain copies of any public information
from the county.
   (J)   Any person who violates the terms and conditions of this section by
failing to pay or violating division (H), shall be guilty of an infraction and
may be fined up to $2,500. In the event there is a violation of division (H),
each violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (K)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8.5, the Howard County Council hereby
establishes the Howard County Electronic Data Fund. All fees charged under this
section shall be deposited in the fund. All funds in the Electronic Data Fund
shall be used only for the purposes set out in I.C. 5-14-3-8.5 and shall be
subject to appropriation by the Howard County Council.
   (L)   Any unit of government within Howard County which has provided
electronic data used by Howard County to create the electronic data covered by
this section shall receive copies of the data for that unit’s exclusive use
free of charge.
   (M)   Any person or unit of government who has a dispute, or seeks relief
from the terms of this section may seek resolution of that dispute or relief
from the Board of Commissioners of Howard County.
(Ord. BCC 2000-17, passed 4-3-00; Am. Ord. BCC 2000-16, passed 5-1-00)
§ 36.10 FEES FOR PHOTOCOPIES AND FACSIMILE TRANSMISSIONS; BULK FORM COPIES.
   (A)   Fees for photocopies and facsimile transmissions.
      (1)   Definitions. As used in this section:
         COPY. A hard paper reproduction of a public record produced by a
photocopy machine such as a Xerox or similar machine.
         PUBLIC RECORD. Any writing, paper or document made public under I.C.
5-14-3-1, et seq. and which can be reproduced on a photocopy machine or
transmitted on a facsimile machine.
      (2)   Application. This division (A) shall apply to the furnishing of
copies and facsimile
transmission of public records in all Howard County offices, agencies,
commissions and departments.
      (3)   Copy fee. The fee for providing a copy of a public record is hereby
fixed at $.20 per page.
      (4)   Facsimile transmission fee. The fee for providing facsimile
transmission of a public record is hereby fixed at $.00 per page.
      (5)   Exception. The fees fixed in divisions (C) and (D) hereof shall not
apply where Indiana statutes establish or authorize a different fee.
   (B)   Bulk form copies.
      (1)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply throughout this
division (B):
         BULK FORM COPY. An aggregation of:
            1.   Copies of all recorded documents received by the County
Recorder for recording in a calendar day, week, month, or year;
            2.   The indices for finding, retrieving, and viewing all recorded
documents received by the County Recorder for recording in a calendar day,
week, month, or year; or
            3.   Both clauses 1. and 2.
         BULK USER. An individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited
liability company, or an unincorporated association that receives bulk form
copies under a contract with the County Recorder.
          COPY. A reproduction, including an image or indices created by:
            1.   Duplicating electronically stored data onto a disk, tape,
drum, or any other medium of electronic data storage; or
         INDICES. All of the indexing information used by the County Recorder
for finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
         RECORDED DOCUMENT. A writing, a paper, a document, a plat, a map, a
survey, or anything else received at any time for recording or filing in the
public records maintained by the County Recorder or the County Recorder's
designee.
       (2)   Manner and form of production. It is hereby established that the
Howard County Recorder shall provide bulk form copies to a bulk user only by
electronically transmitting the copies using an electronic transfer process.
      (3)   Procedure for requesting bulk form copies. A bulk user must submit
a written request to the County Recorder that identifies the requested bulk
form copies with reasonable particularity. Unless the request is refused under
division (B)(6) below, upon receipt of a valid written request the County
Recorder or the County Recorder's designee shall provide the bulk form copies
to the bulk user by the method or methods established by ordinance. The bulk
form copies shall be provided within a reasonable time after the later of the
following events:
          (a)   The Recorder’s archival process is completed and bulk form
copies become available in the County Recorder’s office.
         (b)   The bulk form user executes a contract that meets the
requirements of division (B)(5) with:
             1.   The County Recorder; and
            2.   If the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder's designee.
            The County Recorder or the County Recorder's designee shall work
with reasonable diligence to ensure that bulk form copies are timely produced
to the bulk user.
      (4)   Fees charged for bulk form copies.
         (a)   Based on a cost study dated September 12, 2016 and performed by
Maximus for the Indiana Recorder's Association (which is incorporated herein by
reference), this Board finds and determines that the costs incurred by the
Howard County Recorder of producing bulk form copies (including applying a
watermark or other protective feature) substantially exceed both the standard
fee of ten cents ($0.10) per page or per recorded document fixed by subsection
(d) of I.C. 36-2-7-10.1, and the fee hereafter fixed. Accordingly, the
following fee schedule is hereby adopted:
            1.   Thirteen cents ($0.13) per page for a copy of a recorded
document, including the instrument's book and page, if applicable.
            2.   Thirteen cents ($0.13) per recorded document for a copy of the
indices used by the County Recorder for finding, retrieving, and viewing a
recorded document.
         (b)   The fees charged by the County Recorder are subject to the
following requirements:
            1.   The County Recorder shall pay the fees into the county
treasury at the end of each calendar month.
            2.   The fees prescribed and collected under this division (B)
supersede all other fees for bulk form copies required by law to be charged for
services rendered by the County Recorder to bulk users.
            3.   All revenue generated by the County Recorder under this
section shall be deposited in the County Recorder's records perpetuation fund
and used by the Recorder in accordance with I.C. 36-2-7-10(f).
            4.   The Recorder shall periodically update and verify the cost
study referred to in subsection (B)(4)(a) immediately above.
      (5)   Bulk user contract-termination.
         (a)   A bulk user must enter into a contract with the County Recorder
and if the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy services,
the County Recorder's designee, in order to receive bulk form copies. The
contract must be in writing and must require that the bulk user agree not to do
any of the following:
            1.   Except as provided in division (B)(6), provide, transfer, or
allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded document obtained by the bulk user
under this section to a third party.
            2.   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents.
            3.   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents.
            A contract required under this subsection may not include any
restrictions on a bulk form user's use of the bulk form copies other than those
contained in this section.
         (b)   If a bulk user does not comply with a contract, the County
Recorder may terminate the contract, immediately stop providing bulk form
copies to the bulk user, and refuse to provide the bulk form copies required by
the bulk user if all termination provisions and procedures in the contract have
been met by the County Recorder. The County Recorder may refuse subsequent
requests from a bulk user for bulk form copies in the following circumstances:
            1.   The bulk user is a person that has had a previous bulk form
copy contract terminated
by the County Recorder because the Recorder determined that the bulk user
failed to comply with the contract.
            2.   The bulk user is a corporation or limited liability company in
which a person has a majority or controlling interest and:
               a.   The person requested bulk form copies under a previous
contract with the County Recorder; and
               b.   The contract was terminated by the County Recorder because
the County Recorder determined that the person failed to comply with the
contract.
      (6)   Resale of bulk form copies by bulk user.
         (a)   A bulk user that is licensed under I.C. 27-1-15.6-6(d) or holds
a certificate of authority under I.C. 27-7-3-6 may provide bulk form copies
related to the specific order for a title search (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2)
when operating as:
            1.   A title plant for the issuance of title insurance (as defined
in I.C. 27-7-3-2); or
            2.   Title company (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2).
         A bulk user that meets the requirements of this subsection may charge
its customers a fee for using the bulk form copies obtained by the bulk user
that may not exceed the costs incurred by the bulk user for obtaining the bulk
form copies. A bulk user that meets the requirements of this subsection may not
resell, provide, transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded
document, whether in bulk form or as individual copies or images, to any other
bulk user or title plant.
         (b)   A bulk user that does not meet the requirements of subsection
(B)(6)(a) immediately above is prohibited from selling, offering for sale,
advertising for sale, soliciting a purchase of, loaning, giving away, allowing
subscription service to, or otherwise transferring, provide, or allowing the
transfer of bulk form copies for commercial purposes to a third party, whether
the copies are in bulk form or individual copies or images.
      (7)   Enhanced access not affected. This division (B) does not apply to
enhanced access authorized under I.C. 5-14-3-3 and any Howard County Ordinances
promulgated thereunder, including (but not limited to) Ordinance No. 2007 BCCO-
45 (See §
36.07).
(Ord. CC 1999-29, passed 6-22-99; Am. Ord. 2017 BCCO-22, passed 6-5-17)
§ 36.11 VETERANS’ BURIAL ALLOWANCES.
   Pursuant to I.C. 10-5-3-1, the maximum burial allowances provided for
therein are fixed as follows:
   (A)   One-hundred dollars where the claim is for setting a Veterans’
Administration-supplied marker only;
   (B)   Two-hundred dollars where the claim is for burial expenses only; and
   (C)   Three-hundred dollars where the claim is for both the setting of a
marker and burial expenses.
(Ord. BCC-2003-25, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 2023-BCCO-20, passed 7-3-23)
§ 36.12 RULES FOR USE OF GOVERNMENT CENTER MEETING ROOMS.
   (A)   Rooms are available for use by county officers or county employees for
the conduct of county business. Any other informational or educational meeting
use must have prior approval from the Building Superintendent and the use will
be limited. County office use shall have scheduling priority. The current non-
county organizations approved for use are as follows:
      (1)   Bankruptcy court: One day per month, Room 101, Government Center.
      (2)   Workers’ compensation hearings: One day per month, Room 101,
Government Center.
      (3)   AARP tax help training: Five days in January, Room 101, Government
Center.
      (4)   AARP individual tax help: One day per week, February through April,
Room 107, Government Center.
   (B)   A county employee will be responsible for the meeting held in the
building.
   (C)   All meetings must be scheduled 48 hours in advance. The Howard county
Extension Office, Room 105 of the Government Center, is responsible for
scheduling meeting rooms in the government Center and shall maintain a calendar
for such purpose. The Howard County Auditor, Room 222 in the Administration
Center, is responsible for scheduling meeting rooms in the Administration
Center and shall maintain a calendar for such purpose.
   (D)   Scheduling conflicts will be handled on a first scheduled, first
served basis.
   (E)   Canceled meetings are to be removed from the calendar immediately, so
someone else may use the room and doors are not unlocked unnecessarily.
   (F)   With respect to weekends and official holidays when county offices are
closed:
      (1)   All entrance doors are to remain locked. At no time are the
entrance doors to be left unlocked or propped open.
      (2)   The county employee using the building during these periods is
responsible for the building’s security. Meetings that require entry into the
building, by anyone other than the employee(s) using the building, must have
someone posted at the door to allow entry to authorized persons.
   (G)   It is the responsibility of the group using the meeting room to clean
up. While food and drinks are allowed, it is the group using the room’s
responsibility to clean up any spills or food on the floor or tables. Cleaning
supplies and sweepers are available in the kitchen area of the Government
Center, and through the maintenance department at the Administration Center.
   (H)   Chairs, tables and other room arrangements will be the total
responsibility of the office holding the meeting, and to return the room to its
previous condition.
   (I)   Any item (i.e. TV, DVD player, books, papers, charts, maps and the
like) brought into a meeting must be removed from the room at the conclusion of
the meeting. Any item left in the room will be considered unwanted waste and
will be discarded by the maintenance employees.
   (J)   Any meeting requiring the entrance door to be unlocked after 4:00 p.m.
will be monitored. If any meeting concludes well ahead of the scheduled ending
time, the night maintenance staff should be notified so that doors can be
locked. The night maintenance supervisor’s cell phone number is : 765-432-8260.
   (K)   Any proposed meeting that does not comply with these rules must
receive special approval from the Extension Office or Auditor, as applicable,
whose decision shall be final.
   (L)   No animals will be allowed in the meeting rooms with the exception of
service animals.
   (M)   Use of the meeting room is a privilege and the County Board of
Commissioners reserves the right to suspend the privilege for any group that
does not adhere to these rules.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-34, passed 12-19-05; Am. Res. 2011-BCCR-11, passed 5-2-11; Am.
Res. 2014-BCCR-3, passed 2-3-14)
§ 36.13 ADVANCE PAYMENT OF CLAIMS AND PAYMENT OF MEMBERSHIP DUES AND
SUBSCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   Advance payment of claims.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-4.5, the Auditor may make claim payments in
advance of Board allowance (under I.C. 36-2-6-4) for the following kinds of
expenses (hereinafter referred to as “expenses”), so long as the requirements
set forth hereafter are first met:
         (a)   Expenses for authorized county- related travel which are
required to be paid in advance, including registration fees and transportation
tickets.
         (b)   Insurance premiums, if necessary to procure or continue
coverage.
         (c)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
      (2)   Each payment of expenses under this division (A) must be supported
by a fully itemized invoice or bill (i.e., claim) and certification by the
County Auditor as required under I.C. 5-11-10-1.6(c)(1) through (4), inclusive.
      (3)   Before payment is made, the Board must give its prior written
approval endorsed on the invoice or bill submitted. The Board hereby delegates
to the President (or in his or her absence, the Vice- President) the authority
to grant such approval on behalf of the Board.
      (4)   Payment of expenses under this section must be published in the
manner specified in I.C. 36-2-6-3(d) (i.e., one publication in The Tribune and
The Herald).
      (5)   The Board shall review and allow the claim at its next regular
meeting following the preapproval made under division (A)(3) above.
   (B)   Payment of membership dues and subscriptions.
      (1)   County funds may be used to provide memberships and subscriptions
to publications for the county and its elected and appointed officials in
local, regional, state and national organizations of a civic, educational or
governmental nature which have as their stated purpose the betterment and
improvement of county government operations.
      (2)   Attached as Exhibit A to Ordinance BCC 2005-60 is the list of
approved organizations and subscriptions designated by the County Council as
meeting the criteria set forth in division (B)(1). The Council may appropriate
funds to pay memberships and subscriptions for the county and its elected and
appointed officials in these, and only these, organizations. Likewise, the
Board may allow properly documented claims for such membership dues and
subscriptions.
      (3)   Dues in legal professional associations, such as the Indiana State
and American Bar Associations, as well as disciplinary fees payable to the
Supreme Court Disciplinary Commission, shall not be paid from county funds.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-60, passed 11-7-05)
§ 36.14 COUNTY COURTHOUSE SECURITY RULES.
   (A)   Identification. All county employees shall be issued an identification
badge that shall include the employee’s picture. State employees whose offices
are located with in the County Courthouse shall also be issued Howard County ID
badges. Employees are to wear their ID badge at all times while in the
Courthouse. Employee shall not wear their ID badges outside the Courthouse.
Lost or stolen badges must be reported to security immediately, and there is a
$10 fee for replacement of lost or stolen badges.
   (B)   Employee entrance to the Courthouse. All employees who have been
provided with an ID badge, properly coded for entrance to the Courthouse, who
enter through the west employee door, must swipe their badge at the entrance
card reader (ECR), even if the door is already open. Employees entering through
the east door must follow the same process as frequent visitors, as described
below, including swiping their ID badge at the ECR, and are subject to security
screening.
   (C)   Employee exit from the Courthouse. All employees, when leaving for the
day, using the west door, must swipe their ID badge at the exit card reader
(XCR), even if the door is already open. Employees may leave through the east
door during the day, swiping their ID badge at the XCR.
   (D)   Visitor entrance to the Courthouse. All visitors shall enter only
through the east door and must pass through security.
   (E)   Frequent visitor passes. Certain frequent visitors may be issued
frequent visitor passes (FVP). Frequent visitors must use the east entrance and
swipe their FVP at the entrance card reader station. The card reader station
shall be equipped with a green and red light system. Once the FVP is read and a
green light is displayed, the visitor may bypass security. If the system
displays a red light, the visitor must go through security, including X-Ray and
magnetometer. Any person entering through the east door shall be subject to
security screening, at the sole discretion of the security officers. Lost or
stolen passes must be reported immediately to security.
   (F)   Visitor exit from the Courthouse. All visitors shall exit through the
east door only. Frequent visitors shall swipe their FVP at the exit card reader
when exiting.
   (G)   Requirements for frequent visitors. Individuals who wish to be
considered a frequent visitor and obtain a FVP must apply at the Courthouse
security office. The application for a FVP will be reviewed by the Security
Committee prior to issuing a pass. The Security Committee may revoke a FVP at
any time at its sole discretion. There shall be a $50 fee for a FVP, payable to
Howard County. There is a $10 fee for replacing lost or stolen badges.
   (H)   Restricted items, masks and disruptive conduct.
      (1)   Weapons. Except as provided in division (I), weapons are prohibited
in the Courthouse. WEAPONS include firearms; knives; tasers and stun guns;
clubs; explosives; hazardous materials; toxic chemicals; signs, posters or
placards larger than ten inches by 15 inches excepting court exhibits; or any
other item or instrument deemed by security officers to present an immediate
threat to the safety and security of the Courthouse.
      (2)   Masks. Facial coverings that hide a person’s identity (excepting
medical devices used for bona fide medical reasons which can be removed to
allow identification) are prohibited in the Courthouse.
      (3)   Disruptive conduct. Disruptive conduct is prohibited in the
Courthouse; and any person engaging in disruptive conduct is subject to removal
from the Courthouse by security officers. Disruptive conduct includes any
actions, noises or sounds which, in the judgment of security officers, is
disrupting or interfering with the normal course of judicial and administrative
business conducted in the Courthouse. Provided, however, recognizing that the
first floor rotunda is a public forum, security officers will make every
reasonable effort to balance the public’s right to assemble in the rotunda with
the decorum necessary to effectively operate the Howard County judicial system.
   (I)   Exceptions to restricted items. On-duty law enforcement and Courthouse
security officers shall be allowed to carry their weapons while on official
business in the Courthouse. Law enforcement officers (Police Officer, Sheriff
and deputies, Town Marshal and deputies, Conservation Officers, State Excise
Officers, any Federal Enforcement Officer, as defined by I.C. 35-41-1-17(b))
must sign in at the security office. Law enforcement officers who are off-duty
or involved in a civil case shall place their weapons in the weapons lockers in
the security office.
   (J)   Violations and sanctions.
      (1)   County employees. These rules are hereby added to the work rule
violations set forth in Section 6.12.2 of the Howard County Employee
Handbook. Thus, any county employee violating these rules shall be subject to
discipline under Section 6.12.1 of the Handbook, up to and including
termination from employment.
      (2)   Non-county employees. Any other person violating these rules shall
be subject to fines of up to $2,500 in accordance with §
10.99 of the Code of Howard County.
      (3)   Confiscation of passes. In addition to the sanctions set forth in
(1) and (2) above, security officers are hereby empowered to confiscate and
deactivate the pass of any employee or frequent visitor who has violated this
section or any rules or procedures established by the Security Committee
pursuant to this section.
(Ord. BCC-2007-30, passed 7-2-07; Am. Ord. BCC-2007-34, passed 8-6-07; Am. Ord.
BCC-2009-14, passed 4-20-09; Am. Ord. 2013-BCCO-2, passed 2-4-13)
§ 36.15 UNIFORM CATEGORIES FOR TRAVEL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the “Howard County all hazards travel
section” and shall apply to all roads maintained by the Howard County Highway
Department within the unincorporated areas of Howard County.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29.5(a), Howard County hereby adopts the
following three uniform categories of travel advisories:
      (1)   “Advisory,” the lowest level of local travel advisory, means that
routine travel or activities may be restricted in areas because of a hazardous
situation, and individuals should use caution or avoid those areas.
      (2)   “Watch” means that conditions are threatening to the safety of the
public. During a “watch” local travel advisory, only essential travel, such as
to and from work or in emergency situations, is recommended, and emergency
action plans should be implemented by businesses, schools, government agencies,
and other organizations.
      (3)   “Warning,” the highest level of local travel advisory, means that
travel may be restricted to emergency management workers only.
         (a)   During a “warning” local travel advisory, individuals are
directed to:
            1.   Refrain from all travel;
            2.   Comply with necessary emergency measures;
            3.   Cooperate with public officials and disaster services forces
in executing emergency operations plans; and
            4.   Obey and comply with the lawful directions of properly
identified officers.
         (b)   Further and more specific restrictions, including parking
restrictions, may be included in a “warning” local travel advisory.
   (C)   Before issuing a local travel advisory, to the extent reasonably
possible under existing conditions, the Commissioners shall consult with any
one or more of the following county officials or their representatives: the
Howard County Sheriff, the Howard County Highway Superintendent and/or the
Howard County Emergency Management Director.
   (D)   If the Commissioners determine that a local travel advisory should be
issued as part of an emergency declaration under I.C. 10-14-3-29, they shall
designate such travel advisory as falling into one of the three categories
specified in division (B) above.
   (E)   If the Commissioners or the Howard County Emergency Management
Director, acting individually or jointly, determine that conditions within the
unincorporated areas of Howard County have created the need for travel advisory
restrictions without an emergency declaration under I.C. 10-14-3-29, either the
Commissioners or Howard County Emergency Management Director may issue an
“advisory” or “watch level” travel advisory. However, a “warning” level travel
advisory may be issued only after the Commissioners have declared a local
disaster emergency under I.C. 10-14-3-29.
   (F)   Publication and broadcast of the issuance and cancellation of any
local travel advisory shall be released to the media as soon as reasonably
possible for the Commissioners or the Howard County Emergency Management
Director.
   (G)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-34, any person who knowingly, intentionally
or recklessly violates the restrictions imposed by the issuance of a “watch” or
“warning” travel advisory under divisions (D) and (E) above commits a class B
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2012-BCCO-4, passed 2-6-12)
§ 36.16 RESTRICTED ADDRESSES.
   (A)   Scope. This policy applies to, and only to, Howard County’s public
property database website that (a) is available to the general public over the
Internet; (b) does not require registration, subscription or the creation of a
user name and password to search the website; and (c) connects a covered
person’s home address to the covered person’s name, so that search of the
website for the covered person’s name discloses the covered person’s address.
   (B)   Persons covered. This policy applies to the following “covered
persons,” as more particularly defined in I.C. 36-1-8.5-3, 4, and 4.5, which
definitions are incorporated herein by reference:
      (1)   A judge;
      (2)   A law enforcement officer;
      (3)   A victim of domestic violence; or
      (4)   A public official.
   (C)   Responsible department. The Howard County Auditor’s Office shall have
the responsibility for receiving and processing requests for restricted
addresses made by covered persons.
   (D)   Application for restricted addresses.
      (1)   By an individual. An individual covered person desiring to restrict
his/her address shall complete and file with the Howard County Auditor the
Application for Restricted Access form attached to the ordinance codified
herein as Exhibit A. The Auditor will verify (with applicable agencies, if
necessary) that the submission is valid and the applicant is a “covered
person”. Victims of domestic violence must submit proof of program
participation in the Indiana Attorney General’s address confidentiality
program. If an application is denied by the Auditor, the applicant may appeal
in writing to the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   By a cooperative agency. The Kokomo Police Department, Howard
County Sheriff’s Department, Prosecutor’s Office or similar agency (a
“cooperative agency”) may agree to provide the Auditor’s Office an annual bulk
request including all current covered persons within the department or agency.
This list shall also include those individuals who have moved from their
primary residence or are otherwise no longer a “covered person”. This list
shall remain confidential pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8.5-11.
      (3)   Post application requirements. Should any changes to the title of a
covered parcel occur, the Auditor will remove that parcel from the restricted
address list and a new request must be made by a covered person to again
include that parcel in the restricted list. If a covered person transfers title
to or moves from a covered parcel, it is his/her responsibility to file a new
application for a new covered parcel. This policy is in effect for requestor’s
primary residence only per I.C. 36-1-8.5-7. If the requestor owns or is
involved in additional properties that utilize the primary home address as the
mailing address, they will be displayed, if the applicant wishes to have those
addresses removed as well, a new application is required for each.
   (E)   Required system changes. To further implement restricted addresses,
the following changes will be made to the appropriate Howard County information
systems or third party systems managed by Howard County:
      (1)   GIS. The search results for GIS will reflect the changes made to
the MVP Database for those records marked as “Confidential”. These records will
display “Information withheld in accordance with I.C. 36-1-8.5-4" in place of
the name information. It is the intention of Howard County to comply with the
intent of the code to not make the property accessible by means of removing the
link between name and parcel information.
      (2)   Schneider beacon portal. Once the option to suppress has been
enabled for a specific parcel, it will not be returned in search results or
display on the map.
   (F)   Confidentiality. All applications made to Howard County by a covered
person are confidential records and not subject to public access.
   (G)   Immunity. Howard County may not be held liable for failure to timely
restrict disclosure of an address under this chapter unless its act or omission
constitutes gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct.
   (H)   Application fees.
      (1)   Exclusion. Victims of domestic violence will be excluded from fees
imposed under this section.
      (2)   Initial request. A fee of $15 per parcel will be assessed for both
bulk and individual requests.
      (3)   Additional requests: A $15 per parcel fee will be assessed for any
changes to the title of the parcel or relocation of the covered person.
      (4)   Deposits. All fees collected will be deposited to the County
General Fund.
   (I)   Amendment. Howard County reserves the right to amend or revise the
contents of this policy as deemed suitable. The revised policy will be
available on the County website.
(Ord. 2015-BCCO-18, passed 7-6-15)
§ 36.17 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   (A)   Classification of assets. Capital assets are personal and real
property used in the operations of the county that have an expected estimated
useful life beyond a single period. Capital assets are to include any item that
falls into one of the following state categories:
      (1)   Buildings;
      (2)   Construction work in progress;
      (3)   Equipment;
      (4)   Improvements other than buildings;
      (5)   Infrastructure; and
      (6)   Land.
   (B)   Capitalization thresholds.
      (1)   To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting purposes,
an item (other than land) must be at or above the capitalization threshold and
have a unit historical cost of $1,000 or more. The capitalization threshold for
all assets is $1,000, regardless of classification.
      (2)   With regard to improvements and buildings and general
infrastructure, a capital outlay must be significant and increase capacity,
increase efficiency or extend the asset's estimated useful life beyond the
original expectation.
      (3)   A change in capacity increases the level of service provided by the
asset. A change in efficiency increases the level of service but without
increasing the size of the asset or the change maintains the same level of
service at a lower cost.
      (4)   For example, an addition to a building provides increased square
footage, hence, the capacity is increased and the capital outlay is
capitalized. Widening a road with additional lanes increases capacity and
hence, the capital outlay is capitalized. An extended estimated useful life
involves a significant alteration, structural change or improvement.
      (5)   While substantial repairs and renovations will be reviewed for
potential capitalization, it is anticipated that most will be expenses in the
current year. These expenses often merely restore the asset to the original
service potential but do not necessarily improve the asset.
      (6)   All land, including rights-of-way, is capitalized at the time of
acquisition regardless of historical costs or fair value if donated.
   (C)   Historical cost or estimated historical costs.
      (1)   Prospective reporting. Capital assets are recorded at historical
cost which includes any ancillary charges necessary to place the asset into its
intended location and condition for use. Ancillary charges include, for
example, freight and transportation charges, site preparation costs, and
professional fees. Engineering costs (internal and external) include related
preliminary project and environmental studies; project estimating, design, and
planning (drawings and specifications); and construction engineering,
construction management, construction inspection and project payment. Donated
capital assets are recorded at their estimated fair value at the time of
acquisition.
      (2)   Retroactive reporting. When actual historical cost source data was
unavailable, estimated historical cost was developed utilizing a normal costing
approach. With this method of estimating historical cost, a current replacement
cost was ascertained. An appropriate cost index (including Consumer Price Index
and Federal Highway Price Trends) corresponding to an estimated date of
acquisition/construction was then applied to 'deflate' the replacement cost to
an estimated historical cost.
   (D)   Estimated useful lives of depreciable assets. Capital assets have
estimated useful lives extending beyond a single reporting period (one year)
and are depreciated using the straight-line method with no allowance for
salvage value. The estimated useful lives currently used were developed with
the input of knowledgeable staff and reflect our government's experience with
these assets:
 
Land and Improvements to Land           Non- depreciable
Buildings and improvements to buildings 50 years
Machinery and equipment                 3 - 25 years
General infrastructure                   
   Roads                             50 years
   Bridges                           75 years
   Drains                            50 years
 
   (E)   Depreciation method/convention. Depreciation will be calculated using
the straight-line method on a daily basis. No salvage value or residual value
will be recognized.
   (F)   Retirements.
      (1)   Retirements apply to all capital assets including land, buildings,
machinery and equipment, vehicles and general infrastructure.
      (2)   When an asset is disposed of, scrapped, sold, subject to
demolition, etc., it is to be removed from the property record and the
appropriate reduction will be made to historical cost, accumulated
depreciation, and net book value amounts.
      (3)   Retirements will reflect the actual historical cost of the asset
when the amount is ascertainable. When historical cost is not ascertainable, an
estimated historical cost will be determined.
   (G)   Responsibility for property record maintenance.
      (1)   Department heads are the stewards for each piece of property
utilized by their department. The steward will be the focal point for questions
for availability, condition, and usage of the asset.
      (2)   The steward shall be designated as the person to record the receipt
of the asset, to examine the asset to make sure no damage was incurred during
shipment, and to make sure the asset was received in working order. The steward
is also responsible for arranging the necessary preventative maintenance and
any needed repairs to keep the asset in working condition. The steward also
ensures that the asset is used for the purpose for which it was acquired and
that there is no personal or unauthorized use. The steward is responsible for
reporting any loss, theft, or damage to the assets.
(Res. 2018 BCCR-14, passed 8-6-18; Am. Res. 2023-BCCR-4, passed 3-20-23)
§ 36.18 GRANT POLICY.
   (A)   Any county department ("Department”) that has a proposed grant will
present the grant proposal to the Board for approval at a regularly scheduled
meeting. The grant application must be completed and signed by the office
holder or department head, or the appropriate person in charge if the
application is submitted by an organization or individual other than a county
department.
   (B)   The Department will complete and remit the grant application and all
other required information to the grantor agency for approval. Once grant
approval has been obtained from the grantor agency, the grant approval
documentation must be delivered to the Auditor and be placed on the County
Commissioners' agenda no less than seven calendar days prior to the
Commissioners' meeting. If the grant requires a budget it must also be
presented along with the grant application.
   (C)   The Board will review and consider the grant application and will
approve or deny the application for all grants for personal services, supplies,
other services and charges, and capital outlay. The grant application must be
approved and signed by the Board, and the application shall be in the form
approved by the Board, prior to submission to the grantor agency.
   (D)   The Auditor will establish a separate fund and file for each grant and
each grant file shall include a grant summary in a form provided by the
Auditor.
   (E)   The Department will provide the Auditor's office with the following:
grant application, grant award letter, grant agreement, budget, claim vouchers
with supporting invoices, requests for advances, and reports with supporting
documentation. The Auditor will place these documents in the grant file.
   (F)   The Department will also maintain its own grant file to include all
grant documents that have been submitted to the Auditor.
   (G)   The Department must complete a grant monies requested form each time
the county is to receive grant funding, with claims vouchers and requests for
advances attached to the form.
   (H)   It is the responsibility of the Department to comply with the
grantor's reporting requirements. Final reports, with supporting documentation,
will be provided to the Auditor. Reports detailing receipts, disbursements and
balances of grant funds will be provided to the Department monthly.
   (I)   The bookkeeper will generate monthly reports from the county financial
system and compare reports to information in the grant files. The bookkeeper
will enter the information into Gateway from information obtained from the
financial records and grant files.
   (J)   The Auditor will review and check the accuracy of the grant
information by comparing it to the supporting documentation used to input the
information before submission.
   (K)   The Auditor will send the Gateway report to the Department for review.
The Department will verify the information and will include documentation of
the review, and will verify all information and make any corrections that are
necessary. The Auditor will review any differences noted by the Department
before changes are made to the Gateway information.
(Res. 2018 BCCR-23, passed 11-5-18)
§ 36.19 PROCUREMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose, scope, and effective period.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   The purpose of this policy is to provide uniform procurement
procedures to be used by the County of Howard, Indiana and by the departments,
agencies, and offices of the County. Additionally, this policy should enable
constancy both over time and amongst the various units and should also enable
the county to remain compliant with the various State and Federal laws to which
the county is subject.
         (b)   This policy is intended to supplement I.C. Title 5, Chapter 22
(Public Purchasing) and Title 2 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 200
(Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements
for Federal Awards) and should be interpreted and applied in a fashion
consistent with that intention. In the event that a conflict should arise
between this policy and any State or Federal law, the State or Federal laws at
issue shall be treated as the controlling authority.
      (2)   Scope. This policy shall apply to purchases made by the County of
Howard, Indiana and also to purchased made by the departments, offices, and
agencies of the County. In general, purchases of supplies, capital assets and
equipment, and most other routine purchases will be subject to this policy;
however, pursuant to I.C. 5-22-1-3 (Excluded items; exceptions) this policy
does not apply to (i) contracts between the County and other governmental body
(except as authorized pursuant to I.C. 5-22 (Public Purchasing)), (ii) public
works projects, (iii) collective bargaining agreements between the County and
its employees, (iv) employment relationship between the County and its
employees, (v) investments of public funds, (vi) contracts between the County
and a body corporate and politic, and (vii) contracts for social services.
      (3)   Effective period. This policy shall take effect upon passage, and
shall continue in effect indefinitely or until such time as this policy is
amended or repealed by a subsequent procurement policy. This policy and the
underlying State and Federal laws should be reviewed periodically and this
policy should be updated and revised as necessary.
   (B)   Defined terms. For the purpose of this policy, the following
definitions shall apply. Other terms used in this policy shall be assumed to
have the same meaning as they are given in I.C. 5-22.
      ACT.  I.C. 5-22 (Public Purchasing).
      BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of Howard County, Indiana.
      PURCHASE. 
         (a)   To buy, procure, rent, lease, or otherwise acquire and shall
include the following activities:
            1.   Description of requirements;
            2.   Solicitation or selection of services;
            3.   Preparation and award of contract;
            4.   All phrases of contract administration; and
            5.   All functions that pertain to purchasing.
         (b)   However, the term PURCHASING shall not apply to the following:
            1.   Public works as defined and governed by I.C. 36-1-12-1;
            2.   Contracts between governmental bodies, except contracts
authorized under I.C. Title 5, Chapter 22;
            3.   Employment relationships between the county (including the
departments thereof) and an employee;
            4.   Investments of public funds; and
            5.   Contracts between a governmental body and a body corporate and
politic.
      PURCHASING AGENCY. A governmental body that is authorized to enter into
contracts by this article, rules adopted under this section, or by another law.
      PURCHASING AGENT. An individual authorized by a purchasing agency to act
as an agent for the purchasing agency in the administration of the duties of
the purchasing agency.
      SMALL PURCHASE. A purchase that is for an amount that is less than
$150,000.
      SPECIAL PURCHASE. A purchase authorized under I.C. 5-22-10 (Special
Purchasing Methods) and set forth herein under division (C)(6) (Special
Purchasing Methods).
   (C)   Purchasing procedures.
      (1)   Purchases must be supported by appropriation. Each purchase must be
supported by an available and unencumbered appropriation before legally
obligating the county to the purchase. If the purchasing agent is uncertain as
to the availability of an existing appropriate, either within his or her own
office or department budget or within the budget of another office or
department, the purchasing agent shall consult with the Board before initiating
the solicitation process. In the event that an available and unencumbered
appropriation does not exist, approval for an additional appropriation must be
received from the Howard County Council prior to initiation of the solicitation
process. Purchasing agents holding a position appointed by the Board shall
request approval from the Board before submission of request for an additional
appropriation to the Council. Elected officials may seek approval of an
additional appropriation from the Howard County Council without first
requesting approval of the same form the Board.
      (2)   Purchase of services.
         (a)   In general. Services may be purchased by any means that have
been approved by the Board and that protect the interest of the county while
also providing for fair competition and unless otherwise required by the Board
for applicable law, a purchasing agent is not required to request any set
number of quotes or to follow any specific process for requesting quotes. Each
contract for services must be approved by the Board or applicable law, a
purchasing agent is not required to request any set number of quotes or to
follow any specific process for requesting quotes. Each contract for services
must be approved by the Board.
         (b)   Building maintenance. The County Administrator is authorized to
hire service providers (such as plumbers, electricians, HVAC repairman, etc.)
with respect to maintenance of the buildings owned by the county. The County
Administrator may hire service providers utilizing such purchase methods as
shall protect the interest of the county while also providing for fair
competition. The County Administrator shall not be required to request any set
number of quotes or to follow any specific process for requesting quotes when
hiring service providers pursuant to this subsection. In the event that the
County Administrator reasonably expects that certain maintenance work may be
accomplished for a cost of less than $7,500 and without the necessity of
entering into a contract, the County Administrator may proceed with hiring
service providers to accomplish the work without obtaining approval from the
Board. All other maintenance work should be approved by the Board prior to
initiation.
      (3)   Small purchases.
         (a)   Applicability. This division shall apply to those purchases that
a purchasing agent reasonably expects to be made for an amount less than
$150,000. In the event that a purchasing agent is uncertain with respect to the
expected purchase amount, the purchasing agent should assume the highest
reasonably expectable amount. Purchases may not be artificially divided in an
attempt to reduce the amount to be reasonably expected. Questions regarding the
appropriately applicable section or subsection with respect to a given
contemplated purchase should be directed to the County Administrator who may
even refer any such questions to the County Attorney if necessary.
         (b)   Applicable statutes. This section is written in conformity with
I.C. 5-22-8 (Small Purchases) and should be interpreted and applied in a
fashion consistent therewith, including any revisions or amendments thereto.
         (c)   Routine purchase of supplies. Supplies, such as office supplies
and janitorial supplies, should be requisitioned from the County Administrator.
The County Administrator is authorized to engage in the routine purchase of
supplies utilizing such purchase methods as shall protect the interests of the
county while also providing for fair competition. The County Administrator
shall not be required to request any set number of quotes or to follow any
specific process for requesting quotes when purchasing supplies pursuant to
this division (c).
         (d)   Purchase of less than $7,500. A purchase that a purchasing agent
reasonably expects to be made for an amount less than $7,500 shall be made
pursuant to the following:
            1.   Methods for inviting quotes. The purchasing agent shall
request quotes from at least three vendors, unless the purchasing agent is not
able after diligent search to identify three vendors dealing in the product to
be purchased, in which case, the purchasing agent shall request quotes from as
many vendors as may be identified. In the event that a quote request issued to
a particular vendor is not responded to, the purchasing agent shall deem that
vendor to have given a non-responsive quote and shall proceed accordingly,
however, in any such event, the purchasing agent may also request additional
quotes.
            2.   Means of communication. Quotes may be verbal or written and
may be requested by way of telephone, tele-facsimile, mail, e-mail, or other
appropriate means.
            3.   Process for selection. The purchasing agent may accept the
quote of the lowest bidder without prior approval to the Board. If the
purchasing agent believes that the lowest bidder is not the most responsive and
responsible bidder, then the purchasing agent may reject all quotes or may
submit the bids for the Board. The Board shall accept the quote submitted by
the most responsive and responsible bidder. If the Board determines that the
lowest bidder is not the most responsive and responsible bidder, the Board
shall state its reasoning and the same shall be recorded in the minutes of the
meeting. The Board may reject all quotes.
            4.   After selection. The purchasing agent shall promptly notify
the successful bidder and conclude the purchase.
         (e)   Purchase of at least $7,500 but less than $50,000. A purchase
that a purchasing agent reasonably expects to be made for an amount less than
$7,500 but less than $50,000 shall be made pursuant to the following:
            1.   Method for inviting quotes. The purchasing agent shall request
quotes from at least three vendors, unless the purchasing agent is not able
after diligent search to identify three vendors dealing in the product to be
purchased, in which case, the purchasing agent shall request quotes from as
many vendors as may be identified. In the event that a quote request issued to
a particular vendor is not responded to, the purchasing agent shall deem that
vendor to have given a non-responsive quote and shall proceed accordingly,
however, in any such event, the purchasing agent may also request additional
quotes.
            2.   Means of communication. Solicitations requesting quotes may be
transmitted by way of tele-facsimile, mail or email or by such other means as
the Purchasing Agent may deem appropriate. Solicitations shall indicate where
quotes should be delivered to and shall provide the day and time by which
quotes must be received for consideration. Quotes must be received in writing.
            3.   Process for selection. The purchasing agent shall submit the
quotes to the Board. The Board shall accept the quote submitted by the most
responsive and responsible bidder. If the Board determines that the lowest
bidder is not the most responsive and responsible bidder, the Board shall state
its reasoning and the same shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting. The
Board may reject all quotes.
            4.   After selection. The purchasing agent shall promptly notify
the successful bidder and conclude the purchase.
         (f)   Purchase of at least $50,000 but less than $150,000. A purchase
that a purchasing agent reasonably expects to be made for an amount of at least
$50,000 but less than $150,000 must receive prior approval of the Board and
shall be made pursuant to the following:
            1.   Method for inviting bids. After receiving approval from the
Board, the purchasing agent shall transmit a solicitation inviting bids to at
least three vendors, unless the purchasing agent is not able after diligent
search to identify three vendors dealing in the product to be purchased, in
which case, the purchasing agent shall transmit solicitations to as many
vendors as may be identified. In the event that a solicitation transmitted to a
particular vendor is not responded to, the purchasing agent shall deem that
vendor to have given a non-responsive bid and shall proceed accordingly,
however, in any such event, the purchasing agent may also request additional
bids.
            2.   Means of communication. Solicitations requesting bids shall be
transmitted by mail. In addition to transmission by mail, the purchasing agent
may transmit copies by way of tele-facsimile or e-mail or by such other means
as the purchasing agent may deem appropriate. Solicitations shall indicate that
bids must be delivered to the office of the Howard County Auditor in an
envelope appropriately labeled and sealed and shall provide the day and time by
which bids must be received for consideration. Bids must be received in
writing.
            3.   Process for selection. Bids shall be opened at a public
meeting of the Board and the Board shall accept the bid submitted by the most
responsive and responsible bidder. If the Board determines that the lowest
bidder is not the most responsive and responsible bidder, the Board shall state
its reasoning and the same shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting. The
Board may reject all quotes.
            4.   After selection. The purchasing agent shall promptly notify
the successful bidder and conclude the purchase.
      (4)   Competitive bidding.
         (a)   Applicability. This section shall apply to those purchases that
a purchasing agent reasonably expects to be made for an amount of $150,000 or
greater. Purchases may not be artificially divided so as to constitute a small
purchase; however, should a purchasing agent wish to do so, the competitive
bidding procedures set forth hereunder may be used instead of the procedures
described in division (C)(3) (small purchases) for completing small purchases.
         (b)   Applicable statutes. This section is written in conformity with
I.C. 5-22-7 (Competitive Bidding) and should be interpreted and applied in a
fashion consistent therewith, including any revisions or amendments thereto. In
the event that a conflict should arise between this policy and I.C. 5-22-7,
I.C. 5-22-7 shall be treated as the controlling authority.
         (c)   Method for inviting bids.
            1.   After receiving approval from the Board, the purchasing agent
shall issue an invitation for bids.
            2.   The invitation for bids must include the following:
               a.   A purchase description.
               b.   All contractual terms and conditions that apply to the
purchase.
               c.   A statement of the evaluation criteria that will be used,
including any of the following: (A) inspection; (B) testing; (C) quality; (D)
workmanship; (E) delivery; and/or (F) suitability for a particular purpose;
along with a statement (per the requirement imposed under I.C. 5-22-3-5) that
an offer submitted by a trust must identify all of the following: (1) each
beneficiary of the trust and (2) each settlor empowered to revoke or modify the
trust
               d.   The time and place for opening the bids.
               e.   A statement concerning whether the bid must be accompanied
by a certified check or other evidence of financial responsibility that may be
imposed in accordance with rules or policies of the governmental body.
               f.   A statement concerning the conditions under which a bid may
be canceled or rejected in whole or in part.
         (d)   Evaluation criteria and bid evaluation. Evaluation criteria that
will affect the bid price and that will be considered in the evaluation for an
award must be objectively measurable. Only criteria specified in the invitation
for bids may be used in bid evaluation.
         (e)   Notice of invitation for bids. The purchasing agency shall give
notice of the invitation for bids in the manner required by I.C. 5-3-1. The
purchasing agency may also provide electronic access to the notice.
         (f)   Public opening of bids. Bids shall be opened at a public meeting
of the Board that is held at the time and place designated in the invitation
for bids and in the presence of one or more witnesses.
         (g)   Bids; acceptance; evaluation. Bids must be unconditionally
accepted without alteration or correction, except as provided in division (k)
below (Prohibition of changes after bid opening), division (l) (Proposed
additions to contract), and division (m) (Acceptance of proposed additions to
contract; permitted changes to requirements of invitation for bids), and must
be evaluated based on the requirements provided in the invitation for bids.
         (h)   Awarding of contract. A contract must be awarded with reasonable
promptness by written notice to the lowest responsible and responsive bidder.
         (i)   Maintenance of information by purchasing agency. The purchasing
agency shall maintain the following information (which information shall be
subject to public inspection after each contract award):
            1.   The name of each bidder;
            2.   The amount of each bid; and
            3.   Any other information required by I.C. 5-22 (Public
Purchasing) and/or rules adopted thereunder.
         (j)   Correction or withdrawal and cancellation due to mistake. The
Board may allow the correction or withdrawal of an inadvertently erroneous bid
before or after award. The Board may allow cancellation of an award or contract
that is based on an inadvertently erroneous bid. A decision by the Board to
allow correction, withdrawal, or cancellation shall be supported by a written
determination by the Board.
         (k)   Prohibition of changes after bid opening. Changes in bid price
or in any other provision of bids that would be prejudicial to the interest of
the county or fair competition are prohibited after bid opening.
         (l)   Proposed additions to contract. If a bidder inserts contract
terms or bids on items not specified in the invitation for bids, the Board
shall treat the additional material as a proposal for addition to the contract
and may do any of the following:
            1.   Declare the bidder nonresponsive.
            2.   Permit the bidder to withdraw the proposed additions to the
contract in order to meet the requirements and criteria provided in the
invitation for bids.
            3.   Accept any of the proposed additions to the contract; however,
the Board may not accept proposed additions to the contract that are
prejudicial to the interest of the county or fair competition and a decision of
the Board to permit a change to the requirements of the invitation for bids
must be supported by a written determination by the Board.
         (m)   Acceptance of proposed additions to contract; permitted changes
to requirements of invitation for bids. The Board may not accept proposed
additions to the contract that are prejudicial to the interest of the county or
fair competition. A decision of the Board to permit a change to the
requirements of the invitation for bids must be supported by a written
determination by the Board.
      (5)   Request for proposals.
         (a)   Applicability. The applicability of this section shall not be
dependent upon purchase amount. This section shall apply in those instances
where the purchasing agent believes that the procedures involving the use of
competitive sealed bids are not practical or are not advantageous to the county
in the particular instance.
         (b)   Applicable statutes. This section is written in conformity with
I.C. 5-22-9 (Request for Proposals) and should be interpreted and applied in a
fashion consistent therewith, including any revisions or amendments thereto.
         (c)   Request for proposals; contents. After receiving approval from
the Board, the purchasing agent shall solicit proposals through a request for
proposals, which must include the following:
            1.   The factors or criteria that will be used in evaluating the
proposals.
            2.   A statement concerning the relative importance of price and
the other evaluation factors.
            3.   A statement concerning whether the proposal must be
accompanied by a certified check or other evidence of financial responsibility,
which may be imposed in accordance with rules of the governmental body.
            4.   A statement concerning whether discussions may be conducted
with responsible offerors, who submit proposals determined to be reasonably
susceptible of being selected for award.
         (d)   Public notice of request for proposals. The purchasing agency
shall give public notice of the request for proposals in the manner required by
I.C. 5-3-1. The purchasing agency may also provide electronic access to the
notice.
         (e)   Opening of proposals. Proposals must be opened so as to avoid
disclosure of contents to competing offerors during the process of negotiation.
         (f)   Register of proposals; contents. A register of proposals must be
prepared and open for public inspection after contract award. The register of
proposals must contain the following:
            1.   A copy of the request for proposals.
            2.   A list of all persons to whom copies of the request for
proposals were given.
            3.   A list of all proposals received, which must include all of
the following:
               a.   The names and addresses of all offerors.
               b.   The dollar amount of each offer.
               c.   The name of the successful offeror and the dollar amount of
that offeror's offer.
            4.   The basis on which the award was made.
            5.   The entire contents of the contract file except for
proprietary information included with an offer, such as trade secrets,
manufacturing processes, and financial information that was not required to be
made available for public inspection by the terms of the request for proposals.
         (g)   Responsible offerors; discussions; final offers. As provided in
the request for proposals or under the rules or policies of the governmental
body, discussions may be conducted with, and best and final offers obtained
from, responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be reasonably
susceptible of being selected for award.
         (h)   Award. Award shall be made by the Board to the responsible
offeror whose proposal is determined in writing to be the most advantageous to
the county, taking into consideration price and the other evaluation factors
set forth in the request for proposals. If provided in the request for
proposals, award may be made to more than one offeror whose proposals are
determined in writing to be advantageous to the county, taking into
consideration price and other evaluation factors set forth in the request for
proposals.
         (i)   Fair and equal treatment of offerors. Offerors must be accorded
fair and equal treatment with respect to any opportunity for discussion and
revisions of proposals. In conducting discussions with an offeror, information
derived from proposals submitted by competing offerors may be used in
discussion only if the identity of the offeror providing the information is not
disclosed to others. The purchasing agency must provide equivalent information
to all offerors with which the purchasing agency chooses to have discussions.
         (j)   Evaluation; factors and criteria. The only factors or criteria
that may be used in the evaluation of proposals are those specified in the
request for proposals.
      (6)   Special purchasing methods.
         a.   Applicability. The applicability of this section shall not be
dependent upon purchase amount. This section shall apply to special purchases
as set forth below.
         b.   Applicable statutes. This section is written in conformity with
I.C. 5-22-10 (Special Purchasing Methods) and should be interpreted and applied
in a fashion consistent therewith, including any revisions or amendments
thereto.
         c.   In general. A special purchase must be made with such competition
as is practicable under the circumstances. A purchasing agent shall maintain
the contract records for special purchases in a separate file. A purchasing
agent shall include in the contract file a written determination of the basis
for the special purchase and me selection of a particular contractor.
Notwithstanding any other law, the purchasing agent shall maintain a record
listing all contracts made pursuant to a special purchase for a minimum of five
years. The record must contain the following information:
            1.   Each contractor's name.
            2.   The amount and type of each contract.
            3.   A description of the supplies purchased under each contract.
         Note that the contract records for a special purchase are subject to
audit by the State Board of Accounts.
         (d)   Emergency conditions. The Board or a purchasing agent that has
been authorized by the Board may make a special purchase when there exists,
under emergency conditions, a threat to public health, welfare, or safety.
         (e)   Savings to governmental body. The Board or a purchasing agent
that has been authorized by the Board may make a special purchase when there
exists a unique opportunity to obtain supplies or services at a substantial
savings to the county.
         (f)   Auctions. The Board or a purchasing agent that has been
authorized by the Board may make a special purchase at an auction.
         (g)   Data processing contract or license agreements. The Board or a
purchasing agent that has been authorized by the Board may make a special
purchase of data processing contracts or license agreements for:
            1.   Software programs; or
            2.   Supplies or services, when only one source meets the using
agency's reasonable requirements.
         (h)   Compatibility of equipment, accessories, or replacement parts.
The Board or a purchasing agent that has been authorized by the Board may make
a special purchase when:
            1.   The compatibility of equipment, accessories, or replacement
parts is a substantial consideration in the purchase; and
            2.   Only one source meets the using agency's reasonable
requirements.
         (i)   Purchasing method impairs functioning of agency. The Board or a
purchasing agent that has been authorized by the Board may make a special
purchase when purchase of the required supplies or services under another
purchasing method under I.C. 5-22(Public Purchasing) would seriously impair the
functioning of the using agency.
         (j)   No offer received under other purchasing method. The Board or a
purchasing agent that has been authorized by the Board may make a special
purchase when the purchasing agency has solicited for a purchase under another
purchasing method described in I.C. 5-22 (Public Purchasing) and has not
received a responsive offer.
         (k)   Evaluation of supplies or system containing supplies. The Board
or a purchasing agent that has been authorized by the Board may make a special
purchase for the evaluation of supplies or a system containing supplies for any
of the following reasons:
            1.   To obtain:
               a.   Functional information; or
               b.   Comparative data.
            2.   For a purpose that in the judgment of the purchasing agent may
advance the long-term competitive position of the county.
         (l)   Governmental discount available. The Board or a purchasing agent
that has been authorized by the Board may make a special purchase when the
market structure is based on price but the county is able to receive a dollar
or percentage discount of the established price.
         (m)   Single source for supply; award of contract. Subject to division
(n) below, (General Services Administration Price) and division (o) below
(Purchase From Person Who Has Contract With Federal Agency), a purchasing agent
may award a contract for a supply when there is only one source for the supply
and the purchasing agent determines in writing that there is only one source
for the supply.
         (n)   General services administration price. The Board or a purchasing
agent that has been authorized by the Board may make a special purchase from a
person when the Board or the purchasing agent determines in writing that:
            1.   Supplies can be purchased from the person or the person's
authorized representative at prices equal to or less than the prices stipulated
in current federal supply service schedules established by the federal General
Services Administration; and
            2.   It is advantageous to the county's interest in efficiency and
economy.
         (o)   Purchase from person who has contract with federal agency. The
Board or a purchasing agent that has been authorized by the Board may purchase
supplies if the purchase is made from a person who has a contract with a
federal agency and the person's contract with the federal agency requires the
person to make the supplies available to the state or political subdivisions.
The Board or a purchasing agent that has been authorized by the Board may
purchase supplies if the purchase is made from a person who has a contract with
a state agency and the person's contract with the state requires the person to
make the supplies or services available to political subdivisions, as provided
in I.C. 4-13-1.6 or I.C. 5-22-17-9.
         (p)   Acquisition of supplies through transfer from federal
government.
            1.   The Board or a purchasing agent that has been authorized by
the Board may acquire supplies if the Board or the purchasing agent determines
that the county can obtain the transfer of the supplies from the federal
government under I.C. 4-13-1.7 at a cost less than would be obtained from
purchase of the supplies by soliciting for bids or proposals.
            2.   The county may not make a purchase under this section if title
to the property will be transferred to the county before a sufficient
appropriation to pay the costs of the purchase is appropriated. However, if the
supplies will be transferred to the governmental body upon conditional sale or
under a lease, a lease with option to purchase, or a contract for the use of
the supplies, the county may make the purchase under this section if there are
sufficient funds appropriated to pay the consideration required for one year of
the agreement.
            3.   The Board or a purchasing agent who purchases or leases
surplus federal materials shall, at the time of the purchase or lease, or
immediately thereafter, give public notice in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1.
         (q)   Acquisition of supplies through acceptance of gift. The Board or
a purchasing agent that has been authorized by the Board may acquire supplies
by accepting a gift for the county.
         (r)   Purchase from public utility following independent appraisal.
The Board or a purchasing agent that has been authorized by the Board may make
a special purchase from a public utility if the purchase or lease price is a
negotiated price that considers the results of an independent appraisal that
the Board or the purchasing agency obtains and an independent appraisal that
the public utility obtains.
(Ord. 2019 BCCO-28, passed 9-16-19)
§ 36.20 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE UNDER THE ADA.
   (A)   This grievance procedure is established to meet the requirements of
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 ("ADA"). It may be used by anyone
who wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of
disability in the provision of services, activities, programs, or benefits by
Howard County, Indiana.
   (B)   The complaint should be in writing and contain information about the
alleged discrimination such as name, address, phone number or complainant and
location, date and description of the problem. Alternative means of filing
complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint,
will be made available for persons with disabilities upon request.
   (C)   The complaint should be submitted by the complainant and/or his
designee as soon as possible but no later than 60 calendar days after the
alleged violation to:
      Amber Tolle
      Howard County Highway Engineer
      625 S. Berkley Road
      Kokomo, IN 46901
      (Hereinafter referred to as the "Coordinator")
   (D)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, Coordinator or
her designee will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and the
possible resolutions. Within 15 days of the meeting, Coordinator or her
designee will respond in writing, and where appropriate, in a format accessible
to the complainant, such as large print, Braille, or audio tape. The response
will explain the position of Howard County and offer options for substantive
resolution of the complaint.
   (E)   If the response by the Coordinator or her designee does not
satisfactorily resolve the issue, the complainant and/or his/her designee may
appeal the decision within 15 calendar days after receipt of the response to
the President of the Howard County Board of Commissioners, 220 N. Main Street,
Kokomo, IN 46901 ("President").
   (F)   Within 15 days after receipt of the appeal, the President or his
designee will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and possible
resolutions. Within 15 calendar days after the meeting, the President or his
designee will respond in writing and, where appropriate, in a format accessible
to the complainant, with a final resolution of the complaint.
   (G)   All written complaints received by Coordinator or her designee,
appeals to the President or his designee, and responses from these two offices
will be retained by Howard County for at least three years.
(Res. 2023-BCCR-8, passed 6-5-23)
§ 36.21 JUROR PARKING.
   (A)   Jurors who are provided with a juror parking permit by a Howard County
court may park in parking spaces on the street around or near the courthouse so
long as the juror parking permit is visibly displayed either on the vehicle’s
dashboard or rear- view mirror;
   (B)   Parking must otherwise be legal, i.e. not in front of a fire hydrant
or in an otherwise designated non-parking space or zone;
   (C)   The juror parking permit shall expire when the court matter for which
an individual serves as a juror is finished; and
   (D)   Upon completion of the court matter, all parking permits shall be
returned immediately to the court from which the permit was issued.
(Res. 2023-BCCR-11, passed 8-7-23)
§ 36.22 CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Declaration of policy.
      (1)   The proper operation of democratic government requires that:
         (a)   Elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents be
independent, impartial, and responsible to the people;
         (b)   Governmental decisions and policy be made in proper channels of
the government structure;
         (c)   Public office is not to be used for personal gain; and
         (d)   The public has confidence in the integrity of its government.
      (2)   In recognition of these goals, this Conflict of Interest Policy is
hereby established. The purpose is to establish guidelines for ethical
standards of conduct for all such public elected and appointed officials,
employees, and agents by setting forth those acts that are incompatible with
the best interests of Howard County.
   (B)   Coverage. All elected officials, appointed officials, employees, and
agents of Howard County shall be subject to and shall abide by this policy.
   (C)   Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in
this policy, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      AGENT. All persons who are not county officials or employees that are
authorized by the county to act for or in place of the county in the conduct,
management, or administration of a particular project, contract(s) or endeavor.
      APPOINTED OFFICIAL. All persons appointed to any county board or
commission.
      BUSINESS ENTITY. Any business, proprietorship, firm, partnership, person
in representative or fiduciary capacity, association, venture, trust, or
corporation which is organized for financial gain or for profit.
      CONTRACT. A legal instrument by which the county purchases property or
services needed to carry out a program or project under federal award.
      COVERED INDIVIDUAL. An elected official, appointed official, employee, or
agent of the county.
      COVERED NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION. A nonprofit corporation, organization, or
association, incorporated or otherwise, that is organized or operating in the
State of Indiana primarily for religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
public health and safety, or educational purposes, excluding any board, entity,
or other organization created by the State of Indiana or the county.
      DIRECT BENEFIT. A public officer or employee of the county, or the spouse
of such officer or employee:
         (a)   Having a 10% ownership interest or other interest in a contract
or subaward;
         (b)   Deriving any income or commission directly from a contract or
subaward; or
         (c)   Acquiring property under a contract or subaward.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. The members of the Howard County Board of
Commissioners, and all other county officials elected to office.
      EMPLOYEE. All full-time and part-time persons employed by the county,
including contracted and appointed positions.
      FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE. Federal financial assistance that the
county receives or administers in the form of grants, cooperative agreements,
non-cash contributions or donations of property (including donated surplus
property), direct appropriations, food commodities, and other federal financial
assistance (except that the term does not include loans, loan guarantees,
interest subsidies, or insurance).
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY.
         (a)   Applicable to contracts, subawards, grants, and other
transactions under Indiana Law: The spouse and all children of the covered
individual.
         (b)   Applicable to federal contracts, subawards, and grants:
            1.   A spouse, and parents thereof;
            2.   A child, and parent thereof;
            3.   A parent, and spouse thereof;
            4.   A sibling, and spouse thereof;
            5.   A grandparent and grandchild, and spouses thereof;
            6.   Domestic partners and parents thereof, including domestic
partners of any individual in divisions 2. through 5. of this definition; and
            7.   Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close
association with the covered individual is the equivalent of a family
relationship.
      INTEREST. Direct or indirect pecuniary or material benefit accruing to a
covered individual as a result of a contract, subaward, or transaction which is
or may be the subject of an official act or action by or with the county. For
the purpose of this section, a covered individual shall be deemed to have an
interest as follows:
         (a)   For state contracts, subawards, grants and other transactions:
any person in his/her immediate family; for federal contracts, subawards,
grants, or transactions: a related party;
         (b)   Any business entity in which he/she is an officer or director;
         (c)   Any business entity in which an excess of 10% of the stock of,
or legal or beneficial ownership of, is controlled or owned directly or
indirectly by them; or
         (d)   A covered nonprofit organization on which they currently serve
as an officer, director, or board member.
      OFFICIAL ACT or ACTION. Any legislative, administrative, appointive, or
discretionary act of a covered individual.
      PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A non-federal entity that provides a subaward to a
subrecipient to carry out part of a federal program.
      RELATED PARTY.
         (a)   An immediate family member of a covered individual;
         (b)   A partner of a covered individual; or
         (c)   A current or potential employer (other than the county) of a
covered individual, of a partner of a covered individual, or of an immediate
family member of a covered individual.
      SUBAWARD. An award provided by a pass-through entity to carry out part of
a federal award received by the pass-through entity. This does not include
payments to a contractor or payments to an individual that is a beneficiary of
a federal program.
      SUBRECIPIENT. An entity that receives a subaward from a pass-through
entity to carry out part of a federal award; but does not include an individual
that is a beneficiary of such award. A subrecipient may also be a recipient of
other federal awards directly from a federal awarding agency.
   (D)   Policy.
      (1)   Interest in contract, agreement, or subaward. No covered individual
shall have or thereafter acquire an interest in any contract, agreement, or
subaward with the county. Additionally, no covered individual shall participate
directly or indirectly in the selection, award, or administration of a
contract, agreement, or subaward if he/she has a real or apparent conflict of
interest.
         (a)   Real conflict of interest.
            1.   For state contracts, agreements, or subawards. A real conflict
of interest shall exist when a covered individual or immediate family member
has a financial or other interest in or tangible personal benefit from a firm
considered for a contract, agreement, or subaward.
            2.   For federal contracts, agreements, or subawards. A real
conflict of interest shall exist when a covered individual or related party has
a financial or other interest in or tangible personal benefit from a firm
considered for a contract, agreement, or subaward.
         (b)   Apparent conflict of interest.
            1.   For state contracts, agreements, or subawards. An apparent
conflict of interest shall exist where a real conflict of interest may not
exist, but where a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts would
find that an existing situation or relationship creates the appearance that a
covered individual or immediate family member has a financial or other interest
in or a tangible personal benefit from a firm considered for a contract,
agreement, or subaward.
            2.   For federal contracts, agreements, or subawards. An apparent
conflict of interest shall exist where a real conflict of interest may not
exist, but where a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts would
find that an existing situation or relationship creates the appearance that a
covered individual or any related party has a financial or other interest in or
a tangible personal benefit from a firm considered for a contract, agreement,
or subaward.
      (2)   Use of official position. No covered individual shall use his/her
official position or the county's facilities for his/her private gain, nor
shall he/she appear before or represent any private person, group, or interest
before any department, agency, commission, or board of the county except in
matters of purely civic or public concern. This division is not intended to
prohibit speaking before neighborhood groups and other nonprofit organizations.
No covered individual shall participate in the selection or in the award or
administration of a contract if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would
be involved. Such a conflict would arise when the covered individual, a member
of his/her immediate family, his/her partner, or an organization which employs,
or is about to employ, any of the above individuals, as a financial or other
interest in the firm selected for award.
      (3)   Disclosure of information. No covered individual shall use or
disclose confidential information gained in the course of or by reason of his/
her official position for purposes of advancing:
         (a)   His/her financial or personal interest;
         (b)   A business entity of which he/she is an owner in part or in
whole, an officer, or director; or
         (c)   The financial or personal interest of a member or his/her
immediate family or that of any other person.
      (4)   Incompatible service. No covered individual shall engage in or
accept private employment or render service for private interest, when such
employment or service is incompatible with the proper discharge of his/her
official duties or would tend to impair his/her independence of judgment or
action in the performance of his/her official duties, nor shall any covered
individual serve on any county board except where expressly required by statute
and provided disclosure is made as provided in this section.
      (5)   Gifts. No covered individual shall directly or indirectly solicit,
accept, or receive any gift, favor, reward, service, or promise of award
whether in the form of money, cash equivalents (instruments readily convertible
into cash such as money, orders, and checks), gift cards, gift certificates,
pre-paid credit cards, services, loans, travel, entertainment, hospitality, or
things or promises, including a promise of future employment, under
circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that the gift, favor,
reward, service, or promise of award was intended to influence him/her, or
could reasonably be expected to influence him/her, in the performance of his/
her official duties, or was intended as a reward for any official action on
his/her part. Legitimate political contributions, advertising items or
souvenirs of nominal value, honoraria for participating in meetings, and meals
at banquets shall not be considered as gifts, favors, or rewards under this
policy.
      (6)   Special treatment. No covered individual shall grant any special
consideration, treatment, or advantage to any citizen beyond that which is
available to every other citizen.
      (7)   Disclosure of interest in official act or action. Any member of the
Howard County Board of Commissioners or member of an appointed board or
commission who has an interest in any official act or action before the Board
of Commissioners or an appointed board or commission shall publicly disclose on
the record the nature and extent of such interest and shall not vote on the
matter if excused by the Board of Commissioners or appointed board or
commission. The question of the compensation and allowance of members of the
Board of Commissioners is not a matter involving a member's own financial
interest or official conduct. However, a member of the Board of Commissioners
or a member of an appointed board or commission shall not participate or vote
regardless of whether the member is excused in the following circumstances:
         (a)   If the matter involves a legislative land use matter (such as a
rezoning or text amendment) where the outcome of the matter is reasonably
likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily personal financial impact;
         (b)   If the matter involves a quasi-judicial function (such as the
issuance of a special use permit or an appeal of a personnel decision) and the
member has a financial interest in the outcome;
         (c)   If the matter involves a contract from which the member derives
a direct benefit.
      (8)   Oversight of subrecipient's conflict of interest standards. Prior
to the county's execution of any subaward for which the county serves as a
pass-through entity, the employee(s) responsible for the management of the
subaward shall ensure that the proposed subrecipient of federal financial
assistance has adopted a conflict of interest policy that satisfies the
requirements of 2 C.F.R. § 200.318(c), 2 C.F.R. § 200.318(c)(2), and all other
applicable federal regulations. Any contract or agreement with the subrecipient
shall require the subrecipient to disclose any real or apparent conflicts of
interest to the county, which shall then be reported to the federal awarding
agency that funded the subaward in accordance with that agency's disclosure
policy.
      (9)   Reporting violations. The county requests and strongly urges
employees to report any violations or possible or perceived violations of this
policy to their department head, Human Resources, or the County Manager's
office. The county shall not discharge, demote, or otherwise discriminate
against any employee in reprisal for disclosing information that an employee
reasonably believes is evidence of any violations or possible or perceived
violations of this policy.
      (10)   Discipline for violations. The county will investigate and respond
to all reports of violations or perceived violations of this policy. Violation
of this policy may result in disciplinary action, up to and including
termination, removal from an appointed board or commission, or a motion or
resolution of censure. The county shall terminate any contract or agreement
with any subcontractor found to be in violation of this policy.
(Res. 2023 BCCR-13, passed 8-7-23)
§ 36.23 LOCAL PREFERENCE PURCHASING POLICY.
   (A)   Policy statement. 
      (1)   Howard County is a political subdivision of the State of Indiana
and is governed by the state's public purchasing statutes, including, but not
limited to, the "Public Purchasing Law" found at I.C. 5-22-1 et seq., and
"Public Works Project" found at I.C. 36-1-12 et seq., as amended from time to
time. In addition to the applicable Indiana statutes, the county's purchasing
activities are governed by local ordinances and resolutions adopted by the
Howard County Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-22-5-20.9, Howard County is authorized to apply
a local business price preference. A price preference allows a local business
to be able to compete for the county's business while taking into consideration
the fact that a business competing for the county's business is a local
business. If a competing business claims a price preference, a given percentage
will be deducted from the price of the item(s) that meet the criteria for the
preference, and the newly calculated prices will be used for evaluation
purposes to determine whose bid should be awarded.
   (B)   Definitions.
      LOCAL INDIANA BUSINESS. Refers to any of the following:
         (a)   A business whose principal place of business is located in
Howard County;
         (b)   A business that pays a majority of its payroll (in dollar
volume) to residents of Howard County;
         (c)   A business that employs residents of Howard County as a majority
of its employees.
   (C)   The following price preferences apply for contracts awarded by Howard
County to any local Indiana businesses:
      (1)   Five percent (5%) for a purchase expected by the purchasing agency
to be less than $50,000;
      (2)   Three percent (3%) for a purchase expected by the purchasing agency
to be at least $50,000 but less than $100,000;
      (3)   One percent (1%) for a purchase expected by the purchasing agency
to be at least $100,000 and above.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the above local business preference, Howard County may
award a contract to the lowest responsive and responsible offeror, regardless
of the preference provided, if the lowest responsive and responsible offeror is
a local Indiana business.
   (E)   A business that wants to claim a preference provided under this
section must do all of the following:
      (1)   State in the business's bid that the business claims the preference
provided by this section.
      (2)   Provide the following information to the purchasing agency:
         (a)   The location of the business's principal place of business. If
the business claims the preference as a local Indiana business described in
division (B), a statement explaining the reasons the business considers the
location named as the business's principal place of business.
         (b)   The amount of the business's total payroll and the amount of the
business's payroll paid to residents of affected counties.
         (c)   The number of the business's employees and the number of the
business's employees who are residents of affected counties.
(Res. 2023 BCCR-20, passed 9-18-23)
§ 36.24 INFORMATION RESOURCES USE AGREEMENT (IRUA).
   (A)   Information resources are provided by the county to support the
business of local government. The term "information resources" includes all
county hardware, software, data, information, network, computing devices,
phones, and other information technology. To use information resources, you
agree to adhere to the provisions of this agreement which are established to
ensure security and inform of the conditions of use.
   (B)   The current required IRUA for signing as laid out in Ord. 2020-BCCO-1,
as may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this code as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 2020-BCCO-1, passed 1-6-20)
§ 36.25 SECURITY AWARENESS TRAINING POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. This document establishes the Information Security Awareness
Training Policy for Howard County. This policy ensures security awareness and
training controls that protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability
of the county's information resources.
   (B)   Scope. This policy applies to all county employees and elected
officials who access county information resources.
   (C)   Policy. The Information Systems Department, on behalf of the county,
shall define and ensure the implementation of an information security awareness
training program to increase users' awareness of their information security
responsibilities in protecting the confidentiality, integrity, and availability
of county information resources.
      (1)   Initial training. Initial security awareness training must be
completed within 30 days of date of hire, or effective start date.
      (2)   Refresher training. Security awareness refresher training must be
completed annually, within 60 days of the anniversary of the previous instance
of such training.
   (D)   Compliance. The Information Systems Department shall initiate
mechanisms for tracking compliance with this policy, as well as mechanisms to
measure application of training.
      (1)   Monthly phishing assessment. The Information Systems Department
shall deliver a random phishing message to all county email addresses to assess
the level of email security and click discipline.
      (2)   Recourse for noncompliance. The Information Systems Department is
authorized to limit network access for individuals or units not in compliance
with information security policies and related procedures. In cases of
noncompliance with this policy, the county may apply appropriate employee
sanctions or administrative actions, in accordance with relevant administrative
and employment policies.
         (a)   Phishing assessment failures. A phishing assessment failure is
defined as clicking a link, opening an attachment, or replying to the monthly
phishing assessment email message from the Information Systems Department.
Failures are calculated yearly.
            1.   First offense. Individual shall be assigned remedial training
to be completed within 30 days of failure.
            2.   Second offense. Individual shall be assigned remedial training
to be completed within 30 days of failure. A follow-up consultation shall be
done with the individual and the Information Systems Director to address issue
of non-compliance.
            3.   Third offense. Individual shall be assigned remedial training
to be completed within 30 days of failure. A follow-up consultation shall also
be done with the individual, the individual's manager, and the Information
Systems Director to address issue of noncompliance.
            4.   Fourth offense (and subsequent failures). Individual shall
have external email access removed immediately. A follow-up consultation shall
be done to determine appropriate administrative actions and how to address
issue of non-compliance.
(Ord. 2020-BCCO-1, passed 1-6-20)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
      
51.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
53.   ILLICIT DISCHARGES
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Solid Waste Management District Designated
   
50.02   Dumping of solid wastes prohibited
Nuisance Solid Waste Accumulation, Illegal Dumping and Littering
   
50.10   Title
   
50.11   Purpose
   
50.12   Definitions
   
50.13   Acts prohibited
   
50.14   Investigation and enforcement authority
   
50.15   Abatement notice
   
50.16   When abatement notice is not required
   
50.17   Hearings
   
50.18   Compliance with abatement notice
   
50.19   Failure to comply with abatement notice
   
50.20   Abatement by district
   
50.21   Severability
   
50.22   Administrative rules and policies
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Hazardous material spills: emergency action, clean-up and reimbursement, see
§
92.01
   Health Department service fees established, see §§
92.15 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The county is hereby designated as a county solid waste management
district pursuant to the terms and within the meaning of I.C. 13-21-3.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 13-21-3-2, the Howard County Solid Waste Management
District includes all of the incorporated and unincorporated territory in the
county.
(BCC Ord. 1990-36, passed 8-27-90)
§ 50.02 DUMPING OF SOLID WASTES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to define dumping, control the
dumping of solid waste materials, and provide for the clean-up of an penalties
for prohibited dumping.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLEAN-UP COSTS. Include all costs incurred by Howard County in cleaning
up solid waste dumped in violation of this Ordinance, including landfill fees
and time expended by Howard County officials in effecting such clean up.
      DUMPING or DUMP. The depositing or disposal, or the attempted depositing
or disposal, of solid waste upon land.
      PERSON. Any person, corporation, trust, organization, partnership,
association or other legal entity.
      SOLID WASTE. Garbage, used household goods, appliances, motor vehicles
and motor vehicle parts, tires, trash, garbage, bags of trash or garbage,
construction or demolition materials, and all other items commonly disposed of
in sanitary landfills, including all items and materials defined in I.C. 13-7-
1-22 as “solid waste.” The term shall not include manures or crop residues
returned to the soil at the point of generation as fertilizers or soil
conditioners as a part of a total farm operation.
   (C)   Prohibitions. No person shall dump, cause or allow dumping at any
location in the county unless such location shall be a licensed sanitary
landfill site.
   (D)   Clean-up and removal.
      (1)   Anyone having knowledge of an dumping at any location in the county
shall provide such information to any county law enforcement officer, the
County Highway Department or the County Board of Health, who shall then
investigate, with the assistance of such other county officials which are
deemed necessary, to determine if a violation of division (C) has occurred.
      (2)   Upon determining the identity of any person violating division (C),
the Board of County Commissioners, the County Highway Department, the County
Board of Health or the County Solid Waste District, by any of its designated
officers or employees, shall issue an order directed to the violator so
identified to remove and clean-up such solid waste within a period of ten days
after receipt of such order. Failing compliance with such order, the Board of
County Commissioners, the County Highway Department, the County Board of
Health, or the County Solid Waste District may in their sole discretion clean
up the solid waste, utilizing such resources as are required, and all clean-up
costs shall be chargeable to the violator; provided, however, in the event that
the dumping presents a clear and immediate hazard to public health or safety,
the Board of County Commissioners, the County Highway Department, the County
Board of Health, or the County Solid Waste District may proceed to clean up the
solid waste without notice to the violator and thereafter charge the clean up
expenses to the violator.
      (3)   In the event that a person violating division (C) does not pay
clean-up costs after reasonable notice, the Board of County Commissioners, for
and on behalf of the county, shall be entitled to recover such clean-up costs
by action in the Howard Circuit or Superior Courts; provided, however, the
total of such costs shall not exceed the sum of $2,500 per violation. In
addition, the Board of County Commissioners shall also be entitled to seek
injunctive or other similar relief through the Howard Circuit or Superior
Courts to obtain orders requiring persons violating division (C) to clean up a
dumping area and prohibiting further or future dumping.
      (4)   In the event that more than one person is involved in an incident
of dumping, it shall be the joint and several responsibility of each such
person for the clean-up of the site and the clean-up costs.
   (E)   Penalties. In addition to the responsibility for clean-up costs as
provided in division (D) any person who violates division (C) of this section
shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
50.99.
   (F)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced under and in accordance
with the provisions of I.C. 34-4-32-1 et seq.
(BCC Ord. 1993-24, passed 6-28-93) Penalty, see §
50.99
NUISANCE SOLID WASTE ACCUMULATION, ILLEGAL DUMPING AND LITTERING
§ 50.10 TITLE.
   This chapter is titled, “Howard County Nuisance Solid Waste Accumulation,
Illegal Dumping and Littering Chapter.”
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.11 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit illegal clumping, nuisance solid
waste accumulation and littering along roadways, and on public and private
property in the county. This chapter establishes the County Recycling District
as the entity that investigates, files reports and enforces this chapter in
conjunction with the County Recycling District's Board of Directors.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this
chapter.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any, machinery, equipment, watercraft or trailer that has
remained on private or public property without the consent of the owner or
person in control of that property for more than 48 hours and is mechanically
inoperable. Also, any vehicle, machinery, equipment, watercraft or trailer that
is mechanically inoperable and continuously in a location visible from public
property or public right-of-way, or visible from the immediate vicinity of
private residences or businesses for more than 20 days.
   ABATE. To end or eliminate nuisance solid waste accumulation, illegal
dumping, littering, or any other violation of this chapter by removal, clean-up
and proper disposal.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION WASTE.  Any discarded construction or demolition
materials, including but not limited to, lumber, wood, paneling, drywall,
roofing material, siding, plumbing, electrical wiring, doors, windows,
furniture, floor coverings, fixtures and cabinets.
   CONTAMINATED. Un-rinsed containers with food or product residues, non-
container glass materials, materials with contained oils, pesticides,
fertilizers, herbicides, poisons, or other hazardous materials, materials
fouled with dirt or other substances foreign to their original contents or
composition, wet or saturated newspapers, and any other condition which renders
the materials un- recyclable.
   DISCARD. To abandon, deposit, desert, discharge, dispose, drop, dump,
eliminate, emit, leave, pitch, place, put, scrap, spill, leak, throw, or toss
any item of solid waste or derivative thereof, or any inherent waste-like
material in a manner such that the discarded substance remains upon the land as
solid waste.
   DUMPING/TO DUMP. The discarding of any items of solid waste commonly known
as garbage, rubbish, refuse, construction and demolition debris, household
trash, baby diapers, food wastes, appliances, tires, scrap metal, vehicles or
parts, and all other items and materials defined as “solid waste” below.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Compliance Officer of the County Recycling
District or some other person specifically designated by the Director of the
County Recycling District, including but not limited to, a police officer, a
sheriff’s officer, a conservation officer, an appropriate representative of a
state or local governmental department, or other “sworn” enforcement officer.
   FILL MATERIAL. Any material that is used for fill, such as soil, clay,
shale, gravel, sand or concrete.
   GARBAGE. Any animal solid, vegetable solid, and semi-solid wastes from the
processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving, or consumption of food or
food materials.
   GENERATE. The act or process of producing solid waste. GENERATOR means the
person whose actions or processes result in unwanted solid waste materials.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste, including but not limited to, household
hazardous wastes, used automotive fluids or parts, solvents and chemicals that,
because of their quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to an increase in
mortality or increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible
illness, or pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, handled, disposed
of or otherwise mismanaged.
   HOWARD COUNTY RECYCLING DISTRICT.  Includes all of the incorporated and
unincorporated territory in the county.
   INERT SOLID WASTE. Includes but is not limited to, uncontaminated earth,
rocks, rigid concrete, bricks, tiles, aged asphalt, uncontaminated natural
wood, brush, leaves, grass clippings, wood chips, or sawdust.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Any waste that is capable of transmitting a communicable
disease, including but not limited to, pathological waste (human tissues,
blood, excreta and secretions), medical and laboratory wastes, contaminated or
fouled bedding, bandages, dressings, diapers, contaminated animal carcasses,
offal, excreta, body parts.
   JUNK. Any of the following items which are considered abandoned, dismantled,
discarded or otherwise unusable, including but not limited to, vehicles,
machinery, equipment, appliances or other household goods and furniture. The
term shall also include but is not limited to, component parts, such as
engines, transmissions, drive trains, suspension, fenders, doors, hoods,
wheels, windshields and tires removed from vehicles or any other part of a
motor vehicle.
   LITTER. Any man-made or man-used waste, which, if deposited within the
county otherwise than in a proper waste storage container, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety, and welfare or tends to impair the environment
or aesthetic well-being of the community. LITTER shall include, but not be
limited to, garbage, trash, refuse, debris, grass clippings, other lawn or
garden waste, paper products, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers, or
other waste material of an unsightly, unsanitary, nauseous or offensive nature.
Littering may also include any item of waste material moved by wind, water or
animals or any other combination of these items.
   MECHANICALLY INOPERABLE. Any vehicle, machinery, equipment, watercraft or
trailer which is in a condition that prevents it from being driven under its
own power, or not able to be operated in its normal manner.
   NUISANCE. Defined as set out in I.C. 34-1-52-1, to wit: whatever is
injurious to health, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
essentially to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
NUISANCE is any condition or thing existing or allowed to exist that injures or
endangers the comfort, health or safety of others or the environment;
unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to destruct or renders dangerous
for passage on any public or private property, or is likely to depreciate the
value of other's property.
   OF RECORD. Recorded in the records of the County Recorder, or in the records
of the County Auditor.
   OPEN DUMP. The consolidation of solid waste from one or more sources or the
discarding of solid waste at any location that does not fulfill the
requirements of a sanitary landfill, transfer station or other facility as
prescribed by state law or regulations, and that exists without daily cover and
without regard to the possibilities of contamination of surface or subsurface
water resources, air, land or other hazard or threat of hazard to the
environment or safety.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm., company, corporation, trust,
estate, legal representative or agent.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property, including, but not limited to, vacant land
or any land upon which is located one or more buildings or other structures
designated or used for residential, commercial, business, industrial,
institutional, or religious purposes, together with any yard, grounds, walks,
driveways, fences, porches, or other structures or improvements appurtenant to
the land, except any public place.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Shall include but is not limited to, any and all streets and
roads, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, alleys, or other public ways, any and all
public parks, lakes, waterways, spaces, publicly owned rights-of-way, grounds,
or buildings within the incorporated and unincorporated territory in the county
pursuant to I.C. 13-21-3, except those areas excluded by each eligible entity
as defined in an adopted ordinance related to this chapter.
   RECYCLABLES. Materials segregated from the waste stream for the purpose of
collection and reprocessing to recover and reuse as a material resource. This
shall include, but is not limited to, glass containers, newspapers, office
papers, corrugated cardboard, aluminum, steel containers and certain plastic
containers.
   SALVAGING. The controlled removal of reusable or recyclable waste material.
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled and unauthorized removal of solid waste
materials or recyclables at any point in the waste management system.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge, or other discarded or disposed
materials, including but not limited to, solid, liquid, or semi-solid or
contained gaseous materials resulting from any operation, activity, or source.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a present possessor
interest, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser, or a lease.
   WASTE STORAGE. Proper temporary containment of waste materials in a waste
storage container for a period not to exceed ten days or the standard interval
of local commercial collection service, whichever is less.
   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINER. A proper and suitable receptacle used for the
temporary storage of solid waste, infectious or hazardous wastes while awaiting
collection or proper disposal.
   VECTOR. Any animal, insect, substance or any other solid waste object of
transfer capable of harboring and/or transmitting micro-organisms and/or
insects or disease from one animal to another or to a human.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.13 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No owner, occupant, tenant, or any person having a substantial
property interest in any real or personal property within the County Recycling
District, shall maintain, create, cause, place, deposit, leave, or permit a
nuisance to remain on such property, or upon any public place abutting such
real estate or personal property.
   (B)   The following acts shall constitute a violation of this chapter:
      (1)   No person shall discard or dump litter, abandoned vehicles, junk,
recyclables, garbage, construction/demolition waste, hazardous waste,
infectious waste, inert solid waste along any public roadway or near any public
or private river, lake, stream or ditch or on his or her property or the
property of another person.
      (2)   No person shall conduct any activity on public or private land
which results in the accumulation of litter, abandoned motor vehicles, junk,
recyclables, garbage, fill materials, construction/demolition waste, hazardous
waste, infectious, inert solid waste, or solid waste so as to interfere with
the public health, safety, peace and the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property.
      (3)   No person owning real property shall cause or consent to final
disposal upon said property of solid waste materials (other than inert solid
waste or fill material) that is generated by said person or by any other
person, unless otherwise licensed or permitted as a disposal facility by the
State of Indiana.
      (4)   No person shall litter, nor permit any dependent minor or other
person for whom he or she is legally responsible to litter, nor cause another
person to litter.
      (5)   No person shall discard any materials, other than recyclables, at
any facility or in any container intended for collecting recyclables.
      (6)   No person shall deposit any contaminated recyclable materials in or
at any city, county or Recycling District facility or container intended for
collecting recyclable materials.
      (7)   No person shall conduct scavenging of materials at any facility or
in any container intended for collecting recyclable materials.
      (8)   No person, either knowingly or unknowingly, shall contract with
another party to engage in any acts prohibited by divisions (B)(1) through (7)
of this section. A violation of this provision shall be an offense of the same
degree for the waste generator as the violation committed by the hired
contractor.
      (9)   No person shall store, accumulate or allow to remain on any private
property, any abandoned vehicles, automobile parts, disassembled automobiles,
automobiles without engines, plumbing and piping materials and parts, scrap
metal, un- seaworthy or dilapidated boats, dilapidated, deteriorated, or non-
operable jet skis, snowmobiles, bicycles, trailers, mopeds or junk, unless
properly approved.
      (10)   No person shall store, accumulate or allow to remain on any
private property appliances, household items and tires outside of any
structure.
      (11)   No person shall have any waste water, filth, offal, garbage,
rubbish, animal waste, human excrement, which is deposited, allowed or caused
to be upon any public or private property, other than for the purpose of
approved forms of composting.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.14 INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Compliance Officer, or other specifically designated enforcement
authority, shall have the right to enter onto any public or private property,
excluding structures within the jurisdictional coverage of this chapter for the
purpose of performing any duties imposed by the provisions of this resolution.
The Compliance Officer is hereby authorized to issue warnings, citations, and
abatement notices under this chapter.
   (A)   Upon receipt of any complaint, report, or personal sighting of an
alleged violation of this chapter, the Compliance Officer shall conduct an
investigation of such complaint, report or personal sighting.
   (B)   In the event that the Compliance Officer determines that there is not
a violation of this chapter, but has reason to believe that the activity may
constitute a violation of regulations enforced by other agencies, the
Compliance Officer(s) or designee(s) may forward a copy of the report of
investigation to another state, county or city agency for further review and
investigation.
   (C)   Items contained in waste materials or recyclable materials, which bear
information such as names and addresses, shall be considered as evidence for
identifying the owner or generator of the discarded materials and shall
constitute rebuttal and be evidence that the person whose name is found therein
has violated this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.15 ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   Where, upon inspection, reasonable cause is found that a violation of this
chapter exists, the Compliance Officer shall issue a written abatement notice.
   (A)   An abatement notice shall be served upon all known holders of
substantial property interests in the real estate upon which the violation is
alleged to exist.
   (B)   The abatement notice under this chapter shall be on a form approved by
the County Recycling District's Board of Directors.
   (C)   The abatement notice issued shall include the name of the person to
whom the order is issued, a legal description or physical address of the
location of the alleged violation, a brief description of the nature of the
alleged violation together with the provision of the chapter alleged to have
been violated, the date and time when the report was observed, occurred or was
filed, the name of the person issuing the warning, the date the warning was
issued, the action the notice requires and potential fines for noncompliance.
   (D)   The action that the abatement notice requires must be reasonably
related to abatement of the conditions constituting the violation.
   (E)   The period of time within which the action ordered is required to be
accomplished, measured from the time when the abatement notice is served. The
time allowed must allow a sufficient time, of at least 48 hours from the time
the abatement notice is served, to accomplish the required action. If the
notice allows more than 30 days to accomplish the action, the notice may
require that a substantial beginning be made in accomplishing the action within
the initial 30-day period following service of the notice.
   (F)   A statement that the order becomes final ten calendar days after
notice is served, unless a hearing is requested in writing by the owner of
record, the tenant or occupant, or by a person holding a substantial property
interest in the private premises upon which the nuisance is alleged to exist.
The request for a hearing must be served upon the enforcement authority prior
to the expiration of the aforementioned ten calendar day period.
   (G)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the County
Recycling District or enforcement authority if there is noncompliance with the
orders contained in the abatement notice.
   (H)   The name, business address, and business telephone number of the
enforcement authority.
   (I)   Service of abatement notices shall be made by any of the following
means:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail to the
residence or place of business or employment of the person to be notified, with
return receipt requested.
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the notice personally to the person to be
notified.
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the notice at the dwelling or usual place of
abode of the person to be notified.
      (4)   Posting a copy of the notice in a prominent place upon the premises
where the nuisance is located.
      (5)   If, after a reasonable effort, service cannot be obtained by any of
the means described in divisions (I)(1) through (4), service may be made by
publishing the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in
which the property subject to the notice is located. Publication shall be made
one time.
   (J)   The date when notice is considered given is:
      (1)   The date left at the dwelling, date of personal service or date
signed by certified mail.
      (2)   Notice by publication is considered given on the date of
publication.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.16 WHEN ABATEMENT NOTICE IS NOT REQUIRED.
   Where, in the opinion of the enforcement authority, a nuisance exists which
creates a substantial and imminent health or safety hazard requiring immediate
abatement in order to protect health and safety, the enforcement authority,
upon prior approval by the Director or County Recycling District's Board of
Directors, shall abate the nuisance without the necessity of issuing an
abatement notice.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.17 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Hearings.
      (1)   Any owner, tenant or occupant, or person holding a substantial
property interest in private premises upon which a nuisance is alleged to exist
who disputes the existence of a nuisance, or disputes the nature of the
abatement action ordered in the abatement notice, may, within ten calendar days
of service of the abatement notice, serve upon the enforcement authority a
written request for a hearing. The written request does not need to be in any
particular form, but shall clearly indicate that a hearing is requested, and
shall set out the nature of the individual's disagreement with the content of
the abatement notice.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the written request for a hearing, the enforcement
authority shall place the matter on the agenda of the County Recycling
District's Board of Directors for hearing. The County Recycling District's
Board of Directors shall function as hearing body to adjudicate the matter.
      (3)   The Compliance Officer or designee shall give written notice to the
party requesting the hearing of the date and time of the hearing. Such notice
shall be given no less than five calendar days prior to the date set for
hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, which may be adjourned from time to time, it shall
be the Compliance Officer's burden to go forward with evidence sufficient to
demonstrate that a nuisance exists, and that the actions required are
reasonably calculated to abate the nuisance within a reasonable period of time.
The party requesting the hearing shall have the right to dispute the existence
of the nuisance, the reasonableness of the remedy, or the reasonableness of the
time allowed to remedial action. The party requesting the hearing may propose
alternative remedies or time periods for remedial action, or alternate
remediation plans.
      (5)   All such hearings shall be open to the public pursuant to Indiana
statutes on open meetings.
      (6)   Upon conclusion of the presentation of evidence and oral argument,
if any, the County Recycling District's Board of Directors shall deliberate and
render a decision either confirming, amending or rescinding the disputed
content of the abatement notice.
      (7)   All time parameters set out in the abatement notice for completion
of compliance actions shall be tolled, pending the outcome of the County
Recycling District's Board of Directors decision. In cases where the actions of
the enforcement authority are upheld, or are upheld as modified by the Board of
Directors, it shall be the responsibility of the Board of Directors, in its
decision, to establish time periods for completion of compliance activities
held in abeyance during the hearing process.
   (B)   Appeal. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9(e), a person who received a penalty
under this chapter may appeal the order imposing the penalty to a court of
record in Howard County no later than 60 days after the day on which the order
is entered.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.18 COMPLIANCE WITH ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   No additional fines shall be imposed once the abatement order has been
satisfactorily complied with.
(BCC Ord. 2008-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.19 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   Failure to comply with the orders set out in the abatement notice within the
time periods set out therein, or within any extended time periods agreed to by
the Compliance Officer, shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall
render the individual upon whom the abatement notice was served liable to a
fine as set forth by the County Recycling District's Board of Directors. Each
day's failure, neglect or refusal to abate the nuisance during the time period
allowed for compliance shall constitute a separate offense under this chapter.
The record owner of the premises upon which the nuisance is found to exist,
shall be held liable for the payment of fines assessed under this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.20 ABATEMENT BY DISTRICT.
   In addition to fines imposed under this chapter, in non-emergency situations
where abatement is not accomplished immediately by the county, failure,
neglect, or refusal of any party to abate a violation as required by the
abatement notice shall authorize the enforcement authority to obtain the
permission of the District Director or County Recycling District's Board of
Directors to abate the violation as set out in the abatement notice. Where such
permission is sought, the Compliance Officer or designee shall file a copy of
the abatement notice with the County Recorder to give constructive notice to
subsequent purchasers that the real estate is subject to the costs associated
with the abatement. Abatement may be accomplished by crews designated by the
District if the work is within its capacity to accomplish, or the District may
request quotes and award the job to the lowest responsible and responsive
contractor. An accurate accounting shall be kept of all costs incurred in
abating the nuisance. Upon completion of the abatement, a statement for costs
incurred shall be forwarded to the record owner by certified mail. Should such
costs remain unpaid 30 calendar days after receipt by the owner of record, or
upon return of the certified mail as undeliverable, appropriate legal action
may be taken to compel payment of costs incurred. Any judgment for costs
obtained shall be filed as a judgment lien against the real estate upon which
the violation was abated.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.21 SEVERABILITY.
   Each section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase of this chapter is
declared to be an independent section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase
and the finding or holding of any section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause shall not
affect any other section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase or part
hereof. The County Recycling District may modify this chapter as deemed
necessary.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.22 ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND POLICIES.
   The County Recycling District may establish written rules and policies, not
inconsistent herewith to carry out the provisions thereof.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §
50.02 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500 per violation; provided,
that the total of any fines imposed under this division (A) and any clean-up
costs imposed under §
50.02 shall not collectively exceed the sum of $2,500 per violation.
(BCC Ord. 1993-24, passed 6-28-93)
   (B)   (1)   In addition to any other costs imposed under this chapter, any
person who is found to have violated this chapter, or willfully or negligently
failed to comply with any provision of this chapter or with any orders issued
hereunder, shall be fined not less than $100, and no more than $2,500 for each
offense. Each day a violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a
separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   Citations for violations of this chapter may be issued by the
Enforcement Authority. The Uniform Traffic Citation may be utilized for the
purpose of evidencing violation of this chapter. Enforcement shall be in effect
by die filing of a civil suit seeking judgment in the amount of the fine
imposed, plus court costs.
      (3)   All expenses including fines and abatement costs incurred by the
County Recycling District in enforcing this chapter or adopted ordinances by
eligible entities related to this chapter shall become a lien on property owned
by the person or persons as afforded by I.C. 36-1-6-2. The lien shall be placed
and recorded on the property tax duplicated and collected from the owner as
taxes are collected.
      (4)   A clean-up fund is hereby established in the operating budget of
the County Recycling District. This fund shall be established for the purpose
of accounting and paying for the costs of investigating, enforcing and cleaning
up properties in violation of this chapter.
      (5)   In matters involving a health and/or vector hazard, the County
Recycling District Director, Compliance Officer(s) or designees may conduct
investigation and enforcement according to laws governing public health under
the Director's supervision. The Director of the County Recycling District may
designate some other person as the enforcement authority to conduct
investigation and enforcement according to laws governing public health as
needed.
         (a)   The County Recycling District's Board of Directors shall be
empowered to order the abatement of nuisance solid waste accumulation, illegal
dumping, and littering and to issue orders and fines as designated.
         (b)   Any person or persons identified violating this chapter, shall
be subject to the following schedule for abatement: The Compliance Officer(s)
or designee(s) shall notify the person of an alleged violation. Depending upon
the extent of the violation, the notice will state that violation abatement
must occur within a reasonable length of time between ten days and 60 days from
the date of notice. If abatement does not occur within the stated length of
time, the County Recycling District Director reserves the right to abate the
nuisance through the use of private contractors or the public work force.
      (6)   If a small amount of trash, litter or recycling is found on public
land, designated county employees or other agents may search the material for
identification evidence and then properly dispose or recycle the material.
Evidence will be forwarded to the Enforcement Authority for further action.
      (7)   The owner of property on which improper disposal acts have occurred
may be included as a party of an enforcement action against a person who
committed the violation for the purposes of obtaining access to the land to
clean up and properly dispose of the wastes.
      (8)   Either abatement of the violation or a request for appeal must be
filed with the County Recycling District's Board of Directors within the time
frame designated in the notice for the identified person or property owner to
dispute tines, an order to appear, or other legal action.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-21, passed 6-16-08)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Title and purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Licensing of installers; revocation of license
   
51.04   Permits required; refusal or revocation of permits
   
51.05   Fee schedule
   
51.06   Connection to public or enclosed sanitary sewer system
   
51.07   Abandonment of existing private sewage system
   
51.08   Conflict of ordinances
On-Site Sewage Regulations
   
51.20   Incorporation by reference
   
51.21   Definitions
   
51.22   Licensing of installers
   
51.23   OSS permit requirements and plan submittal
   
51.24   On-site sewage system permit
   
51.25   OSS operating permit
   
51.26   Connection to existing system
   
51.27   OSS inspection
   
51.28   Violation
   
51.29   Procedure for appeal
   
51.30   Remedies
   
51.31   Fee schedule
   
51.32   Conflict of ordinances
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision sewer, water and drainage regulations, see §§
152.63 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter regulates the location, installation, construction,
maintenance and replacement of all residential sewage disposal systems in the
county, provides for the administration and enforcement of the provisions
contained herein, and fixes penalties for violation.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Howard County
Residential Sewage Ordinance.”
   (C)   The general purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health,
safety and welfare and to further the following related and specific
objectives.
      (1)   To preserve and improve the environmental quality of the county.
      (2)   To minimize contamination of ground and surface water resources.
      (3)   To control the utilization of private sewage disposal systems based
on the limitations of the soils for such use as determined by a soil profile
analysis based on the criteria set forth by the Soil Conservation Service.
   (D)   The requirements found in rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 are hereby
incorporated by reference into this chapter and shall include any later
amendments to those regulations the same are published in the Indiana
Administrative Code with the effective dates as fixed herein.
(BCC Ord. 1993-34, passed 11-1-93)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABS. Acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene.
   APPROVED SEPTIC SYSTEM. A permitted septic system installed in accordance
with state regulation and county ordinance which has been inspected and signed
by the Health Officer or his or her designee.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BARRIER MATERIAL. A geotextile fabric with an effective opening size no
smaller than 0.20 millimeters and no larger than 0.85 millimeters.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Howard County Board of Health.
   COUNTY. Howard County, Indiana.
   DISTRIBUTION BOX. A structure designed to distribute effluent by gravity
from a septic tank equally into the pipes of an absorption system connected
thereto.
   DOSING TANK. A concrete tank used in series behind a septic tank used to
store liquids in amounts equivalent to the amount to be handled by the
absorption field. The dosing chamber is served by a properly sized pump which
will “dose” the effluent to the absorption field.
   DRAINAGEWAY. The channel portion of the landscape in which surface water or
rainwater runoff gathers intermittently to flow to a lower elevation.
   DWELLING. Any house or place used or intended to be used as a place of
seasonal or permanent human habitation or for sleeping for one or two families.
   FILL. Soil transported and deposited by man as well as soil recently
transported and deposited by natural erosion forces. Fill is evidenced by one
or more of the following:
      (1)   No soil horizons or indistinct soil horizons.
      (2)   Depositional stratification.
      (3)   Presence of a soil horizon which has been covered.
      (4)   Materials in a horizon such as cinders or construction debris.
      (5)   Position in the landscape.
   FOUNDATION DRAIN. That portion of a residential drainage system provided to
drain only ground water from outside of the foundation of the house or from
under the basement floor.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Howard County Health Officer, his or her assistant, or
his or her designees, having responsibility for the enforcement of this
chapter.
   LIMITING LAYER. Any soil horizon with a loading rate less than 0.25 gallons
per day per square foot, or greater than 0.75 gallons per day per square foot.
   LOADING RATE. The allowable rate of application of septic tank effluent to
the soil. It is expressed in gallons per day per square foot.
   NEW SEPTIC SYSTEM. Any system proposed for new dwelling construction.
   OWNER. The owner of a dwelling or his or her agent.
   PERSON. The term includes any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm,
company, corpora- tion, association, trust, estate or any other legal entity,
including but not limited to its or their successors or assigns or agents.
   PVC. Polyvinyl chloride.
   REPAIR. The term includes any alteration, addition or replacement of any
portion of an existing septic system.
   RESIDENTIAL DRAIN. The horizontal piping in a house drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and drainage pipes inside the walls of
the house and conveys the same to the residential sewer.
   RESIDENTIAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. All equipment and devices necessary for
proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment and on-site disposal of
sewage from a one or two family dwelling. Included within but not limited to
the scope of this definition are residential sewers, septic tanks, soil
absorption systems, temporary sewage holding tanks and sanitary vault privies.
   RESIDENTIAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM FAILURE. A residential sewage disposal
system which exhibits one or more of the following, and is therefore considered
a health hazard:
      (1)   The system refuses to accept sewage at the rate of design
application, thereby interfering with the normal use of residential plumbing
fixtures.
      (2)   Effluent discharge exceeds the absorptive capacity of the soil,
resulting in ponding, seepage or other discharge of the effluent to the ground
surface or surface waters.
      (3)   Effluent is discharged from the system causing contamination of a
potable water supply, ground water or surface waters.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer or system of sewers which convey sewage away from
the lot on which it originates to a waste water treatment facility owned and
operated by an incorporated city or town, conservancy district, regional sewer
district or private utility.
   SDR. Means standard dimension ratio.
   SEPTIC TANK. A water-tight structure into which sewage is discharged for
settling and solids digestion.
   SEWAGE. All water-carried waste derived from ordinary living processes.
   SLOPING SITE. Any portion of the proposed area designated for the septic
system with greater than a 2% slope.
   SLUDGE. The digested or partially digested solid material accumulated in a
septic tank.
   SOIL ABSORPTION. A process which utilizes the soil to treat and dispose of
effluent from a septic tank.
   SOIL ABSORPTION SYSTEM. Pipes laid level in a system of trenches or elevated
beds into which the effluent from the septic tank is discharged for soil
absorption. The term may also be referred to as residential septic system,
residential sewage disposal system, absorption system or leach field
   SOIL HORIZON. A layer of soil or soil material approximately parallel to the
land surface and differing from adjacent genetically related layers in
physical, chemical and biological properties or characteristics such as color,
structure, texture, consistency, kinds and numbers of organisms present, and
degree of acidity or alkalinity.
   SOIL MAPPING SYMBOLS. Those symbols used by the Soil Conservation Service in
mapping the soil series in the county based on the limitations of the soil
described as “slight, moderate, and severe.”
   SOIL PROFILE ANALYSIS. The observation and evaluation of the physical
characteristics of the soil horizons or layers to a depth of at least five feet
or, if shallower, to a layer which cannot be readily penetrated.
   SOIL SCIENTIST. A registered professional in the field of soil science
holding a baccalaureate degree with a major in agronomy, soils or a closely
related field of science who is proficient in the application of the principles
of pedology to soil classification, investigation, education and consultation
and on the effect of measured, observed and inferred soil properties and their
use.
   UNSANITARY CONDITION. Any condition that may transmit, generate or promote
disease.
   WATER TABLE and SEASONAL HIGH WATER TABLE. Means the upper surface of the
ground water or that level below which the soil is saturated with water.
(BCC Ord. 1993-34, passed 11-1-93)
§ 51.03 LICENSING OF INSTALLERS; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Licensing of installers.
      (1)   A person engaged in the installation of private soil absorption
systems shall file an application with the Board of Health. The application
shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance issued by a company
registered in the state evidencing the existence of a liability policy
sufficient to indemnify persons for whom work is performed if faulty. The
policy shall have such coverages and policy limits as may be set from time to
time by the Board of Health. The Board of Health shall be the beneficiary of
such policy.
      (2)   The applicant must complete an application, submit to an annual
written examination which will cover the state and local regulations governing
residential soil absorption systems, and must pass said examination prior to
the issuance of an installers license. If the applicant fails to pass the
examination, the applicant must re-apply for an installers license and
examination no earlier than one month following the examination date. An
application fee of $10 must be paid prior to re-examination.
      (3)   Once the criteria in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) are met, the
applicant shall be issued a license and will pay the set fee for such license.
      (4)   Such license shall be valid for one year and shall be non-
transferable. The license shall bear the name and address of the licensee and
the expiration date.
      (5)   The licensee shall maintain in his or her possession a copy of the
license at all times when installing residential soil absorption systems.
   (B)   Revocation of license. The Board of Health shall have the authority to
revoke a license issued under the provisions of division (A) for failure to
observe the standards established by this chapter or upon conviction of a
violation of this chapter.
(BCC Ord. 1993-34, passed 11-1-93) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 PERMITS REQUIRED; REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Residential sewage disposal systems.
      (1)   The owner or agent of the owner shall obtain a written permit,
signed by the Health Officer, for construction of a residential sewage disposal
system prior to:
         (a)   Construction of a residence which will not be connected to a
sanitary sewerage system.
         (b)   Any replacement, reconstruction of, expansion or remodeling of a
residence which may increase the number of bedrooms.
         (c)   Any addition to, alteration of or repair of an existing
residential sewage disposal system.
      (2)   The application for such a permit shall be made on a form provided
by the Health Department and shall contain the following information: soil
profile analysis, lot dimensions, number of bedrooms, location to drainage
outlets and any other information deemed necessary by the Health Officer. Plans
shall be to a suitable scale of one inch equal to ten feet and shall indicate
the location of all existing and proposed buildings, property lines, septic
tank and absorption fields, tile and open drains and wells on the property to
be developed and on those properties immediately adjacent to it. Sufficient
existing and proposed elevations shall be also be provided.
      (3)   If it is determined that the proposed system design does not meet
the minimum requirements of this rule, the permit shall be denied and the owner
shall be notified in writing of the basis for denial, and the notification
shall state the appropriate procedure for registering any such appeal.
      (4)   The permittee shall notify the Health Officer or his or her
designee when the work is ready for final inspection and at least 48 hours or
two working days before any subsurface portions are to be covered. Soil
absorption systems that require more than one inspection due to improper
installation or improper scheduling, and the like, will be required to pay an
additional fee for each additional inspection necessary.
      (5)   The Board of Health, its agent, or the Health Officer or his or her
agent shall be permitted to enter upon all properties at the proper time for
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
necessary to assure compliance with this rule.
      (6)   The installation of the permitted soil absorption system must be
completed to the exact design specifications. No portion of the permitted
design is to be altered without first consulting with the Board of Health. Any
alteration of an approved and permitted soil absorption system design without
the consultation and issuance of an amended permit will result in an unapproved
and non-compliant system. No certificate of occupancy will be granted for any
construction or change of use until such time as the sewage disposal system has
been certified approved.
   (B)   Commercial permit. The owner or agent of the owner shall obtain a
written permit, signed by the Health Officer, for construction of a commercial
sewage disposal system prior to construction of an establishment classified and
rated as a business.
      (1)   The application for such a permit shall be made on a form provided
by the Howard County Health Department specifically for commercial sites.
      (2)   The application shall include a copy of the permit issued from the
State Department of Health, a copy of the soil profile analysis, and a blue
print copy of the design submitted to the State Department of Health. The
information shall include but not be limited to all pertinent information
covered in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Refusal or revocation of permits.
      (1)   If an applicant is refused a permit, the Board of Health shall,
upon request, afford the applicants the opportunity for a fair hearing.
      (2)   The Health Department may revoke a permit which had been issued for
construction of a residential sewage disposal system if it finds that the owner
of the permit has failed to comply with this rule. Upon such notice, the Board
of Health shall upon request afford the applicant the opportunity for a fair
hearing.
(BCC Ord. 1993-34, passed 11-1-93) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fee schedule for this chapter is as follows:
 
Septic Installers License      $100 annual
Septic Permit (residential)  $50
Septic Permit (commercial)     $50
On-Site Evaluation             $25
Additional Septic Inspection   $25*
* Septic inspections for lots are provided in the amount of one per lot, and
are scheduled by the applicant. In the event that the site needs more than one
inspection due to improper planning, non- compliant installation, and the
like, there will be a charge for each additional inspection performed by a
representative of the County Health Department.
 
(BCC Ord. 1993-34, passed 11-1-93)
§ 51.06 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC OR ENCLOSED SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Proposed residential development.
      (1)   Prior to preliminary plat approval, the developer of any proposed
residential development shall be required to evaluate the feasibility of
extending an existing public or enclosed sanitary sewer system. The feasibility
of providing a direct connection shall be projected for the entire project area
and shall be based upon the maximum gross density permitted in the zoning
district in which the development is located. A direct connection shall be
required when the total length of the sanitary sewer lines required from the
existing sanitary sewer system to the nearest property line of the proposed
project is less than 300 feet per lot in the total project, that is 300 feet
times the number of lots in the total project.
      (2)   The County Board of Health will only consider the use of private
individual absorption systems for residential development after the developer
has shown that the use of collection sewers and central treatment is not
feasible.
   (B)   Proposed non-residential development. Prior to approval, the developer
of any proposed non- residential sewage development shall be required to
evaluate the feasibility of extending an existing public or enclosed sanitary
sewer system. A direct connection shall be required based upon the sewage per
day, as set forth hereafter:
 
Sewage Flow Per Day Distance from Public or Enclosed Sewer System
0 - 499             250 feet
500 - 1,499         500 feet
1,500 - 2,999       2,000 feet
3,000 +             5,280 feet for each 3,000 gal.
 
(BCC Ord. 1993-34, passed 11-1-93) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 ABANDONMENT OF EXISTING PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   All abandoned septic tanks shall be removed or filled in with soil or
aggregate in a manner that will eliminate a health and safety hazard. This
includes the disconnection of inlet and outlet lines of a septic tank that is
not removed.
(BCC Ord. 1993-34, passed 11-1-93) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 CONFLICT OF ORDINANCES.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any code of the county existing on the effective date of
this chapter, the provision which establishes the higher standard for the
promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people shall prevail.
In any case where a provision of any other code of the county existing on the
effective date of this chapter which establishes a lower standard for the
promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people, the provisions
are hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that they may be found in
conflict with this chapter.
(BCC Ord. 1993-34, passed 11-1-93)
ON-SITE SEWAGE REGULATIONS
§ 51.20 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The following documents are incorporated by reference as a part of this
subchapter and shall include any later amendments to those regulations as the
same are published in the Indiana Administrative Code with the effective dates
as fixed therein.
   (A)   Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 et seq.
   (B)   Bulletin SE 11, the Sanitary Vault Privy, 1986 Edition.
   (C)   Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-10 et seq. Commercial On-Site Wastewater Disposal
   (D)   I.C. 16-41-25-3.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.21 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to or to otherwise supplement those definitions contained in 410
I.A.C. 6-8.1-1 et seq. which is incorporated herein by reference, this
subchapter shall include the following definitions:
   BEDROOM. A room within a dwelling that might reasonably and regularly be
used as a sleeping room or which contains a closet or shares a common hallway
with or adjoins a bathroom.
   HEALTH OFFICER. A medical doctor serving as the executive officer for the
County Health Department and secretary for the County Board of Health.
   INSTALLER. Any person engaged in the construction and installation of
residential or commercial on-site sewage disposal systems in the county.
   INSTALLER LICENSE. A certificate issued to a person, for hire, who meets all
the prerequisites for installing on-site sewage systems in the county.
   IOWPA. Indiana Onsite Wastewater Professional's Association.
   ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM(S) (OSS). All equipment and devices necessary for
proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment, and on-site disposal of
sewage from a residence or commercial facility.
   OUTLET FILTER. Devices designed to restrict solid matter from leaving the
septic tank and to enhance the quality of effluent.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.22 LICENSING OF INSTALLERS.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the installation of an on-site sewage system
shall obtain an installer license from the County Health Department, Division
of Environmental Health.
      (1)   The person must complete an application (homeowner exception see
division (B)(4) of this section).
      (2)   Submit to a written examination given by the County Health
Department, which will cover state and local regulations governing OSS, and
receive a score of 70% or greater. A person who has participated in IOWPA's
training and testing and successfully passed their certification test will not
be required to submit to a written examination given by the County Health
Department.
      (3)   If the person fails to pass the examination, the person may re-
apply for an installer's license and examination no earlier than one month
following the examination date. A $20 re-examination fee must be paid prior to
reexamination.
      (4)   The person must submit a certificate of insurance to the Health
Department.
   (B)   Once the criteria in divisions (A)(1) through (4) above are met, the
applicant shall pay set fee for such license.
      (1)   Installer's license will be issued and shall be renewed within 30
days of expiration.
      (2)   Such license shall be valid for one year, and is non-transferable.
The license shall bear the name and address of the company, the name of the
licensee, and the expiration date.
      (3)   The licensed installer shall be present at the site during
construction of the OSS and maintain in his or her possession a copy of the
license.
      (4)   A homeowner that wishes to install an OSS on his or her property is
exempt from license fees and insurance requirements. The homeowner must submit
to an examination, which will cover state and local regulations of OSS. Any
installation conducted by a homeowner shall not be for real estate development,
or any other commercial interests.
   (C)   An installer's license, issued under this subchapter, may be revoked
or suspended by the County Board of Health. Upon a fair hearing, if the
licensee should fail to show cause, the Board may revoke the license and
promptly give written notice of the action to the licensee. The Health Officer
shall maintain a permanent record of the proceedings filed in the office of the
Health Department. If the Board determines the license shall be revoked or
suspended, the licensee shall be forbidden to install, repair, or otherwise
work on OSS in the county for the time period fixed by the County Board of
Health.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.23 OSS PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PLAN SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   The following requirements must be met before the issuance of a permit
for an OSS.
      (1)   A completed application.
      (2)   A written site evaluation report, performed by a soil scientist,
containing soil absorption field site characteristics, a soil profile report,
soil profile characteristics, and a fixed object from which the boring
locations will be measured.
      (3)   A plat plan that includes:
         (a)   Legal description of the property.
         (b)   Property boundaries.
         (c)   Easements.
         (d)   Required setbacks.
      (4)   An OSS plan that includes but not limited to:
         (a)   A drawing of the OSS site to scale.
         (b)   Property boundaries.
         (c)   Footprint of all structures (existing and proposed).
         (d)   Utility services.
         (e)   Existing and proposed sewer outlets and OSS components.
         (f)   Setbacks and separation distances required herein.
         (g)   Identification of all existing and proposed private water supply
wells within 100 feet of the OSS and 200 feet from any public water supply
wells.
         (h)   Within the proposed soil absorption field site, all trees and
shrubs that may affect the construction of the soil absorption field.
         (I)   Location of all soil sample sites measured from a fixed
reference point.
         (j)   All topographic features affecting the soil absorption field,
including:
            1.   Position (upland, terrace, or floodplain).
            2.   Percent slope, slope shape, and slope aspect.
            3.   Surface drainage characteristics, including:
               a.   Location of all lakes, ponds, reservoirs, rivers, streams,
ditches, or swales.
               b.   Location of all surface topography where surface runoff may
collect or pond,
         (k)   Type of vegetative cover at the site.
         (l)   One hundred-year flood elevations as determined by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) and identification of all portions of
the property at and below the 100-year flood elevation.
      (5)   Detailed plan view of the OSS soil absorption field.
      (6)   Detailed plan view of the OSS surface and subsurface drainage
system.
      (7)   Detailed cross-section of a typical trench of the OSS soil
absorption field, to scale.
      (8)   Invert elevations of all piping, including all inlet and outlet
piping to distribution boxes and tanks; elevations of original grade at the
ends of each trench in the soil absorption field(s).
      (9)   The County Health Department may require any OSS to be designed by
a registered professional engineer when deemed necessary.
   (B)   All septic tanks installed in the county must contain outlet filters
and filter alarms.
      (1)   Use, sizing, installation, and service of outlet filters must be in
accordance with manufacturer's recommendations. Outlet filters must be designed
to handle the design daily flow (DDF) of the OSS.
      (2)   Outlet filters must be maintained by the owner or agent of the
owner and must remain in service for the life of the septic tank.
      (3)   The outlet filter must be placed in the last septic tank for septic
tanks placed in series.
      (4)   The filter alarm must be accom panied by a laminated instruction
sheet that shall be mounted near the alarm signal, detailing actions the
property owner should take should the alarm be activated. This instruction
sheet should also provide the suggested maintenance schedule for the filter.
      (5)   Outlet filters must be placed to allow accessibility for routine
maintenance without entering the tank.
      (6)   Service should be performed as required and shall be performed each
time the septic tank is pumped.
   (C)   All perimeter drains installed in the county must meet the following
criteria:
      (1)   For trench OSS, the subsurface perimeter drain must be two inches
into a soil horizon with a loading rate less than .25 gallons per day per
square foot, or 36 inches deeper than the deepest trench bottom if a soil with
a loading rate of less than .25 gallons per day per square foot is not present.
Other means that are found to lower the water table at least 24 inches below
trench bottom are also acceptable.
      (2)   For sand mound OSS, the subsurface perimeter drain must be two
inches into a soil horizon with a loading rate less than .25 gallons per day
per square foot or 32 inches deeper than the original ground surface.
      (3)   The subsurface drain tile shall be at least six inches in diameter.
      (4)   If an existing perimeter drain is available which services adjacent
properties which are of the same soil type, elevation and surface grade, the
existing perimeter drain may be used, providing that the adjacent properties
have not experienced any OSS problems related to the perimeter drain in the
past five years.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.24 ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM PERMIT.
   (A)   The owner or agent of the owner shall obtain a written permit, from
the County Health Department, signed by the Health Officer, for the
construction of a residential or commercial OSS prior to the following:
      (1)   The start of construction or the placement of a residence or
building that will not be connected to a publicly or privately-owned wastewater
treatment plant at the time of initial occupancy.
      (2)   The start of any construction, installation, replacement,
alteration or repair of any part of an OSS.
      (3)   The start of construction of any replacement, reconstruction, or
expansion of a residence which may increase the number of bedrooms.
      (4)   The owner shall obtain all necessary federal, state, and local
permits and approvals before construction begins on an OSS.
   (C)   Any proposed changes, alterations or additions to an OSS plan
submittal for which a permit has already been issued shall be approved by the
Health Department prior to the implementation of the changes.
   (D)   The Health Department shall issue, or deny in writing, to the owner an
OSS permit as soon a possible but within 45 days of receipt of a complete
application and complete plan submittal.
   (E)   An OSS permit shall expire upon compliance of the OSS installation, or
within three years of the issue date, whichever comes first. This permit may be
renewed prior to expiration for one additional three- year period. Provided,
however, the renewal permit shall expire within one year of the effective date
of change of the state's rules regarding OSS, unless the expiration date of the
locally issued permit comes first, at which time the permit shall expire.
   (F)   The owner or agent shall request an inspection by the Health
Department after the OSS is completed and before any portion of the OSS is
covered. The Health Department shall have until the end of the second business
day (4:00 p.m. local time) after the request to respond before any portion of
the OSS is covered. If the Health Department has not responded within that
time, the owner or agent may begin covering the OSS.
   (G)   The Health Department may modify or revoke a permit which it has
issued. The reasons for modification or revocation include, but not limited to,
any of the following:
      (1)   The soil absorption field site has been disturbed or altered after
collection of information for the written site evaluation report. Disturbance
or alteration of the site includes, but is not limited to the following:
         (a)   The addition of fill.
         (b)   The cutting, scraping, or removal of soil.
         (c)   The compaction of the site.
      (2)   False information has been submitted to obtain the permit.
      (3)   Information submitted in the written site evaluation report, plat
plan, or OSS plan is found to be erroneous.
      (4)   Errors or omissions are discovered after the permit has been
issued.
      (5)   The OSS does not comply with the requirements of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1-
1 et seq. and all of the provisions of this subchapter, or conditions of the
permit.
      (6)   The owner or agent of the owner failed to notify the Health
Department at least seven days prior to construction of a commercial facility
OSS.
      (7)   The owner or agent of the owner failed to request an inspection by
the Health Department at least two working days before any portion of the OSS
was covered.
   (H)   If a permit is revoked or modified, the owner shall be advised in
writing of the basis for the modification or revocation, the right for appeal,
and the deadline for appeal.
   (I)   If a permit has been revoked, the following shall occur for a new
permit to be issued:
      (1)   The owner shall provide, as necessary, a revised site evaluation,
and a revised plat plan and OSS plan.
      (2)   The proposed OSS shall comply with the requirements of 410 I.A.C.
6-8.1-1 et seq. and all of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   If a permit is revoked, construction may not proceed on the OSS
until a new permit is issued.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.25 OSS OPERATING PERMIT.
   (A)   The owner may be required to obtain a written operating permit, signed
by the Health Officer, for use, inspection, and maintenance of an OSS.
   (B)   An operating permit requiring scheduled inspection and maintenance
shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the service company
contracted to perform inspection and maintenance.
      (2)   A copy of the inspection and maintenance contract, or reference to
a standard inspection and maintenance contract having a unique reference number
for each owner. Where a standard inspection and maintenance contract is used, a
copy of the standard contract must be submitted, by the service company, to the
department or local health department, whichever has authority.
      (3)   Reference to operation and maintenance document or documents used
for scheduled inspection and maintenance, with a unique reference number for
each document. A copy of each inspection and maintenance document must be
submitted, by the service company, to the department or local health
department, whichever has authority.
   (C)   An operating permit shall identify all components of an OSS requiring
inspection and maintenance.
   (D)   An operating permit issued by the department or local health
department, whichever has authority, shall be renewed:
      (1)   At least biennially for OSS having components requiring scheduled
inspection and maintenance; and
      (2)   At least once every five years for OSS not having components
requiring scheduled inspection and maintenance.
   (E)   The owner, or service company contracted to perform inspection and
maintenance, shall provide the department, whichever has authority, with the
following:
      (1)   Written documentation of all scheduled inspection and maintenance
within one month of the date the scheduled inspection and maintenance was
performed.
      (2)   For all unscheduled maintenance, the owner, or service company
contracted to perform unscheduled maintenance, shall provide:
         (a)   Notification, by telephone or electronic mail, within 48 hours
after performing unscheduled maintenance.
         (b)   Written documentation of all unscheduled maintenance within one
month of the date the unscheduled maintenance was performed.
   (F)   If inspection of an OSS reveals that any of its components must be
repaired or replaced, the owner, or the owner's agent, must comply with the
requirements of §
51.23.
   (G)   If the owner fails to comply with this section, after notice of
violation and said time limit, the owner may be held to §
51.99, Penalty.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.26 CONNECTION TO EXISTING SYSTEM.
   Connection to an existing onsite sewage system shall be permitted if the
following conditions are met.
   (A)   The connection will not exceed the daily design flow for the OSS.
   (B)   The existing system has not met the definition of an “OSS failure”.
   (C)   The existing system has been permitted and approved for use by the
Health Department, and the applicant has possession of a record of the
permitted and approved system, which shows all system dimensions.
   (D)   If the existing system should fail, there is sufficient space for
system replacement.
   (E)   In the event that a system enlargement is proposed, the enlargement
must bring the existing system into compliance with the minimum standards of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.27 OSS INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Health Officer or the officer's designee may enter upon and
inspect private property, at proper times and after due notice, to evaluate
compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   The Health Officer or designee shall inspect each OSS for which a
permit is required under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The permit shall be signed in-compliance prior to the utilization of
the OSS.
   (D)   Persons violating this section may be subject to §
51.99, penalty.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.28 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating this subchapter may be served by the
Health Officer or his or her designee with a written order stating the nature
of the violation and providing a time limit for satisfactory correction
thereof.
   (B)   After receiving an order in writing from the Health Officer or his or
her designee, the owner of the property shall comply with the provisions of
this subchapter as set forth in said order and within the time limit specified
therein. Said order shall be served on the owner or the agent of the owner, but
may be served on any person who, by contract with the owner, has assumed the
duty of complying with the provisions of an order.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.29 PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL.
   (A)   The County Board of Health shall hear appeals incidental to the
issuance and revocation of OSS permits, and installers’ license if, within 15
days following the date of receipt of an issued OSS permit, OSS permit
modification, notice of OSS permit denial, notice of OSS permit revocation or
notice of issued and revocation of installer licenses, any person aggrieved by
such action files a petition for review concerning such action with the County
Board of Health.
   (B)   A petition for review shall state:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person making the
request;
      (2)   Identify the interests of the petitioner which is affected by the
OSS permit issuance, denial, modification, or revocation;
      (3)   Identify any persons whom the petitioner represents;
      (4)   State with particularity the reasons for the request;
      (5)   State with particularity the issues proposed to be considered;
      (6)   Include proposed terms or conditions which, in the judgment of the
petitioner, would be appropriate to carry out the requirements of law, governed
by this subchapter, or 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1-1 et seq.
   (C)   The procedures established in I.C. 4-21.5, the administrative
procedure and orders act, may apply to the conduct of the hearing.
   (D)   After the Board of Health hearing, the petitioner may appeal the Board
of Health ruling to the County Board of Commissioners, who will determine if
proper process was followed. This appeal must be filed within 30 days after the
date of the Board of Health's decision.
   (E)   After the Board of Commissioners hearing, the petitioner may appeal to
the Circuit Court of Howard County. This appeal must be filed within 30 days
after the date of the Board of Commissioners' decision.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.30 REMEDIES.
   Upon refusal or neglect of any person to correct an unlawful or unsanitary
condition when the abatement of the condition has been ordered in writing by
the Health Officer or designee, or an appeal against the order has been
sustained by the Health Officer, the Health Officer or designee may, through
the office of the County Attorney, or an attorney representing the Health
Department, institute proceedings in the judicial court district wherein the
offense occurs for enforcement by prohibitory or mandatory injunction to
restrain any person from violating the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.31 FEE SCHEDULE.
   As set forth in the County Health Department Fee Collection Ordinance and
any amendments or revisions hereafter.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.32 CONFLICT OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any code of the county existing on the effective
date of this subchapter, the provision which establishes the higher standard
for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people shall
prevail. In any case where a provision of any other code of the county existing
on the effective date of this subchapter which establishes a lower standard for
the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people, are hereby
declared to be repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict with
this subchapter.
   (B)   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of
this subchapter should be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such
decision shall not affect the remaining portions of this subchapter, which
shall remain in full force and effect, and to the end the provisions of this
subchapter are hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of this chapter shall be fined for
the first offense not more than $500; for the second and each subsequent
offense not more than $1000. Each day after the expiration of the time limit
for abating unsanitary conditions and completing improvements to abate such
conditions as ordered by the County Board of Health shall constitute a distinct
and separate offense. Further, any person found to be in violation of this
chapter shall be liable to the County Board of Health for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned the Board of Health by reason of violation.
(BCC Ord. 1993-34, passed 11-1-93)
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
51.20 through
51.32 shall be fined for the first offense not more than $2,000; for the second
and each subsequent offense not more than $2,500. Any person constructing,
installing, replacing, altering, or repairing any OSS who is not certified in
Howard County shall be deemed to be in violation of §§
51.20 through
51.32. Each day after the expiration of the time limit for abating unsanitary
conditions and completing improvements to abate such conditions as ordered by
the County Health Department shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
      (2)   In the event that any on-site sewage system installed does not meet
compliance with §§
51.20 through
51.32, after the expiration of the time limit for correction, the installer
shall be fined for the first offense not more than $1,000 and suspension of
license. For the second offense, after the expiration of the time limit for
correction, the installer shall be fined not more than $2,500 and revocation of
license.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-23, passed 5-9-06)
CHAPTER 52: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
Private Water Wells
   
52.01   Title and purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Water wells; location and construction
   
52.04   Pump installation
   
52.05   Use of wells for drainage or waste disposal
   
52.06   Abandonment of wells
   
52.07   Disinfection and samples
   
52.08   Licensing, permits and inspections
   
52.09   Appeals
   
52.10   Violations
   
52.11   Remedies
   
52.12   Wellhead protection areas
   
Appendix A: Tables
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision sewer, water and drainage regulations, see §§
152.63 et seq.
PRIVATE WATER WELLS
§ 52.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Title. This chapter regulates the location, construction,
installation, maintenance and repair of all private water wells and pumps in
the county, provides for the administration and enforcement of the provisions
contained herein, and fixes penalties for violation.
   (B)   Short title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
“County Private Water Well Ordinance.”
   (C)   Declaration of purpose.
      (1)   The general purpose of this chapter is to promote the public
health, safety and welfare and to further the following related and specific
objectives.
         (a)   To preserve and improve the environmental quality of the county.
         (b)   To minimize contamination of ground and water resources.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit development under a permit
issued prior to the date of this chapter under any previous laws or ordinances.
      (3)   All private water wells and pumps within the county shall be
installed, constructed and maintained in an approved manner, in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter and if not specifically described herein, as
described in Bulletins S.E. 13 and 15 of the State Board of Health, which are
included by reference as part of this chapter and copies of which are on file
in the offices of the County Auditor and the County Health Officer for public
inspection.
(`83 Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 1977-39, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AQUICLUDE. A formation or stratum that is impermeable to water.
   AQUIFER. A water-bearing formation or stratum.
   CASING. Steel or wrought iron pipe, type K copper, or other material
approved by the Health Officer, to exclude unwanted solids or liquids from the
interior of the well.
   CEMENT GROUT. A thorough mixture consisting of one bag of portland cement
(94 pounds) with five or six gallons of clean water. When such mixture cannot
be placed effectively, additives may be used; provided, shrinkage is held to a
minimum and the mixture will form a water-tight seal throughout the entire
depth required to prevent objectionable waters from entering the hole.
   FLUSHING. The act of causing a rapid flow of water from a well by pumping,
bailing or similar operation.
   GROUND WATER. Any water in natural state below the surface of the ground.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Kokomo- Howard County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer or his or her deputy or assistant
having the responsibility for the administration and enforcement of this
chapter.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL WELL. Any well drilled for more than two residential units
or for use other than residential use or for wells drilled for a combination of
use involving residential and non- residential use.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, institution, school,
unit of government, or officer or employee of any of the foregoing.
   POLLUTION. Contamination or other alteration of the physical, chemical or
biological properties of water as to render the water harmful, detrimental or
injurious to public health or safety.
   POTABLE WATER. Water suitable for drinking or culinary purposes in its
natural state or through conditioning.
   PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY. One or more sources of ground water, including
facilities for conveyance thereof, such as wells, springs and pumps other than
those serving a municipality or those operating as a public utility under the
rules of the State Public Service Commission.
   PUMP INSTALLER. Any individual, partnership, firm or corporation that
installs a pump in a well or opens the well to service a pump.
   RESIDENTIAL WELL. Any well drilled for the use of one or two dwelling units.
   STUFFING BOX. An approved receptacle in which packing may be compressed to
form a water- tight or air-tight junction between two objects.
   TUBING. Metal, fibre or plastic pipe used to withdraw water from a well. A
jet type pump may require two strings of tubing.
   WATER TABLE. The top surface, or upper limit, of the ground water zone.
   WELL. Any excavation, whether drilled, bored, driven, jetted or dug for the
purpose of obtaining water from the ground or returning water to the ground or
for the purpose of testing the quantity or quality of such water or for
lowering (either temporarily or permanently) the ground water level or water
table.
   WELL DRILLER. Any individual, partnership, firm or corporation that produces
or contracts to construct a well.
   WELL DRILLING. Any operation which produces a well.
   WELL OWNER. The legal owner of the real estate containing a well site.
   WELL SEAL. An approved removable arrangement or device used to cap a well or
to establish and maintain a water-tight junction between the casing or curbing
of a well and the piping or equipment installed therein so as to prevent
unwanted water or other contaminating material from entering the well at the
upper terminal.
   WELL VENT. An opening or outlet at the upper end of the well casing to allow
equalization of air pressure in the well.
   YIELD. The quantity of water per unit of time which may flow or be pumped
from a well when water level has remained stabilized for one hour or longer.
(`83 Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 1977-39, passed 12-19-77)
§ 52.03 WATER WELLS; LOCATION AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Location of water supply wells. The location of water supply wells or
buried suction lines shall conform to the minimum separation requirements of
Table I, as set forth in Appendix A.
      (1)   Private water supply wells shall be located at a high point on the
premises and shall be protected from surface drainage and flooding.
      (2)   Each single-family residence constructed after the adoption of this
chapter shall have its own separate well on the lot whereon it is located
except where such residence is connected to and using a public water supply.
      (3)   No well shall be located within the basement of any building or
under a building that has no basement.
   (B)   Construction of wells. All wells shall be constructed in accordance
with the requirements below. Water supply wells for other than single- family
residential use shall have sufficient stabilized yield to produce a minimum
pressure of 20 psi for all uses.
      (1)   Casing.
         (a)   All wells shall be cased to a depth of at least 25 feet below
ground surface.
         (b)   The casings of wells developed in sand or gravel shall extend
water-tight to or into the aquifer.
         (c)   The minimum casing diameter for a well to be used as a source of
potable water shall be four inches or greater. Under no conditions shall it be
less than two inches inside diameter.
         (d)   Every drive pipe shall be fitted at its lower end with a
standard drive shoe, threaded or welded onto the pipe so that the pipe rests on
the internal shoulder of the shoe. The shoe shall have a beveled and tempered
cutting edge of metal alloyed for this special purpose.
         (e)   The casing of the well shall be wrought iron, steel, or type K
copper and shall be of sufficient thickness and quality to protect the well
against structural deficiencies during construction and against contamination
by surface water or other undesirable materials during the expected life of the
well. Only recessed couplings may be used on threaded pipe or casing. Ferrous
casing shall be new, first-class material meeting American Society for Testing
Materials (ASTM) Standards A-120 or A-53, or American Petroleum Institute (API)
Standards API-5A or API-5L. No thin-walled, sheet metal, used, reclaimed,
rejected or contaminated pipe or casing shall be used in a water well. New pipe
or casing, when salvaged from water well test holes only, shall not be
considered as used or contaminated. Where corrosive water or soil is likely to
be encountered, thicker walls in pipe or casing than those which appear in
Tables II through V, as set forth in Appendix A, should be used.
         (f)   Other types of casing may be used in dug or bored wells if the
annular space between the casing and the soil is completely filled by a
monolithic pour of dense, water-tight, puddled or vibrated concrete measuring
at least six inches thick, especially at the bells or joints. This casing shall
be new material and shall extend to a depth of at least 25 feet below ground
surface. For special construction required to prevent surface contamination at
the top of large diameter dug or bored well casings, the State Board of Health
should be consulted. Approval of the Health Officer is required for this type
of construction.
         (g)   The casing pipe of any well shall project not less than 12
inches above the pumphouse floor or finished ground surface, and at least 24
inches above the highest flood level of record. No casing shall be cut off
below ground surface except to install a basement offset or a pitless adapter.
The adapter shall project not less than 12 inches above ground surface.
         (h)   There shall be no opening in the casing wall below its top
except by the use of a properly installed pitless adapter designed to, and
fabricated of such materials that will, keep soil and water from entering the
well during the life of the casing. The pitless adapter shall be of such design
that the tubing or drop pipe cannot be dropped into the well by misalignment in
assembling the internal parts. The upper terminal of the pitless adapter shall
meet the requirements of the preceding paragraph. Due to the difficulty of
making strong and water-tight welds under field conditions, adapters threaded
onto the casing shall be used. A heavy-weight transition fitting, welded water-
tight both internally and externally (full double weld) to the casing and
terminating in a full-sized 8-thread per inch connection may be used instead of
cutting threads on the casing pipe. The adapter fitting itself shall be a
commercially-produced casting or shop-welded fitting, pressure tested to at
least 300 psi with no weeping or leakage. Saddle-type fittings with heavy
corrosion- resistant U bolts and rubber gaskets under system pressure at all
times also may be used.
         (I)   The outside casing wall shall not be used as a suction pipe.
      (2)   Sealing.
         (a)   The casings of wells developed in rock shall be firmly seated in
sound rock. If broken or creviced rock is encountered above the aquifer, the
hole shall be reamed through the broken or creviced rock and the casing seated
in sound rock or an aquiclude. In areas where rock wells can be developed only
in the upper fractured rock, casing may terminate in this formation if there
are at least 25 feet of unconsolidated material above the rock. When there is
less overburden and deeper strata will not produce potable water, the
substandard quality of the well must be recognized. The State Board of Health
should be consulted for the treatment necessary to provide a safe supply.
Approval of the Health Officer shall be required in this case.
         (b)   In a rock well, the annular space between the casing and the
drill hole shall be sealed to a sufficient depth to prevent surface drainage
water, or shallow subsurface drainage, from entering the hole. If rock is
encountered within 25 feet of the surface, the hole shall be reamed at least
four inches greater diameter than the casing so that a minimum two-inch annular
space can be filled with cement grout. The casing shall be extended at least
ten feet into the rock, or to a point at least 25 feet below the surface, and
cement grout shall be used to seal the annular space.
         (c)   Cement grout that is used to seal a hole diameter larger than
the casing shall be composed of a thorough mixture of portland cement and clean
water at a rate of one bag (94 pounds) of cement to five to six gallons of
water so that it can be pumped or puddled into the annular space to seal it. If
such a cement grout cannot be placed effectively, additives may be used
provided shrinkage is held to a minimum and the mixture will form a water-tight
seal throughout the entire depth required to prevent objectionable waters from
entering the hole.
         (d)   Where pipe is driven through clay, silt, sand or gravel into a
hole of smaller diameter than the casing, and where such unconsolidated clays,
silts, sand or gravel are present to a depth greater than 25 feet below the
surface, puddled bentonitic clay may be used to seal the annular space.
Bentonitic clay shall be kept puddled around the point where the casing enters
the ground in order to maintain a seal around the drive pipe and couplings and
to serve as a lubricating medium while driving the casing.
         (e)   Whenever a casing is placed in a hole of larger diameter than
the casing, the annular space between the casing and the wall of the hole shall
be sealed from the rock or screen setting to the surface with either thick
bentonitic clay, mud or cement grout in the manner described above.
         (f)   Dug or bored wells constructed with a screen threaded or welded
to metallic casing, and with a concrete cut-off seal at least 30 inches thick
poured and puddled to fill the excavation 25 or more feet below ground surface,
may be back-filled above the seal with compacted drillings or clay in such a
manner that the resulting fill will be as resistant to seepage as the
undisturbed earth around it. The screen used in this construction shall be
bronze or stainless steel to permit acidizing since it cannot be removed.
      (3)   Screens. Casings of wells drawing from unconsolidated water-bearing
formations, except those described in divisions (B)(1)(f) and (B)(2)(f) above,
shall be fitted with strainers or screens which are set through the casing in a
manner that will permit removal and replacement without adverse effect on the
water-tight construction of the well. Slotted pipe is not acceptable. The
screen shall have openings properly sized to exclude the granular material of
the developed aquifer.
      (4)   Temporary caps. Temporary caps placed on a well until pumping
equipment can be installed shall be such that no contamination can enter the
casing. A properly fitted and firmly driven solid wooden plug or equally
watertight closure is the minimum acceptable.
      (5)   Yield.
         (a)   Wells constructed as a source of water for a residence shall
have a stabilized yield of at least 300 gallons per hour (gph). If a lesser
yield is the maximum amount of water obtainable from the aquifer, the Health
Officer shall be informed and his or her approval obtained.
         (b)   Before it is put into use, every well shall be tested by pumping
for yield and drawdown. The test pump shall have a capacity at least equal to
the pumping rate that is expected of the well during its usage. The test pump
shall be installed to operate continuously until the water level has become
stabilized and, at this point, the yield and drawdown determined. Bailing may
be used to give a rough estimate of the yield of the well, and may be the only
practical way to test very weak wells, but it is not to be considered a
reliable substitute for a pumping test for yields over 150 gph.
      (6)   Records. The well driller shall furnish the Health Officer and the
well owner with duplicate copies of the information he supplies to the
Department of Natural Resources in compliance with the provisions of I.C. 25-
39-4-1. The record shall include a log of the materials penetrated and their
depth or thickness.
(`83 Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 1977-39, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04 PUMP INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Pump installation shall be in accordance with the following
regulations.
      (1)   Hand pumps. All hand pumps, stands or similar devices shall be
installed so that no unprotected opening connecting with the interior of the
pump exists. The pump spout shall be of the closed downward-directed type. All
hand pumps shall be bolted to a mounting flange securely fastened to the well
casing. The top of the casing shall extend at least one inch above the face of
the flange.
      (2)   Power-driven pumps. All power-driven pumps located over wells shall
be mounted on the well casing, a pump foundation or a pump stand so as to
provide an effective well seal at the top of the well. Extension of the casing
at least one inch into the pump base will be considered an effective seal;
provided, the pump is mounted on a base plate or foundation in such a manner as
to exclude dust and insects, and the top of well casing is at an elevation at
least two feet above any known flood water level.
         (a)   Where the pump unit is not located over the well and the pump
delivery or suction pipe emerges from the top thereof, a water-tight expanding
gasket or equivalent well seal shall be provided between the well casing and
piping. A similar water- tight seal shall be provided at the terminal for a
conduit containing a cable for a submersible pump. See §
52.03(B)(1)(g) for casing top above ground surface.
         (b)   All submersible pumps shall have one check valve located on the
discharge line above the pump and inside the casing. If the discharge pipe is
at least 12 inches above the ground and slopes to drain into the well, the
check valve may be located in the house.
         (c)   Pitless adapters with below-ground discharge may be used. See §
52.03(B)(1)(h) for details of construction. The covered top of the adapter
casing section shall extend 12 inches or more above the ground surface or 24
inches above maximum high water. There shall be no openings through the walls
of the well or adapter casing for vents, wires, air lines or the like.
      (3)   Pumphouses. Unless the power-driven pump installation is of
weather-proof and frost-proof construction, it shall be protected by a
structure which permits access to the pump for maintenance and repair work. The
pumphouse floor shall be constructed of impervious material and shall slope
away in all directions from the well or suction pipe.
      (4)   Protection against freezing. Discharge lines and vacuum lines from
the well to the foundation of heated buildings shall be protected against
freezing.
      (5)   Well vents. All well vent openings shall be piped water-tight to a
point not less than 24 inches above any known flood water level and, in any
event, at least six inches above the well casing. See §
52.03(B)(1)(g). Such vent opening and piping shall be of sufficient size to
prevent clogging by hoarfrost and in no case less than ¼-inch in diameter. The
terminals of vent pipes shall be shielded and screened to prevent the entrance
of foreign matter and preferably turned down. If toxic or inflammable gases are
vented from the well, the vent shall extend to the outside atmosphere at a
point where the gases will not produce a hazard. Openings in pump bases shall
be sealed water-tight.
      (6)   Sampling faucets. In all pressure water systems, provision shall be
made for collection of water samples ahead of chlorination, or any other
treatment, by installation of a faucet on the discharge side of and as close as
possible to the pump. The sampling faucet shall have a smooth turned-down
nozzle. A hose bib shall not be used. All-brass pet cocks with 90-degree
turned-down spigots may be acceptable as sampling taps.
      (7)   Suction pipes connecting pump and well. All buried suction pipes,
unless deeper than ten feet below the ground surface, shall be enclosed in a
pipe conduit having a minimum wall thickness equivalent to a casing of same
size. They shall be located from sources of contamination in accordance with
the distances specified in §
52.03(A). No suction line shall be located beneath a sewer. An exposed suction
pipe, as in a basement room, shall be 18 inches or greater practicable distance
above the floor but need not be kept any specified distance horizontally from a
cast iron sewer.
      (8)   Materials prohibited. No material may be used in the well or pump
installation that will result in the delivered water being toxic or having an
objectionable taste or odor. Flexible or nonrigid plastic pipe shall not be
used for suspending submersible pumps. Plastic pipe shall not be used unless
bearing the approval of the National Sanitation Foundation and unless having
the physical properties required to withstand the torque and load to which it
is subjected.
      (9)   Offset pumps. Offset pumps or pressure tanks shall be located where
they are readily accessible. They shall not be located in a crawl space unless
the crawl space is drained to the ground surface beyond the crawl space, either
by gravity or means of a sump pump, and a minimum of four feet of clear working
space is provided between the floor of the crawl space and the floor joist
overhead. If located in a crawl space, the pump or pressure tank shall be
located within five feet of the point of entry. The access opening should be at
least two feet high and two feet wide.
   (B)   All buried suction pipe shall be located from sources of pollution in
accordance with the distances specified under §
52.03(A).
   (C)   Hand pumps shall be provided with a pump platform at least 48 inches
square and four inches thick and reinforced with wire mesh. The upper surface
of the platform shall be above grade and shall have a one-inch crown for
drainage.
   (D)   A pressure tank with a minimum storage capacity of 42 gallons per
dwelling unit shall be installed for each well. Storage capacity for buildings
other than dwellings shall be approved by the Health Department on the basis of
the use of the property.
   (E)   Pump bearing lubrication shall be designed to prevent contamination of
either the water supply or the lubricating medium.
(`83 Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 1977-39, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 USE OF WELLS FOR DRAINAGE OR WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No well may be used for the disposal of sewage or other material that
may contaminate potable water horizons.
   (B)   If a well is to be constructed or used for the purpose of returning
uncontaminated water to the ground, consideration shall extend to thermal as
well as bacterial factors, and the plans for the well and system shall be
submitted to and approved by the Health Officer and the State Stream Pollution
Control Board. To prevent aeration of the returned water, and subsequent
adverse changes in its quality, the return pipe shall discharge at least five
feet below water level in the return well.
(`83 Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 1977-39, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 ABANDONMENT OF WELLS.
   (A)   A well to be abandoned temporarily but which the owner intends to
equip and use at some future time shall be sealed at the surface by a welded or
threaded cap, or in the case of a dug well, in a manner satisfactory to the
Health Officer.
   (B)   A well that is to be abandoned permanently shall be filled with cement
grout opposite each water- bearing formation and in the top 40 feet of the
hole. The remainder of the hole may be filled with puddled clay or other
impermeable material that will permanently prevent migration of fluids in the
hole. Sand, gravel, slag and crushed limestone are not desirable materials to
use in filling a hole because they are permeable, but they may be used opposite
aquicludes to bridge between zones of cement grout. If saltwater is entering or
may enter the well, the entire hole shall be filled with cement grout.
   (C)   Dewatering wells, temporary service wells, construction water wells,
process wells or other structures for withdrawing ground water or lowering of
water levels or water tables regardless of location, length of intended
service, or original use or intent shall be constructed to the identical
standards and minimums as water supply wells covered by this chapter.
   (D)   The abandonment of dewatering wells, construction wells and temporary
wells shall be accomplished by the identical procedure prescribed herein for
permanent abandonment.
(`83 Code, § 51.06) (Ord. 1977-39, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07 DISINFECTION AND SAMPLES.
   (A)   To prevent contamination of the well or aquifer, a chlorine residual
of 200 parts per million, or other disinfectant of comparable anti-bacterial
quality and strength, shall be maintained in the well hole throughout the
drilling process. Under these conditions the well need not be disinfected until
the pump is set. Every new, modified or reconditioned water source, including
pumping equipment and gravel used in gravel wall wells, shall be disinfected
before being placed in service for general use. Such treatment shall be
performed both when the well work is finished and when the pump is installed or
reinstalled. If there is no significant lapse of time between the two
operations, only the latter disinfection will be required. The casing pipe
shall be thoroughly swabbed to remove oil, grease and joint dope, using
alkalies if necessary to obtain clean metal surfaces. The well or other ground
water development equipment, including the pumping equipment and gravel used in
gravel well construction, shall be disinfected with a solution containing
enough chlorine to leave a residual of 25 parts per million in the well after a
period of at least 24 hours.
   (B)   Before the water supply system is approved for use, it shall be
disinfected in accordance with division (A) above, pumped to remove
disinfectant, and tested. Sterile bottles for water samples and bacteriological
tests will be obtained from the State Board of Health, 1330 West Michigan
Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46206, water sample returned to the State
Laboratory, and certification received from the State Laboratory that the
quality of the water is satisfactory for its intended use. A nominal charge is
made by the State Board of Health for this service.
(`83 Code, § 51.07) (Ord. 1977-39, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 LICENSING, PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Licensing of installer. After the effective date of this chapter, no
person shall offer or contract to install any portion of a private water well
or pump without first having obtained a license from the Health Officer.
      (1)   Application for license. Application for the license shall be on
the form prescribed by the Health Officer and shall be accompanied by a fee of
$25.
      (2)   Issuance of license. The license shall be valid for a period of one
year from the date of issuance and shall be renewable each year thereafter. An
application for renewal shall be filed not later than five working days before
the expiration date. The license shall bear the name and address of the
licensee, the date of issuance, and the expiration date of the license. A
license issued under the provisions of this section shall be nontransferable.
      (3)   Revocation of license. The Health Officer shall have the authority
to revoke a license issued under the provisions of this section for repeated
failure to observe the standards established by this chapter or on conviction
of a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Permits. After the effective date of this chapter, no improvement
location permit shall be issued where a private water well or pump is to be
installed or where any alteration or major repair to an existing private water
well or pump is planned unless a permit for the system has been issued by the
Health Officer.
      (1)   Emergency repair. Emergency repair of an existing private water
well or pump may be made on weekends or holidays when the Health Department
office is closed without first obtaining a permit; provided, the repair shall
be in conformance with the provisions of this chapter. A permit for such
emergency repair shall be obtained within five working days thereafter.
      (2)   Application for permit.
         (a)   The application for a permit for installation, alteration or
repair of a private water well or pump shall be made by a licensed installer on
a form provided by the Health Officer, which application shall be supplemented
by plans, specifications and other information as is deemed necessary by the
Health Officer. Plans shall be to a suitable scale and shall indicate the
location of all existing and proposed buildings, property lines, septic tank
and absorption fields, and wells on the property to be developed and on those
properties immediately adjacent to it. Sufficient elevations shall be provided,
to USC and GS datum to indicate the drainage characteristics of the property
involved. The soil information, required for the permit, shall be provided
either by the Soil Conservation Service, USDA, or by an engineer registered in
the state and competent in soil mechanics. The soil information shall include
soil identification using the soil mapping symbols. A permit and inspection fee
of $10 shall be paid to the Health Department at the time the application is
filed.
         (b)   The Health Officer shall review each application for a new or
enlarged private water well. He or she shall make an estimate of the reasonable
and probable effects of the proposed new or enlarged well on existing wells in
the vicinity. If the Health Officer determines, from information available to
him or her at the time of the application, that the proposed new or enlarged
well will deny an adequate supply of water to the owners of existing wells in
the vicinity, he or she shall deny the application.
      (3)   Issuance of permit.
         (a)   A permit to install any private water well or pump shall be
issued only for lots of record in the county, and for lots in subdivisions
given preliminary or final approval by the Plan Commission; provided, however,
that not more than two such permits shall be issued in any one subdivision
given only preliminary approval.
         (b)   Permits for repair may be issued for existing dwellings not
located on lots of record.
         (c)   A permit for a private water well or pump shall not become final
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Health Officer
and is certified in writing as being approved.
         (d)   The permit shall be prominently displayed at the construction
site for the duration of construction.
         (e)   No certificate of occupancy will be granted for new construction
until such time as the water supply system has been certified approved.
   (C)   Inspection. The Health Officer, or his or her agent, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
at any reasonable time and at any state of construction for purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing necessary to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, and further, the
applicant shall notify the Health Officer when the work is ready for
inspection. The inspection shall take place within two working days following
the day of receipt of the notice by the Health Officer. The installation shall
not be placed in service until its acceptance by the Health Officer.
(`83 Code, § 51.08) (Ord. 1977-39, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person who objects to a decision, ruling, regulation,
determination or order made by the Health Officer under this chapter, or his or
her attorney, may file with the Health Officer an appeal directed to the Board
of Health.
   (B)   An appeal filed in such a manner shall stay the decision, ruling,
regulation, determination or order appealed from, as the same applies to the
appellant, until the Board of Health has taken final action on the appeal,
except that an order to abate a hazard to the public health shall not be stayed
by such an appeal.
   (C)   All decisions and findings shall be final administrative decisions and
shall be subject to judicial review as provided by law.
(`83 Code, § 51.09) (Ord. 1977-39, passed 12-19-77)
§ 52.10 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be considered a violation of this chapter for any person to
refuse to allow a representative of the Health Officer to inspect any water
well or pump when he or she requests to make such an inspection during
reasonable hours.
   (B)   When the Health Officer shall have found an insanitary condition to
exist or shall have found a violation of the technical standards of this
chapter which could reasonably be expected to lead to an insanitary condition,
that officer shall give written notice of such finding to the person who is
responsible for the correction of the condition, and the officer shall set a
time limit for the correction to be completed. The “notice of violation” is to
be posted conspicuously on the premises.
   (C)   Time limits as set by the Health Officer shall be reasonable and shall
be consistent with the nature of the condition which brought about the notice
of finding and shall be consistent with the amount of time which shall
reasonably be expected to be required for the correction to be made under
ordinary circumstances. Extensions of time may be granted under extraordinary
circumstances or conditions.
   (D)   If such an insanitary condition shall not be corrected within the time
limit set by the notice of finding or extension, the person shall be liable for
maintaining a hazard to the public health and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person except the
Health Officer to remove or allow to be removed a “notice of violation” posted
on any property for a violation of this chapter.
(`83 Code, § 51.10) (Ord. 1977-39, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.11 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The Health Officer or the Appeals Board may institute a suit for
injunction in any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person, firm
or corporation from violating the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Health Officer or the Appeals Board may institute a suit for a
mandatory injunction in any court of competent jurisdiction directing a person,
firm or corporation to remove any component of a water well or pump installed
in violation of the provisions of this chapter or to eliminate a hazard to the
public health.
(`83 Code, § 51.98) (Ord. 1977-39, passed 12-19-77)
§ 52.12 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREAS.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   In response to requirements set forth in the 1986 Federal Clean
Water Act, the Indiana Wellhead Protection Rule, 327 IAC 8-4.1, was signed into
law on March 28, 1997. The Rule established requirements for the development of
a wellhead protection plan by all community public water supply systems located
in the state. The program, regulated by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM), recognizes that groundwater quality can be threatened by
specific land uses and activities that occur in areas adjacent to public water
supply system production wells. The Town of Greentown developed a wellhead
protection plan (approved by IDEM in February 2006) that delineated the town’s
wellhead protection areas and established management strategies that focus on
education and prevention as a means to protect the community’s drinking water
quality.
      (2)   Wellhead protection areas are the surface and subsurface areas that
contribute water to a community public water supply system production well and
through which contaminants are likely to move through and reach the well within
a one-, five- or ten-year time of travel. Wellhead protection areas shall be
shown as an overlay on the Official Zoning Map.
   (B)   Sanitary setback. A SANITARY SETBACK is an area within the wellhead
protection area and established around a community public water supply system
production well to protect ground water from direct contamination. The sanitary
setback radius is 100 feet. Within the sanitary setback, it is prohibited to
use, apply, store, mix, load or transport chemicals (other than those used for
drinking water treatment).
   (C)   One-, five- and ten-year time of travel. The time of travel is the
calculated length of time a particle of water takes to reach a production well
from a certain point within the wellhead protection area. These areas shall be
managed as the wellhead protection areas.
   (D)   Development plan review. Refer to division (E) below for development
plan requirements. During the plan review process, the Zoning Commissioner or
Plan Commission shall:
      (1)   Assess whether the proposed development will prevent potential
ground water contaminants from entering a public water supply system production
well;
      (2)   Ensure that the proposed development will not unreasonably endanger
the quality of groundwater within the wellhead protection area; and
      (3)   Ensure development standards are implemented and prohibit those
uses described in division (E).
   (E)   Development standards and prohibited uses within the wellhead
protection areas.
      (1)   All aboveground storage tanks of liquids shall be equipped with
secondary containment to capture spills or leaks. Containment must effectively
contain at least 110% of the volume of the tank.
      (2)   Landfills and hazardous waste disposal sites shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Infiltration basins, dry wells, cesspools, waste disposal wells, or
other injection-type wells shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Underground storage tanks shall be double walled and be equipped
with leak detection. Underground storage tanks shall also be in compliance with
all state and federal regulations.
      (5)   Construction of new sanitary or storm sewer lines within the
sanitary setbacks (within 200 feet of any production well) shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2013-BCCO-32, passed 11-18-13)
APPENDIX A: TABLES
TABLE I
LOCATION OF WATER SUPPLY WELLS
From To
     Single-Family Dwelling Other
     Feet Meters            Feet Meters
TABLE I
LOCATION OF WATER SUPPLY WELLS
From                                        To
                                            Single-Family Dwelling Other
                                            Feet Meters            Feet Meters
Extra heavy C.I. sewers with mechanical     10   3.00              25   7.60
joints
Other sewers and drains                     50   15.25             100  30.50
Septic tanks and privies                    50   15.25             100  30.50
Absorption fields, cesspools, dry wells and 100  30.50             100  30.50
seepage pits
Aerobic digestion plant                     100  30.50             100  30.50
Waste stabilization pond or terminal lagoon 100  30.50             100  30.50
Barns, stables, manure piles, feeding pens, 50   15.25             100  30.50
livestock runs and the like
Streams, lakes, ponds, ditches              25   7.60              25   7.60
Ditches or streams polluted with sewage     100  30.50             100  30.50
Property lines                              15   4.60              100  30.50
Road, utility, drainage easement            10   3.00              10   3.00
Pumphouse floor drain with discharge to     2    0.60              2    0.60
ground
Building overhang                           3    0.90              3    0.90
TABLE II
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DIMENSIONS AND WEIGHTS
STANDARD LINE PIPE *
Nominal Size Diameters in inches Wall Thicknesses in Weights in Pounds per Foot
in Inches    External Internal   Inches              Plain Ends T. and C.
TABLE II
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DIMENSIONS AND WEIGHTS
STANDARD LINE PIPE *
Nominal Size Diameters in inches Wall Thicknesses in Weights in Pounds per Foot
in Inches    External Internal   Inches              Plain Ends T. and C.
2½          2.875    2.469      0.203               5.79       5.88
3½          4.000    3.548      0.226               9.11       9.27
14 OD        14.000   13.250     0.375               54.57      55.80
16 OD        16.000   15.250     0.375               62.58      64.08
18 OD        18.000   17.250     0.375               70.59      72.37
20 OD        20.000   19.250     0.375               78.60      80.70
*   These wall thicknesses in Standard Line Pipe may be threaded and coupled or
welded.
TABLE III
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DIMENSIONS AND WEIGHTS
STANDARD PIPE AND LINE PIPE *
Nominal Size Diameters in inches Wall Thicknesses in Weights in Pounds per Foot
in Inches    External Internal   Inches              Plain Ends Only
TABLE III
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DIMENSIONS AND WEIGHTS
STANDARD PIPE AND LINE PIPE *
Nominal Size Diameters in inches Wall Thicknesses in Weights in Pounds per Foot
in Inches    External Internal   Inches              Plain Ends Only

14 OD        14.000   13.438     0.281               41.21
16 OD        16.000   15.438     0.281               47.22
18 OD        18.000   17.438     0.281               53.22
20 OD        20.000   19.438     0.281               59.23
*   This lighter weight pipe, meeting ASTM Standards A-53 or A-120 and API
Standard API-5L, is suitable for welding only.
 
TABLE IV
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DIMENSIONS AND WEIGHTS
STANDARD WATER WELL CASING *
Nominal Size Diameters in inches Wall Thicknesses in Weights in Pounds per Foot
in Inches    External Internal   Inches              Plain Ends T. and C.
3½          3.500    3.250      0.125               4.51       4.60
4½          4.500    4.216      0.142               6.61       6.75
5½          5.500    5.192      0.154               8.79       9.00
*   Standard water well casing may not be used as an outer casing unless backed
with cement grout at least two inches thick. A welded 8-thread transition
fitting must be used to attach a pitless adapter to this type of casing.
TABLE V
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DIMENSIONS AND WEIGHTS
STANDARD API CASING *
Nominal Size Diameters in inches Wall Thicknesses in Weights in Pounds per Foot
in Inches    External Internal   Inches              Plain Ends T. and C.
TABLE V
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DIMENSIONS AND WEIGHTS
STANDARD API CASING *
Nominal Size Diameters in inches Wall Thicknesses in Weights in Pounds per Foot
in Inches    External Internal   Inches              Plain Ends T. and C.
4½          4.500    4.090      0.205               9.40       9.50
5½          5.500    5.044      0.228               12.84      13.00
10¾         10.750   10.192     0.279               31.20      32.75
11¾         11.750   11.150     0.300               36.69      38.00
*   Because of the type of steel used in fabricating API casing, it should
always be threaded and not welded.
 
CHAPTER 53: ILLICIT DISCHARGES
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Title
   
53.02   Effective date
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Illicit discharges prohibited
   
53.05   Authorized discharges
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.15   Inspections
   
53.16   Notice
   
53.17   Violation
   
53.18   Appeals
   
53.19   Remedies not exclusive
   
53.20   Enforcement and penalties
Cross-reference:
   Storm water drainage, see
Chapter 154
   Storm water erosion and sediment control, see
Chapter 156
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “County Municipal
Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Illicit Discharge Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2004-BCC-37, passed 11-1-04)
§ 53.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect on January 1, 2006.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-37, passed 11-1-04)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The same as MS4 COORDINATOR defined below.
   BOARD. The Board of Directors of the Department, as defined in I.C. 8-1.5-5-
4 and exercising the powers granted under I.C. 8-1.5-5-6.
   CONVEYANCE. Any structural process for transferring storm water between at
least two points. This term includes: piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains and roadways.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Department of Stormwater Management created by §
31.09. It also refers to, and is the same as, the Howard County Stormwater
District Board.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Solid waste generated by households that:
      (1)   Is ignitable;
      (2)   Is toxic;
      (3)   Is reactive;
      (4)   Is corrosive; or
      (5)   Otherwise poses a threat to human health or the environment.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a MS4 conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater, except naturally introduced floatables, such as leaves
or tree limbs. Sources of illicit discharges include but are not limited to
sanitary wastewater, septic tank effluent, commercial car wash wastewater, oil
spills or disposal, radiator flushing disposal, laundry wastewater, roadway
accidental spillage, pollutant run-off, and household hazardous wastes.
Authorized discharges enumerated in §
53.05 are not illicit discharges.
   MUNICIPAL STORMWATER DISTRICT MS4 AREA. That area of Howard County described
in the NPDES General Permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORMWATER SEWER SYSTEM COORDINATOR or MS4 COORDINATOR.
The individual designated by the Board to administer and provide oversight of
the MS4 program, which includes program coordination, development and
implementation. This office is also referred to, and is the same as, the
ADMINISTRATOR.
   MUNICIPAL STORMWATER DISTRICT MS4 SYSTEM. A conveyance or system of
conveyances, including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains, that:
      (1)   Is owned, operated or regulated by Howard County, Indiana;
      (2)   Discharges into the waters of the State of Indiana;
      (3)   Is designated or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
      (4)   Is not a combined sewer; and
      (5)   Is not a part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW) as defined
in 40 CFR 122.2.
   MUTUAL DRAIN.  A drain that:
      (1)   Is located on two or more tracts of land that are under different
ownership;
      (2)   Was established by the mutual consent of all the owners; and
      (3)   Was not established under or made subject to any Indiana drainage
statute.
   PRIVATE DRAIN. A drainage system that:
      (1)   Is located on land owned by one person or by two or more persons
jointly; and
      (2)   Was not established under or made subject to any Indiana drainage
statute.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. The person who is responsible for any violation of this
chapter.
   SPILL or SPILLAGE. The unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved
dumping, leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of petroleum,
hazardous substances, extremely hazardous substances or objectionable
substances. The terms do not include releases to impervious surfaces when the
substance does not migrate off the surface or penetrate the surface and enter
the soil.
   STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail or
sleet.
   VIOLATION. Any act or omission which violates or fails to comply with any
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-37, passed 11-1-04; Am. Ord. 2010-BCC-12, passed 4-19-10; Am.
Ord. 2023 BCCO-25, passed 6-19-23)
§ 53.04 ILLICIT DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   The commencement or continuance of any illicit discharge into the Municipal
Stormwater District MS4 System is hereby prohibited and declared to be illegal.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-37, passed 11-1-04; Am. Ord. 2010-BCC-12, passed 4-19-10; Am.
Ord. 2023 BCCO-25, passed 6-19-23)
§ 53.05 AUTHORIZED DISCHARGES.
   Pursuant to Howard County’s General Permit, the following discharges are
authorized and therefore are not considered “illicit” so as to be prohibited
under this subchapter:
   (A)   Discharges of stormwater (including snowmelt) to waters of the state
from all known outfalls and conveyances that are owned and/or operated by an
MS4 entity.
   (B)   Stormwater commingled with other discharges either regulated by other
NPDES permits or determined by IDEM or the MS4 entity to not be a significant
source of pollutants, including without limitation, the following:
      (1)   Water line and hydrant flushing for maintenance;
      (2)   Irrigation water;
      (3)   Footing, foundation, and crawl space drains (uncontaminated);
      (4)   Excess storm sewer cleaning water not collected by a vacuum truck
(uncontaminated);
      (5)   Fire suppression activities;
      (6)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
      (7)   Springs;
      (8)   Residential car washing;
      (9)   Non-commercial car washing by community organizations;
      (10)   External building wash down, without detergents;
      (11)    Dechlorinated/debrominated residential swimming pool discharges;
      (12)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration (as defined at 40 CFR
35.2005(20));
      (13)   Pavement wash waters, provided spills or leaks of toxic or
hazardous materials have not occurred (unless all spill material has been
removed) and where detergents are not used; and
      (14)   Uncontaminated condensate from air conditioning units, coolers and
other compressors, and from outside storage of refrigerated gasses or liquids.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-37, passed 11-1-04; Am. Ord. 2010-BCC-12, passed 4-19-10; Am.
Ord. 2023 BCCO-25, passed 6-19-23)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.15 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The County Drainage Board and the County Surveyor shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   For this purpose, the County Surveyor and his or her agents shall have
the right to enter upon and inspect real estate and facilities subject to
regulation under this chapter, as often as necessary to determine compliance or
noncompliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-37, passed 11-1-04)
§ 53.16 NOTICE.
   (A)   The County Surveyor shall issue a notice of violation letter by
certified mail to any responsible person committing a violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   The notice of violation letter will:
      (1)   Describe the violation that has been committed; and
      (2)   State that such violation must be corrected within 15 days of the
date of notice or further action may be taken, including possible fines.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-37, passed 11-1-04)
§ 53.17 VIOLATION.
   (A)   If the violation is corrected within the 15 days from the postmarked
date of notice, no further action will be taken.
   (B)   If the violation is not so corrected, the Surveyor shall, after
determining which course of action will best result in a correction of the
violation:
      (1)   File the notice of violation with the County Drainage Board, which
shall conduct a hearing, with notice to the responsible person, within 30 days
of such filing.
         (a)   If the Drainage Board finds by a preponderance of the evidence
that a violation of this chapter has occurred, it may:
            1.   Impose fines upon the responsible person in an amount not to
exceed $2,500, all in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-9(d); and/or
            2.   Issue orders to correct violations.
         (b)   In the event the responsible person does not pay any fine
imposed by the Drainage Board or correct the violation as ordered by the
Drainage Board, the Drainage Board may commence a court action to enforce any
fine or to obtain compliance with any order under I.C. 34-28-1-5(b); or
      (2)   Commence a court action under I.C. 34-28-5-1(b) to enforce this
chapter.
         (a)   Such action may be for injunctive relief, restraining the
responsible person from activities causing a violation, or compelling such
person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
         (b)   In addition or in the alternative, the court, at its discretion,
may impose fines not exceeding $2,500.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-37, passed 11-1-04)
§ 53.18 APPEALS.
   Any appeal by a responsible person of an order or fine issued by the
Drainage Board must be filed with the court not more than 60 days after the day
on which the Drainage Board order was entered, all in accordance with I.C. 36-
1-6-9(e) and (f).
(Ord. 2004-BCC-37, passed 11-1-04)
§ 53.19 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any federal, state or local laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-37, passed 11-1-04)
§ 53.20 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Functioning under the ultimate authority of the Department Board of
Directors, the Administrator (Coordinator) is hereby authorized to administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of §§
53.03 through
53.05 in accordance with the policies and procedures set out in this section.
For this purpose, the Administrator shall have the right to enter upon and
inspect real estate, conveyances and facilities subject to regulation hereunder
as often as necessary to determine compliance or non-compliance.
   (B)   If a violation is identified and cannot be informally resolved by the
Administrator, the Administrator, in his discretion, may issue a notice of
violation to the responsible party. This notice shall be served by certified
mail, return receipt requested, and shall describe the violation committed and
state that it must be corrected within 15 days (or more, if circumstances
dictate) of receipt, or further action may be taken, including possible fines,
court actions or other remedial steps permitted by §§
53.03 through
53.05.
   (C)   If the violation is corrected within the allotted time, no further
action need be taken. If the violation is not timely corrected, the
Administrator may, in his or her discretion, seek compliance by imposing a fine
upon the responsible party for each day the violation exists, not to exceed
$1,000 in the aggregate. If such fine does not achieve compliance, or the
Administrator opts not to impose a fine, the Administrator may refer the matter
to the Board of Directors requesting that, after due consideration, the Board
take one or more of the following actions:
      (1)   Set a hearing on the violation, with due notice to the responsible
party by certified mail, return receipt requested, mailed at least 15 days
prior to the date set for the hearing.
      (2)   With or without a hearing:
         (a)   Issue an order to the responsible party to correct the
violation;
         (b)   Impose fines not to exceed $2,500 in the aggregate in accordance
with I.C. 36-1-6-9;
         (c)   Commence a court action to enforce §§
53.03 through
53.05 under the authority of I.C. 36-1-6-4 requesting the court to order one or
more of the remedies listed, including without limitation injunctive relief,
cease and desist orders, enforcement of fines levied, remediation; and/or
         (d)   Seek reasonable compensation from a court for damages the
responsible party has caused to Howard County's MS4 System.
   (D)   An appeal of any action, order or fine imposed by the Board, or any
fine imposed by the Administrator pursuant to division (C) above, must be filed
with the court not more than 60 days after the imposition of any action, order
or fine, all in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-9(f).
   (E)   The above enumerated remedies are not exclusive of any other remedies
which may be available to the Board under any federal, state or local law or
regulation.
(Am. Ord. 2010-BCC-12, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2023 BCCO-25, passed 6-19-23)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Emergency regulations
   
70.02   Placement of traffic signs
   
70.03   Damaging signs, markers or roads
   
70.04   Compliance with stop signs
   
70.05   Emerging from private road or driveway
   
70.06   Visibility at intersections
   
70.07   Snowmobiles prohibited on certain highways
   
70.08   Parking not to obstruct traffic
Cross-reference:
   Diving and jumping from bridges, see §
130.01
   Operation of vehicles in parks, see §
93.03
   Police Force, see §
32.01
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
   Traffic Commission, see §
31.05
   Vehicle excise tax and wheel tax, see §
33.46
§ 70.01 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authority of Traffic Commission. The County Traffic Commission is
hereby authorized to make temporary rules regulating traffic along all county
roads and highways under the jurisdiction of the Commission, including the
placing of stop signs and yield right-of-way signs at highway or road
intersections.
(`83 Code, § 70.10)
   (B)   Duration of temporary regulations. No temporary rule or regulation
adopted by the County Traffic Commission nor any traffic regulation sign
adopted pursuant to division (A) shall remain in force and effect for more than
30 days from its adoption.
(`83 Code, § 70.11) (Ord. 1977-26, passed 8-1-77)
§ 70.02 PLACEMENT OF TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   The County Highway Department is hereby authorized to post traffic signs at
or upon all entrances or intersections of any county road or part thereof as
may be appropriate.
(`83 Code, § 70.01(A)) (Ord. 1971-8, passed 7-19-71)
§ 70.03 DAMAGING SIGNS, MARKERS OR ROADS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously damage,
disfigure, displace, deface, obliterate, mar, remove, injure or destroy any
sign, road marker or other road in the county.
(`83 Code, § 70.03) (Ord. 1971-8, passed 7-19-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 COMPLIANCE WITH STOP SIGNS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at all
intersections where a stop sign is erected and shall proceed cautiously,
yielding the right-of-way to vehicles approaching on the county roads and not
so obliged to stop.
(`83 Code, § 70.01(B)) (Ord. 1971-8, passed 7-19-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 EMERGING FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a county road from a private
road or driveway shall bring his or her vehicle to a stop before entering or
crossing the county road.
(`83 Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 1971-8, passed 7-19-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL EXIT. Any vehicular exit from any automobile service station,
shopping center, store, medical or professional center, or other similar public
place.
   CRITICAL VISIBILITY ZONE. The area within which the presence of obstructions
to vision such as trees, vegetation and signs could prevent the driver of a
motor vehicle which is stopped behind the stop line of any road, highway or
commercial exit at its intersection with any other road or highway from seeing
any other vehicle which is approaching on the intersecting road or highway and
is within 200 feet of the intersection.
   SIGN. Any temporary or permanent structure, banner, pennant or string of
pennants used for advertising or decorative purposes.
   STOP LINE. The actual obedience line if there be one. If there is none, one
shall be assumed to exist four feet before the nearest edge of the intersecting
road or highway.
   TREE. A large, woody perennial plant having a clearly recognizable trunk.
   VEGETATION. Any bush, hedge, flowering or ornamental plant, weed growth,
low-growing evergreen, standing agricultural field crops, or other form of
vegetation.
(`83 Code, § 93.01)
   (B)   Regulation of signs. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or
cause to be placed in any critical visibility zone within the county any sign
of which any part thereof is higher than 36 inches above grade level, unless
the lowest portion of the sign exclusive of a supporting structure is no wider
than 12 inches in its greatest dimension and is at least eight feet above grade
level.
(`83 Code, § 93.02)
   (C)   Regulation of trees and vegetation.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling property
within the county to cause or permit any tree within any critical visibility
zone to remain untrimmed below a height of eight feet above the ground, or to
permit any shrubbery within any critical visibility zone to grow to a height
greater than 36 inches above ground.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling property
within the county to permit the foliage of any tree or vegetation growing on
the property or obscure any driver’s view of any lawfully-placed stop sign or
traffic-control signal or sign during any part of the last 200 feet of his or
her approach to the sign or traffic-control device.
(`83 Code, § 93.03)
   (D)   Notice. Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon
receipt of official notification from the Traffic Commission that a violation
has taken place, correct the cause of the violation within 14 days from the
date of notification or be subject to the penalties provided in §
10.99.
(`83 Code, § 93.04) (Ord. passed 10-17-77) Penalty, see
10.99
§ 70.07 SNOWMOBILES PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Snowmobiles, as that term is defined under state law, shall be
prohibited from traveling within the right-of-way of 250S, also known as Alto
Road, from its intersection with U.S. 31 and continuing in a westerly direction
to and including the intersection of 750W.
   (B)   Such prohibition shall be suspended and held in abeyance during the
time that any validly declared snow emergency effecting the county is in
effect.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to endorse or designate any
other property or highway rights-of-way in the county as snowmobile routes, or
to imply that snowmobiles may be ridden safely in any other areas within the
boundaries of the county, or to otherwise recommend or maintain areas for the
purpose of snowmobile riding or operation.
(BCC Ord. 1988-24, passed 9-12-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   BUS.  A motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers
exclusive of the driver.
   INTERSECTION.  The area embraced within:
      (1)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two streets that join
at, or approximately at, right angles; or
      (2)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle with or without motive power equipped
exclusively for living quarters for persons traveling on public streets.
   SEMITRAILER.  A vehicle without motive power, designed for carrying property
and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, and so constructed that some part of
the weight of the semitrailer and the semitrailer’s load rests upon, or is
carried by another vehicle.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part of the way is open to the use of the public for the
purposes of vehicular travel. The term includes an “alley”.
   TRACTOR.  A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing or
propelling trailers, semitrailers, or vehicles of any kind.
   TRAILER.  A vehicle without motive power, designed for carrying persons or
property; designed for being drawn by a motor vehicle; and, so constructed that
no part of the weight of the trailer rests upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK.  A motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   VEHICLE. Except as otherwise provided, a device in or upon, or by which a
person or property is, or may be, transported or drawn upon a street, alley, or
highway. The term includes an automobile, a motorcycle, a truck, a trailer, a
semitrailer, a tractor, a bus, a school bus, a recreational vehicle, or a
motorized bicycle.
   (B)   Parking not to obstruct traffic.
      (1)   No person shall park any vehicle on the street or alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as would leave available less than 10 feet of
the width of the roadway for free movement of traffic.
      (2)   No person shall park a truck that is wider than 8 feet or higher
than 10 feet or longer than 28 feet, which dimensions shall include any load
carried thereon on any street, except when loading or unloading as provided by
this chapter or other ordinances of the county.
      (3)   No person shall park a semitrailer, either alone or coupled to a
tractor on any street, that is when alone or coupled to a tractor, wider than 8
feet or higher than 10 feet or longer than 36 feet, which dimensions shall
include any load carried thereon, except when loading or unloading as provided
by this chapter or other ordinances of the county.
      (4)   No person shall park a bus that is wider than 8 feet or higher than
10 feet or longer than 26 feet on any street, except when loading or unloading
as provided by this chapter or other ordinances of the county.
      (5)   No person shall park any vehicle whose gross weight, including any
load, exceeds 7,000 pounds on any street, except when loading or unloading as
provided by this chapter or other ordinances of the county.
      (6)   No person shall park any vehicle over 7 feet high within 80 feet of
any intersection except when loading or unloading as provided by this chapter
or other ordinances of the county.
      (7)   The provisions of divisions (2), (3), (4), and (5) above shall not
apply to any state highway within the county, nor to any vehicle which incurs
mechanical failure when the person in charge of the disabled vehicle has placed
at least one lighted flare or other illuminated or reflective warning device at
least 100 feet in front of such vehicle, and a similar warning device 100 feet
to the rear of such vehicle.
      (8)   No person shall park a recreational vehicle, or trailer of any kind
or type on any street for a continuous period in excess of 72 hours.
      (9)   The Sheriff or the Howard Traffic Commission may for specific
purposes, and for a limited time, grant approval for parking of vehicles not in
compliance with this section.
   (C)   Penalties.  Violations of this section shall be subject to the
penalties set out at §
10.99. Each day a violation is permitted to continue in violation of the terms
of this section shall be considered a separate offense.
(BCC Ord. 2001-59, passed 12-3-01) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No passing zones
      
II.   Speed limits
      
III.   Stop intersections
      
IV.   Vehicle loads
      
V.   Yield intersections
      
VI.   Traffic control signals
SCHEDULE I: NO PASSING ZONES
    (A)   No passing zones. It shall be unlawful for the operator of a motor
vehicle on 300S between 200W and 350W to operate a motor vehicle across the
center line of such road except in conformance with passing permitted under the
following schedule.
   (B)   Any person violating the terms of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(`83 Code, Ch. 73, Sched. I) (BCC Ord. 1994-6, passed 2-7-94)
SCHEDULE II: SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall drive a motor vehicle on a highway at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having
regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing. In every event, speed
shall be so restricted as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person,
vehicle or other conveyance on or near or entering a highway in compliance with
legal requirements and with the duty of all persons to use due care. Except
when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed, in compliance with this
schedule, the limits specified in this schedule as determined by an engineering
and traffic investigation shall be maximum lawful speeds, and no person shall
drive a vehicle on a highway, street or road at a speed in excess of the
maximum limits. These speed limits shall become effective upon the erection or
establishment of appropriate signs giving notice of the limits.
   (B)   Speed limits on streets in certain subdivisions. Whoever violates any
of the following speed limits shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of
not more than $2,500:
SPEED LIMITS ON STREETS IN CERTAIN SUBDIVISIONS
Subdivision Street Location Speed Limit (mph) Ord. No. Date Passed
SPEED LIMITS ON STREETS IN CERTAIN SUBDIVISIONS
                                                                           Speed Ord.  Date
Subdivision                Street          Location                        Limit No.   Passed
                                                                           (mph)
                                                                                 1999-
                           Red Rock Court     —                       30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                           From Boulder Way to Granite           1999-
                           Grey Rock Lane  Drive                           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
Boulders West              Boulder Way     From 100 South to terminus      30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Kody Court         —                       30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Granite Drive   From 100 South to terminus      30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
Breezy Woods               Breezy Way Dr.  From 400W to 100S               30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Brookhaven Dr.  From Crescent Dr. to Brookhaven 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
                           Crescent Dr.    From Ridge Rd. to Brookhaven    30    1973- 8-13-
Brookhaven                                 Dr.                                   8     73
                           Pavalion Dr.    From Ridge Rd. to Brookhaven    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
                           Ridge Rd.       Sycamore Rd. (120N) to County   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Road 350E                             8     73
                           Christopher     From McKibben Drive to Rolland        1999-
                           Drive           Drive                           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                           From Christopher Drive to             1999-
                           Lyons Drive     McKibben Drive                  30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
Brookshire                 McKibben Drive  From 300S to Christopher Drive  30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Rolland Drive   From McKibben Drive to terminus 30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Oliene Drive    From McKibben Drive to terminus       1999-
                                                                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Brookshire                                            1999-
                           Drive           From 250S to Woodfield Dr.      30    B CC- 2-1-99
Brookshire Estates                                                               06
                                           From Brookshire Drive to              1999-
                           Woodfield Drive Brookshire Drive                30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
Cardinal Point             Quince Lane     From 300E to 344E               30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
Cassville                  Cass St.        From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
Center                     Chestnut St.    From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Cleveland St.   From Jefferson St. to terminus  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           at town limits                        8     73
                          Elm St.         From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Harrison St.    From Jefferson St. to terminus  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           at town limits                        8     73
                          Jefferson St.   From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Main St. (300S) From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          North St.       From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Oklahoma St.    From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Race St.        From Harrison St. to terminus   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           at town limits                        8     73
                          Walnut St.      From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Washington St.  From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                           Lake Shore                                            1999-
                           Drive           From 440W to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
Champagne Shores           Champagne Court    —                       30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Sandy Court        —                       30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Scarlet Ct.     From Scarlet Dr. to terminus    30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                           From Shamrock Ave. to Shamrock        1999-
Cloverdale                 Scarlet Dr.     Ave.                            30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Shamrock Ave.   From 600E to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Cobblestone                                           1999-
                           Drive           From 100S to Waterstone Circle  30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                           From Waterstone Circle to             1999-
Cobblestone Village        Fieldstone Way  terminus                        30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Waterstone      From Cobblestone Drive to             1999-
                           Circle          terminus                        30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Bridgestone                                           2004- 12-6-
Cobblestone Villas         Circle             —                       30    BCC-  04
                                                                                 44
                           Alameda Blvd.   From subdivision limits to      30    1973- 8-13-
                                           subdivision limits                    8     73
                           Janice Dr.      From Orleans Dr. to Alameda     30    1973- 8-13-
Cook                                       Blvd.                                 8     73
                           Orleans Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Orleans Dr.     From subdivision limits to      30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Alameda Blvd.                         8     73
                           Northampton                                           1999-
                           Drive           From 200W to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Sheffield       From Northampton Drive to             1999-
                           Circle          terminus                        30    B CC- 2-1-99
Cotswold Hills                                                                   06
                                           From Northampton Drive to             1999-
                           Coventry Drive  terminus                        30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Lake Windemere                                        1999-
                           Lane            From Northampton to terminus    30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
Country Lane               Country Ln.     From U.S. 31 to Patricia Dr.    30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Patricia Dr.    From County Lane to Country     30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Lane                                  8     73
                           Arnold St.      From Emery Ave. to terminus of  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           subdivision                           8     73
                           Clark St.       From Arnold St. to terminus of  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           subdivision                           8     73
                           Emery St.       From Arnold St. to terminus of  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           subdivision                           8     73
Darrough Chapel            Foster St.      Goyer Rd. (150E) to terminus of 30    1973- 8-13-
(Kenwood Gardens)                          subdivision                           8     73
(Bellaire Gardens)         Harrison St.    From Emery Ave. to terminus of  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           subdivision                           8     73
                           Lewis St.       From Arnold St. to terminus of  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           subdivision                           8     73
                           Markland Ave.   (S.R. 22) from beginning to end 45    1973- 8-13-
                                           of subdivision                        8     73
                           Miller St.      From Foster St. to terminus of  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           subdivision                           8     73
                                                                                 1999-
                           Lynn Drive      From 200E to Edwards Drive      30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Nicole Court       -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
Davis Manor                Carol Court        -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Emily Court        -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Edwards Drive   From Lynn Drive to Lynn Drive   30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Buck Run Ln.       -                         30    1996- 9-3-96
                                                                                 51
                           Deer Creek Rd.     -                         30    1996- 9-3-96
Dear Knoll                                                                       51
                           Knollwood Ln.      -                         30    1996- 9-3-96
                                                                                 51
                           White Tail Ct.     -                         30    1996- 9-3-96
                                                                                 51
                           Riva Ridge      From 600W to Venetianway        30    1986- 12-1-
                                                                                 21    86
                           Secretariat     From Riva Ridge to its terminus 30    1986- 12-1-
Derbyshire                                                                       21    86
                           Venetianway     From Sycamore Road (00NS) to    30    1986- 12-1-
                                           Riva Ridge                            21    86
                           Venetianway Ct. From Riva Ridge to its terminus 30    1986- 12-1-
                                                                                 21    86
                           Arundel Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Arundel Dr.     From North Parkway to North     30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Parkway                               8     73
                           Bellevue Pl.    From North Parkway to North     30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Parkway                               8     73
Devon Woods                Devon Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           North Parkway   From 350W to subdivision limits 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           North Parkway      —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                           Ct.                                                   8     73
                           Stratford Dr.   From Arundel Dr. to Arundel Dr. 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                                                                                 1999-
Echo Acres                 Echo Lane       From 100S to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Emerald Blvd.      -                         30    1996- 11-1-
                                                                                 64    96
Emerald Lake               Emerald Ct.        -                         30    1996- 11-1-
                                                                                 64    96
                           Emerald Ln.        -                         30    1996- 11-1-
                                                                                 64    96
                           Bradley Rd.     From Deffenbaugh (50S) to       30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Harrison Dr.                          8     73
                           Brynmar Dr.     From Boulevard (100S) to        30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Pleasant Dr.                          8     73
                           Fairlane        From Harrison to terminus       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
Fairview                                                                         1999-
                           Lyndenwood Lane From Pleasant Drive to terminus 30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Harrison Dr.    From Bradley Rd. to Fairlane    30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Pleasant Dr.    From Brynmar Dr. to Fairlane    30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                                                                                 1999-
                           Pauley Court       -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
Farwick Acres                                                                    06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Pauley Court    From 460S to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
Four Mile Hill             Four Mile Hill  From beginning to terminus      30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Rudgate Ln.     From Spring Hill to terminus    30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Spring Hill Ln. From Four Mile Dr. to S.R. 22   30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
Gerber’s Ceramic         Ida Dr.         From U.S. 31 to Ida Dr.         30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Nancy Dr.       From U.S. 31 to Ida Dr.         30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
Green Acres                Calcutta Ct.       —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Crestview Blvd. Beginning to end (at Green      30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Acres Dr.)                            8     73
                           Crestview Ct.      -                         30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Eagle Ct.          -                         30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Eagle Dr.       From Crestview Blvd. to         30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Crestview Blvd.                       8     73
                          Fairway Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Fairway Dr.     From Crestview Blvd. to         30    1973- 8-13-
                                           terminus                              8     73
                          Green Acres Dr. From Sycamore Rd. (00NS) to     30    1973- 8-13-
                                           terminus                              8     73
                          Lakeview Ct.       —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Simmons Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Wedge Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Green Hills Ct.    —                       30    1973- 8-13-
Green Hills                                                                      8     73
                           Wildcat Parkway From U.S. 35 (00NS) to terminus 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Crooked Stick                                         1999-
Greens of the Wildcat      Drive           From 300S to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Main St.        (S.R. 26) beginning to end of   35    1973- 8-13-
                                           town limits                           8     73
                           Meridian St.    From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
Hemlock                                    limits                                8     73
                           Millard St.     From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                           Mulberry St.    From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                                                                                 1999-
                           Becky Court     From Christy Lane to terminus   30    B CC- 2-1-99
Hickory Estates                                                                  06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Christy Lane    From 80N to Becky Court         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
Hidden Acres               Bloom Dr.       From Stone Dr. to Cassell Dr.   30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Cassell Dr.     From Stone Dr. to 50N           30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Stone Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Stone Dr.       From 50N to Cassell Dr.         30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
High Acres                 Doud Dr.        From 50S to 300W                30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
Hillcrest                  Hillcrest Ct.   From Hillcrest Dr. to terminus  30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Hillcrest Dr.   From Sycamore Rd. to Sycamore   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Rd.                                   8     73
Hillsdale                  Hillsdale Ct.      —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Hillsdale Dr.   From Sycamore Rd. (125N) to     30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Pavalion Dr.                          8     73
                          Pavalion Ct.       —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Pavalion Dr.    From Sycamore Rd. (125N) to     30    1973- 8-13-
                                           terminus                              8     73
                          Ridge Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Ridge Rd.       From Sycamore Rd. (125N) to     30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Sycamore Rd.                          8     73
                           Bryan St.       From Carmelita Blvd. to Holiday 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           St.                                   8     73
Holiday Hills                                                                    1999-
                           Blue Spruce     From Mill Street to terminus    30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Carmelita Blvd. From 250S (Alto Rd.) to         30    1973- 8-13-
                                           terminus                              8     73
                                                                                 1999-
                           Chris Court        -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                          Holiday St.     From Oxford St. to terminus     30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                                           From Carmelita Boulevard to           1999-
                           Mill Street     Libery Street                   30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Mill Court         -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Oxford St.      From Carmelita Blvd. to Holiday 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           St.                                   8     73
                          Revere St.      From Carmelita Blvd. to Holiday 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           St.                                   8     73
Indian Heights             Algonquin Trail From Mohawk Dr. to Wea Dr.      30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Arrowhead Blvd. From 300S to Council Ring Blvd. 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Arrow St.       From Arrowhead Blvd. to         30    1973- 8-13-
                                           terminus                              8     73
                          Birch Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Brave Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Buckskin Ct.       —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Buckskin Dr.    From Miami Blvd. to Tomahawk    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Blvd.                                 8     73
                          Canoe St.       From Miami Blvd. to Tomahawk    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Blvd.                                 8     73
                          Chippawa Ln.    From Wea Dr. to Council Ring    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Blvd.                                 8     73
                          Council Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Council Ring    From S.R. 26 (400S) to          30    1973- 8-13-
                           Blvd.           Arrowhead Blvd.                       8     73
                          Flint Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Flintway        From Arrowhead Blvd. to         30    1973- 8-13-
                                           terminus                              8     73
                          Kickapoo Dr.    Council Ring Blvd. to Council   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Ring Blvd.                            8     73
                          Kiowa St.       From Arrowhead Blvd. to Seneca  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Blvd.                                 8     73
                          Lance Dr.       From Wea Dr. to Council Ring    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Blvd.                                 8     73
                          Long Bow Dr.    From Miami Blvd. to Tomahawk    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Blvd.                                 8     73
                          Maumee Dr.      From Arrowhead Blvd. to         30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Tomahawk Blvd.                        8     73
                          Mendota Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Mendota Dr.     From Maumee Dr. to Monona Dr.   30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Menomonee Ct.      —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Menomonee Dr.   From Miami Blvd. to Tomahawk    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Blvd.                                 8     73
                          Miami Blvd.     From Arrowhead Blvd. to Council 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Ring Blvd.                            8     73
                          Miami Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Moccasin Trail  From Chippawa Ln. to Peace Pipe 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
                          Mohawk Dr.      From Wea Dr. to Algonquin Trail 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Monona Dr.      From Seneca Trail to Maumee Dr. 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Ojibway Dr.     From Mohawk Dr. to Mohawk Dr.   30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Oswego St.         —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Papoose St.     From Arrowhead Blvd. to         30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Algonquin Trail                       8     73
                          Peace Pipe Dr.  From Council Ring Blvd. to      30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Tepee Dr.                             8     73
                          Peshewa Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Ring Ct.           —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Scout St.       From Council Ring Blvd. to      30    1973- 8-13-
                                           terminus                              8     73
                          Seneca Trail    From Maumee Dr. to Monona Dr.   30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Tepee Dr.       From Chippawa Ln. to Council    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Ring Blvd.                            8     73
                          Tomahawk Blvd.  From 00EW - U.S. 31 - to        30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Council Ring Blvd.                    8     73
                          Treaty Ln.      From Wigwam Dr. to Council Ring 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Blvd.                                 8     73
                          Tribal St.      From Wea Dr. to Council Ring    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Blvd.                                 8     73
                          Wampum Dr.      From Treaty Ln. to Wigwam Dr.   30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Waubesa Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Waubesa Way     Council Ring Blvd. to Council   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Ring Blvd.                            8     73
                          Wea Dr.         From Mohawk Dr. to Tomahawk     30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Blvd.                                 8     73
                          Wigwam Ct.         —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Wigwam Dr.      Lance Dr. to Council Ring Blvd. 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Wingra Ct.         —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
Ivy Hills                  Brown Ave.      From Princeton Dr. to Webster   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           St.                                   8     73
                          Dartmouth Ct.      —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Duke Ct.           —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Duke Dr.        From Princeton Dr. to Webster   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           St.                                   8     73
                          Harvard Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Harvard Dr.     From Yale Blvd. to Yale Blvd.   30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Ivy Ct.            —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Ivy Dr.         From Princeton Dr. to Webster   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           St.                                   8     73
                          Princeton Ct.      —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Princeton Dr.   From Yale Blvd. to terminus     30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Webster St.     From subdivision limit          30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Yale Blvd.      From S.R. 26 (400S) to Webster  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           St.                                   8     73
                          Yale Ct.           —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Bridge St.      From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                           First St.       From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                           Locus St.       From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
Jerome                     Main St.        From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                           Second St.      From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                           Third St.       From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                           Walnut St.      From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                           Gladstone                                             1999-
                           Avenue          From 200N to Sandstone Avenue   30    B CC- 2-1-99
Judson West                                                                      06
                           Sandstone       From Gladstone Avenue to              1999-
                           Avenue          terminus                        30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
Lakeside                   Lakeside Court     -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Lakewood Court     -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
Lakewood                                                                         06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Lakewood Drive  From 50N to terminus            30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
Lawndale                   Elva Dr.        From subdivision limits to      30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Boulevard (100S)                      8     73
                          Fennie Lee Dr.  From Dixon Rd. (200W) to Elva   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
Lonestar                   Lone Star Ct.      —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                                                                                 1999-
                           Camenich Court  From 200E to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
Majestic                                                                         06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Regal Run Court From 200E to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Clay Ln.        From Mayfield Dr. to terminus   30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
Mayfield Rolling Acres     Mayfield Dr.    From 350W to North Parkway      30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           North Parkway   From subdivision limits to      30    1973- 8-13-
                                           terminus                              8     73
                                                                                 1999-
                           Glenmoor Way    From Wexmoor Drive to terminus  30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Chippendale                                           1999-
                           Lane            From 200W to Glenmoor Way       30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Glenmoor Court     -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Bramoor Court      -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
Moors of Chippendale                                                             06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Bramoor Drive   From Wexmoor Drive to terminus  30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                           From Bramoor Drive to Glenmoor        1999-
                           Wexmoor Drive   Drive                           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Nottingham Lane From 100W to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Golf Course                                           1999-
                           Lane            From 100W to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
New London                 Church St.      From High St. to town limits    30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          High St.        From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          London St.      From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Main St. (750W) From High St. to town limits    30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Market St.      From High St. to terminus at    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           town limits                           8     73
                          Mill St.        From Market St. to end of town  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Peru St.        From High St. to terminus at    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           town limits                           8     73
                          Walnut St.      From Market St. to end of town  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
Oakford                    First St.       From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Main St. (S.R.  From beginning to end of town   35    1973- 8-13-
                           26)             limits                                8     73
                          North St.       From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Second St.      From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Sycamore St.    From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
Orleans Southwest -        Berwick Dr.     From Dixon Rd. (200W) to Elva   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
First Edition              Chateau Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Dauphine Ct.       —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Elva Dr.        From Boulevard (100S) to        30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Berwick Dr.                           8     73
Orleans Southwest -        St. Louis Ct.      —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Versailles Ct.     —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Versailles Dr.  From Boulevard (100S) to Elva   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
                          Westover Ct.       —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          West St. Louis  From Boulevard (100S) to        30    1973- 8-13-
                           Dr.             Berwick Dr.                           8     73
Orleans Southwest -        Anjou Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
Second Addition            Baton Rouge Dr. From Elva Dr. to Versailles Dr. 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Beauvoir Ct.       —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Burgundy Dr.    From Rouge Dr. to terminus      30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Carmelita Blvd. From Boulevard (100S) to        30    1973- 8-13-
                                           terminus                              8     73
                          Elva Dr.        From Burgundy Dr. to            30    1973- 8-13-
                                           subdivision limits                    8     73
                          Marne Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Renoir Ct.         —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Rouge Dr.       From Baton Rouge Dr. to         30    1973- 8-13-
                                           terminus                              8     73
                          St. Dennis Ct.     —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Versailles Dr.  From Elva Dr. to Boulevard      30    1973- 8-13-
                                           (100S)                                8     73
                           Great Pumpkin   From 100S to its terminus       30    1973- 8-13-
                           Ln.                                                   8     73
                           Pumpkin Leaf    From Great Pumpkin Ln. to Ruhl  30    1973- 8-13-
Pumpkin Vine Meadows       Dr.             Rd.                                   8     73
                           Pumpkin Vine    From Great Pumpkin Ln. to Ruhl  30    1973- 8-13-
                           Dr.             Rd.                                   8     73
                           Ruhl Rd.        From 100S to its terminus       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Ruhl Garden                                           1999-
                           Drive           From 400E to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Rulh Garden                                           1999-
                           Court              -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
Ruhl Garden                                                                      06
                           Ruhl Meadow                                           1999-
                           Court              -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Melanie Court      -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
Sonesta Bay                Bay Shore Drive From 50N to terminus            30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
Southdowns                 Southdowns Dr.  From S.R. 26 (400S) to U.S. 31  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           (00EW)                                8     73
Southwood                  Orleans Dr.     From 300S to terminus           30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                                                                                 1999-
                           Ginger Court       -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
Spice Run                  Nutmeg Lane     From Cinnamon Trace to terminus 30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Cinnamon Trace  From Hickory Lane to terminus   30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Springdale                                            1999-
                           Drive           From 300S to 300S               30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Spring Grove    From Springdale Drive to              1999-
Springdale                 Drive           Springdale Drive                30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Springdale                                            1999-
                           Court              -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
Stonybrook                 Beechwood Ln.   From Southway Blvd. (200S) to   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Grey Twig Dr.                         8     73
                          Bittersweet Ln. From Eastbrook Dr. to terminus  30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Briarwood Ct.      —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Eastbrook Dr.   From Grey Twig Dr. to           30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Bittersweet Ln.                       8     73
                          Grey Twig Dr.   From Willow Springs Rd. to      30    1973- 8-13-
                                           terminus                              8     73
                          Hawthorne Ln.   From Grey Twig Dr. to Eastbrook 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
                          Willow Springs  From Grey Twig Dr. to           30    1973- 8-13-
                           Rd.             Bittersweet Ln.                       8     73
Sugar Maple Hills          Sugar Maple Dr. From 100N to 400W               30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                                                                                 1999-
                           Sugar Mill Road From 550W to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
Sugar Mill                                                                       06
                           Sugar Mill                                            1999-
                           Court              -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Meadow Run                                            1999-
                           Court              -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Meadow Run                                            1999-
                           Drive           From 100S to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
Sugar Mill Farms                                                                 06
                           Windy Hill                                            1999-
                           Court              -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Windy Hill Road From 100S to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
Sycamore                   Garfield St.    From Main St. to terminus at    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           town limits                           8     73
                           Main St.        From Railroad St. to terminus   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           at town limits                        8     73
                           North St.       From Main St. to terminus at    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           town limits                           8     73
                           Perry St.       From Railroad St. to terminus   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           at town limits                        8     73
Sycamore (Cont’d)        Railroad St.    From Main St. to Perry St.      30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Washington St.  From Main St. to terminus at    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           town limits                           8     73
                           Tall Oaks                                             1999-
                           Boulevard       From 300W to Tall Oaks Drive    30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                           From White Oaks Court to Red          1999-
                           Tall Oaks Drive Oaks Court                      30    B CC- 2-1-99
Tall Oaks                                                                        06
                           White Oaks                                            1999-
                           Court              -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Red Oaks Court     -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
Tarrytown Estates          Barnett Ave.    From 500S to terminus           30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Elizabeth Ln.   From Barnett Ave. to terminus   30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Zelpha Ln.      From 500S to terminus           30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
Terrace Gardens            Dellwood Dr.    From Terrace Dr. to Westmoor    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
                          Field Dr.       From Mayfield Dr. to Mayfield   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
                          Garden Pl.      From Mayfair Dr. to Mayfair Dr. 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Mayfair Dr.     From Garden Pl. to Garden Pl.   30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Reed Rd.        From Terrace Dr. to subdivision 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Terrace Dr.     From Reynolds Dr. to U.S. 31    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           By-Pass                               8     73
                          Westmoor Dr.    From Terrace Dr. to Dellwood    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
Terrace Meadows            Alameda Blvd.   From Alto Rd. (250S) to         30    1973- 8-13-
                                           subdivision limits                    8     73
                          Canyon Dr.      From Southway Blvd. to Melody   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Ln.                                   8     73
                          Carson Ct.         —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Honey Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Honey Ln.       From Susan Dr. to Kirk’s Row  30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Kirk’s Row    From Albright Rd. (100E) to     30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Honey Ln.                             8     73
                          Linda Dr.       From Orleans Dr. to Tulip Ln.   30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Marsha Ct.         —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Marsha Dr.      From Orleans Dr. to Alto Rd.    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           (250S)                                8     73
                          Melody Ct.         —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Melody Ln.      From Orleans Dr. to Melody Ln.  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           (circles back and intersects)         8     73
                          Orleans Dr.     From Alto Rd. (250S) to         30    1973- 8-13-
                                           subdivision limits                    8     73
                          Pamela Ct.         —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Red Bud Ln.     From Linda Dr. to Alameda Blvd. 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Susan Ct.          -                         30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Susan Dr.       From Southway Blvd. to Kirk’s 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Row                                   8     73
                           Tally Ho Ct.       -                         30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Tally Ho Dr.    From Albright Rd. (100E) to     30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Williams Dr.                          8     73
                          Terrace Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Tulip Ln.       From Alto Rd. (250S) to Alameda 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Blvd.                                 8     73
                          Williams Ct.       —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Williams Dr.    From Southway Blvd. to Tally Ho 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
Timber Valley              Timber Valley      —                       30    1995- 1-30-
                           Dr.                                                   5     95
                                           From Timber Valley Drive to           1999-
                           Foxfire Lane    terminus                        30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Timber Court       -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Timber Ridge                                          1999-
Timber Valley of Woodhaven Court              -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Timber Valley                                         1999-
                           Court              -                         30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Timber Valley                                         1999-
                           Drive           From 300S to 400S (SR 26)       30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
Titus                      Alta Ln.        From Yale Blvd. to Webster St.  30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Hillsdale Dr.   From S.R. 26 (400S) to Alta Ln. 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
Urbandale                  Carolyn Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                8     73
                          Covey Ln.       From 300W to terminus           30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                8     73
                          Ginny Dr.       From 50S to Stoneview Dr.       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                          Gordon Ct.         —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Gordon Dr.      From Covey Ln. to Stoneview Dr. 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Stoneview Dr.   From Covey Ln. to 300W          30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                                                                                 1999-
Vineyard                   Branch Court    From 200E to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Bruce Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Cedar Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Cypress Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Oak Ct.            —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Oakhurst Dr.    From Webster St. to Southlea    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
                           Oakmont Dr.     From Southway Blvd. to Oakhurst 30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Dr.                                   8     73
Vinton Woods               Maple Ct.          —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Redwood Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Redwood Dr.     From Southlea Dr. to Webster    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           St.                                   8     73
                           Southlea Dr.    From Southway Blvd. to terminus 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Victor Ct.         —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Webster Ct.        —                       30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Webster St.     From Southway Blvd. to terminus 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Hunter’s Cove                                       1999-
                           Drive           From 200W to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
Walnut Estates (Hunter’s Valley View                                           1999-
Cove)                      Drive           From 200W to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Meadow View     From Valley View Drive to             1999-
                           Drive           terminus                        30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 2004- 12-6-
                           Foxfire Lane       —                       30    BCC-  04
Walnut Estates (Section                                                          44
18)                                                                              2004- 12-6-
                           Foxhaven Drive     —                       30    BCC-  04
                                                                                 44
                                                                                 1999-
                           Cameron Drive   From 200S to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
Walton Lake                Kerri Lynn Lane From Cameron Drive to terminus  30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Walton Lake     From Kerri Lynn Lane to               1999-
                           Drive           terminus                        30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Walton Way      From 200E to terminus           30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Lance Court        —                       30    B CC- 2-1-99
Walton Woods                                                                     06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Kelly Court        —                       30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                                                                                 1999-
                           Kristin Lane    From Walton Way to terminus     30    B CC- 2-1-99
                                                                                 06
                           Artesian Dr.       —                       30    1997- 9-15-
                                                                                 39    97
                           Enclave Ct.        —                       30    1997- 9-15-
                                                                                 39    97
Water’s Edge             Lamplighter Ln.    —                       30    1997- 9-15-
                                                                                 39    97
                           Pine Ridge Dr.     —                       30    1997- 9-15-
                                                                                 39    97
                           Waterview Way      —                       30    1997- 9-15-
                                                                                 39    97
West Middleton             High St. (250S) From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Hobson St.      From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                          Rabbit St.      From beginning to end of town   30    1973- 8-13-
                                           limits                                8     73
                           Birchwood Dr.   From Columbus Blvd. to Hickory  30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Ln.                                   8     73
                           Columbus Blvd.  From beginning to terminus      30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Hickory Ln.     From Jefferson Rd. (100N) to    30    1973- 8-13-
                                           terminus                              8     73
Westpoint                  Parkwood Dr.    From beginning to terminus      30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Pinoak Dr.      From Columbus Blvd. to terminus 30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Rosewood Dr.    From Pinoak Dr. to Hickory Ln.  30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Willow Dr.      From Hickory Ln. to terminus    30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Cottonwood Dr.  From beginning to terminus      30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Jeff Ct.           -                         30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Jeff Dr.        From Cottonwood Dr. to          30    1973- 8-13-
                                           Cottonwood Dr.                        8     73
Windwood Park              Windwood Dr.    From 480W to Cottonwood Dr.     30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Windy Ct.          -                         30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Woodcliff Ct.      -                         30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
                           Woodcliff Dr.   From Windwood Dr. to Jeff Dr.   30    1973- 8-13-
                                                                                 8     73
 
   (C)   Speed limits on other county roads. Whoever violates any of the
following speed limits shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not more
than $2,500.
SPEED LIMITS ON OTHER COUNTY ROADS
Street Location Speed Limit (mph) Ord. No. Date Passed
SPEED LIMITS ON OTHER COUNTY ROADS
Street           Location          Speed Limit (mph) Ord. No.       Date Passed
                 Between its
Albright Rd.     intersection with 40                1975-7         3-10-75
                 Lincoln Rd. and
                 250S
                 From its
                 intersection with
Alto Rd. (250S)  100W to its       50                1974-2         1-14-74
                 intersection with
                 400W
                 From its
                 intersection with
                500W to its       50                1974-2         1-14-74
                 intersection with
                 750W
Amber Ln.        From Gary Lee Ln. 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 to Brookside Dr.
                 From Jeffrey Ln.
Anna Ln.         to the end of     30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Anna Ln.
                 Southbound lane -
                 from 640 feet
Apperson Way     south of 300N     30                1974-2         1-14-74
                 south to Kokomo
                 city limits
                 From U.S. 31 to
                North Washington  50                1974-2         1-14-74
                 St.
                 From North
                 Washington St.
                south to a point  50                1974-2         1-14-74
                 640 feet south of
                 300N
                 Boulevard St. -
                From the Kokomo   55                1974-2         1-14-74
                 city limits to
                 600E
                 From Bramoor Dr.
Bramoor Ct.      to the end of     30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Bramoor Ct.
Brookshire Dr.   From 250S to      30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Woodfield Dr.
Brookside Dr.    From 350W to      30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Michael Dr.
                 From 200S to the
Cameron Dr.      end of Cameron    30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Dr.
                 From Lynn Dr. to
Carol Rd.        the end of Carol  30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Rd.
Chippendale Ln.  From 200W to Glen 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Moor Way
                 From its
                 intersection with
Chippawa         Tepee Dr. and Wea 25 (when children 1996-14        3-4-96
                 Dr. (Indian       present)
                 Heights School
                 Zone)
Christopher Dr.  From Lyons Dr. to 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Rolland Dr.
                 From 350W to the
Cinnamon Trace   end of Cinnamon   30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Trace
                 Between its
Colored Pike     intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
(300N)           300N and 350N
                 (250W)
                 From its
                 intersection with
Davis Rd.        300N to the       45                1997-30        7-7-97
                 Kokomo city
                 limits
                 From Michael Dr.
Deanna Dr.       to the end of     30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Deanna Dr.
East Sycamore    From the Kokomo   30 (25 when
St.              city limits to    children present) 1973-8         8-13-73
                 U.S. 31 By-Pass
                 From Lynn Dr. to
Edward Dr.       the end of Edward 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Dr.
                 From Edward Dr.
Emily Ct.        to the end of     30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Emily Ct.
Gary Lee Dr.     From 350W to      30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Brookside Dr.
                 From Glen Moor
Glen Moor Ct.    Dr. to the end of 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Glen Moor Ct.
                 From Bramoor Dr.
Glen Moor Way    to the end of     30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Glen Moor Way
                 From 100W to the
Golf Course Ln.  end of Golf       30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Course Ln.
                 From Southway
                 Blvd. to 1,000
Goyer Rd.        feet south of     45                1973-8         8-13-73
                 Markland Ave.
                 (S.R. 22)
                 From Boulevard    35 (25 when
                St. to Water      children present) 1973-8         8-13-73
                 Works Rd. (50N)
                 From Southway
                Blvd. to          45                1973-8         8-13-73
                 Boulevard St.
                 From Markland     25 (when children
                Ave. north to     present)          1989-28        11-27-89
                 Arnold St.
Hidden Valley    Entire length of  30                2002-53        11-4-02
Rd.              Hidden Valley Rd.
                 From Kokomo city
Jefferson Rd.    limits west to    45                1975-7         3-10-75
                 S.R. 22
                 From 250S to the
Jeffrey Ln.      end of Jeffrey    30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Ln.
                 From Cameron Dr.
Kerri Lynn Ln.   to the end of     30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Kerri Lynn Ln.
                 From Michael Dr.
Lisa Ct.         to the end of     30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Lisa Ct.
                 From Lynn Dr. to
Lynn Ct.         the end of Lynn   30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Ct.
Lynn Dr.         From 200E to the  30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 end of Lynn Dr.
                 From McKibben Dr.
Lyons Dr.        to Christopher    30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Dr.
McKibben Dr.     From 300S to      30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Christopher Dr.
                 From 300S to the
Michael Dr.      end of Michael    30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Dr.
                 From 100W to the
Nottingham Dr.   end of Nottingham 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Dr.
                 From Cinnamon
Nutmeg Ln.       Trace to the end  30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 of Nutmeg Ln.
                 From McKibben Dr.
Oliene Dr.       to the end of     30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Oliene Dr.
                 From Rolland Dr.
Opal Ct.         to the end of     30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Opal Ct.
                 From its
Park Rd.         intersection of   40                1974-2         1-14-74
                 Lincoln Rd. to
                 Alto Rd. (250S)
                 From Timber
Pond View Ct.    Valley Dr. to the 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 end of Pond View
                 Ct.
                 From Timber
Pond View Dr.    Valley Dr. to the 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 end of Pond View
                 Dr.
                 From McKibben Dr.
Rolland Dr.      to Christopher    30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Dr.
                 Between Albright
Southway Blvd.   Rd. and the       35                1980-17        8-18-80
East             eastern Kokomo
                 city limits
                 From Springdale
Springdale Ct.   Dr. to the end of 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Springdale Ct.
Springdale Dr.   Entire length of  30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Springdale Dr.
Spring Grove Dr. Entire length of  30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Spring Grove Dr.
                 From Sugar Mill
Sugar Mill Ct.   Rd. to the end of 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Sugar Mill Ct.
                 From 560W to the
Sugar Mill Rd.   end of Sugar Mill 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Rd.
                 Between its
Sycamore Rd.     intersection with 45                1975-27        12-22-75
                 Kokomo city
                 limits and 200E
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 200E and 400E
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 400E and 500E
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 500E and 600E
                 From S.R. 22
                (west) to         40                1977-88        1-31-77
                 Sycamore Rd.
                 (00NS) and 600W
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 600W and 800W
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 800W and 900W
                 Between its
                 intersection with
Tepee Dr.        Peace Pipe Dr.    25 (when children 1996-14        3-4-96
                 and Chippawa      present)
                 (Indian Heights
                 School Zone)
                 From Timber
Timber Ridge Ct. Valley Dr. to the 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 end of Timber
                 Ridge Ct.
Timber Valley    From 300S to the
Dr.              end of Timber     30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Valley Dr.
                 From Kerri Lynn
Walton Lake Dr.  Ln. to the end of 30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Walton Lake Dr.
                 Between Apperson
                 Way and the       50                1974-2         1-14-74
                 Kokomo city
                 limits
Washington St.   From the
                 intersection of
                 Gerhart St. to    40                2001-54        12-3-01
                 500 feet north of
                 300N (Smith Road)
                 From the
                intersection of   45                2001-54        12-3-01
                 300N to 00EW
West Markland    From Berkley Rd.
Ave.             (150W) to Dixon   35                1973-8         8-13-73
                 Rd. (200W)
                 From Bramoor Dr.
Wexmoor Dr.      to the end of     30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Bramoor Ct.
                 From its
Wigwam Dr.       intersection with 25 (when children 1996-14        3-4-96
                 Treaty Ln. and    present)
                 Lance Dr.
Woodfield Dr.    Entire length of  30                1992-36        10-26-92
                 Woodfield Dr.
Zartman Rd.      Between Dixon Rd. 40                2004-          12-6-04
                 and Berkley Rd.                     BCC-43
                 Between its
00EW             intersection with 45                2001-54        12-3-01
                 Washington Street
                 and U.S. 31
                 Between its
00NS             intersection with 45                1989-22        10-16-89
                 750W and 900W
                 Between its
50E              intersection with 55                1977-88        1-31-77
                 300N and 450N
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 450N and 600N
                 Between its
                intersection with 40                —            9-25-89
                 S.R. 26 and 500S
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1996-22        4-15-96
                 U.S. 31 South and
                 600N
                 Between 125E
                 Kokomo city       45                1975-27        12-22-75
50N              limits and 300E
                 Between its
                 intersection with 50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 300E and 800E
50S              850E and the      20                1999-BC C-05   2-1-99
                 Wildcat Bridge
                 Between its
80W              intersection with 55                1977-88        1-31-77
                 300N and 450N
                 Between its
100E             intersection with 40                1977-88        1-31-77
                 300N to 200N
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 550N to 600N
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 500S and 400S
                 Between the town
100N             limits of         50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 Sycamore East and
                 1400E
                 Between 600E and
                the town limits   55                1975-27        12-22-75
                 of Sycamore West
                 Between U.S. 31
                 By-Pass to
                western- most     40                1990-12        4-2-90
                 intersection of
                 Hillcrest Dr.
                 Between its
100S             intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 200W and 300W
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 300W and 500W
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 750W and 680W
                 Between its
                 intersection with
100W             north city limits 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 of Kokomo and
                 300N
                 Between its
                intersection with 55                1977-88        1-31-77
                 450N and 600N
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 500S and 300S
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 300S and 250S
                 Between its
120E             intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 400S and 300S
                 (90E)
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 300S and 250S
                 (115E)
                 Between its
                 intersection with
130E             north city limits 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 of Kokomo and
                 400N (185E)
                 Between its
150E (500S)      intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 500S and 400S
                 (120E)
                 Between its
150N             intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 310N and 600N
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1990-13        4-2-90
                 250E and 400E
                 Between its
160E (400S)      intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 400S and 300S
                 (120E)
                 Between its
200E             intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 300S and 00NS
                 Between 2005
200W (Dixon Rd.) (Zartman Rd.) and 45                1983-13        3-21-83
                 Westdale Ct.
                 Between its
250S             intersection with 35                2001-52        11-5-01
                 100W and the city
                 limits of Kokomo
                 Between its
                 intersection with
                 115E and east     40                1977-88        1-31-77
                 city limits of
                 Kokomo
                 From the
                 intersection of
                 Cartwright Dr.
                 and 250S to the   35                1999-44        11-1-99
                 intersection at
                 Alameda Dr. and
                 250S
                 Between 1,750
                 feet south of     25 (when children
300E             400N to 3,250     present)          1989-25        10-30-89
                 feet south of
                 400N
                 Between its
                intersection with 55                1977-88        1-31-77
                 600N and 00NS
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 00NS and 200S
                 Between its
                 intersection with
                200S and north    45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 town limits of
                 Center
                 Between its
300N             intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 150E and U.S. 31
                 By-Pass
                 Between its
                 intersection with
                U.S. 31 By-Pass   45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 and Washington
                 St.
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 Washington St and
                 100W (U.S. 35)
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 100W (U.S. 35)
                 and 140W
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 300W and 800W
                 Between its       50 (25 when
                intersection with children present) 1977-88        1-31-77
                 800W and 900W
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 900W and 1000W
                 From its
                intersection with 45                1996-23        4-15-96
                 50W (Webster) and
                 Touby Pike
                 From its
                intersection with 50                1996-52        9-3-96
                 200W and 50W
                 From its
                intersection with 50                1996-53        9-3-96
                 250W and 200W
                 Between its
                intersection with 40                2002-11        3-4-02
                 50W and 00EW
                 Between its
300S             intersection with 40                1977-88        1-31-77
                 00EW (U.S. 31)
                 and 50E
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 50E and 200E
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                2001-52        11-5-01
                 100W and 00EW
                 Between its
                 intersection with
                200E and west     55                1977-88        1-31-77
                 city limits of
                 Center
                 Between its
                intersection with 55                1977-88        1-31-77
                 400E and 500E
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1992-34        10-26-92
                 100W and 200W
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1992-30        10-19-92
                 200W and 350W
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 350W and 00EW
                 (U.S. 31)
                 Between its
300W             intersection with 50                2001-37        7-16-01
                 80N and 50S
                 To the railroad
330S             track south of    30                BCC 2009-07    3-6-06
                 State Road 26
                 Northwestern
                 school zone -     25 (when children
350N             from 400W to      present)          1988-9         6-20-88
                 1,396 feet west
                 on 350N
                 Between its
350W             intersection with 45                1992-31        10-19-92
                 250S and 400S
                 Between the town
400N             limits of Plevna  55                1975-27        12-22-75
                 East and 1350E
                 Between its
                intersection with 55                1975-27        12-22-75
                 50E and 180E
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 180E and 400E
                 Between 400E and
                the town limits   55                1975-27        12-22-75
                 of Plevna West
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 1000W and 480W
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1975-27        12-22-75
                 1300W and 1000W
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 1350E and 1400E
                 From the point
                 1,860 feet south
                of C.R. 400 North 35                2015- BCCO- 25 8-17-15
                 to that point
                 3,120 feet south
                 of C.R. 400 North
                 Between 00NS
400E             (S.R. 22 and 35)  40                1975-27        12-22-75
                 and Sycamore Rd.
                 (120N)
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1975-27        12-22-75
                 120N (Sycamore
                 Rd.) and 300N
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1975-27        12-22-75
                 300N and 400N
                 Between 400S
                (S.R. 26) and     50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 00NS (S.R. 22 and
                 35)
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 500S and 400S
                 (S.R. 26)
                 Between 350N to   25 (when children
400W             900 feet south of present)          1989-24        10-30-89
                 350N
                 Between 350N to   35 (when children
                2,175 feet north  present)          1989-24        10-30-89
                 of 350N
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 600N and 300N
                 Between its
                intersection with 55                1977-88        1-31-77
                 300N and 100N
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 50S and 200S
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 250S and 500S
                 From its
450N             intersection with 45                1996-21        4-15-96
                 U.S. 31 and 200E
                 Between its
450W             intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 350N and 400N
                 (480W)
                 Between its
500E             intersection with 50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 50N and 120N
                 Between its
                intersection with 50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 120N and 500N
                 Between its
                intersection with 55                1975-27        12-22-75
                 500N and 600N
                 From that point
                 475 feet orth of
500 N            C.R. 500 North to 35                2015- BCCO- 25 8-17-15
                 that point 1,365
                 feet north of
                 C.R. 500 North
                 Between its
500W             intersection with 35                1977-88        1-31-77
                 80S and 50S
                 Between 400S/
580W             State Road 26 and 50                BCC 2007-21    6-4-07
                 500S
                 Between its
590W             intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 200S and 250S
                 Between its
600W             intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 140S and 200s
                 Between its       40 (25 when
                intersection with children present) 1977-88        1-31-77
                 250S and 350S
                 Between its
680W             intersection with 45                1977-88        1-31-77
                 80S and 175S
                 From Russiaville
750W             city limits to    50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 New London town
                 limits
                 From New London
                town limits to    55                1975-27        12-22-75
                 120N (S.R. 22)
                 Between its
                intersection with 55                1975-27        12-22-75
                 100N (S.R. 22)
                 and 400N
                 Between its
                 intersection with
                700S to           55                1975-27        12-22-75
                 Russiaville city
                 limits
                 Between 100N and
775E             Greentown city    35                1975-27        12-22-75
                 limits (50N -
                 800E)
                 Between Plevna
800E             South town limits 50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 and 100N
                 Between its
                intersection with 55                1975-27        12-22-75
                 50S and 400S
                 Between its
                intersection with 45                1975-27        12-22-75
                 400S and 500S
                 Between its
                intersection with 55                1975-27        12-22-75
                 600N and Plevna
                 North town limits
                 Between its
                 intersection with
850E             400N and north    55                1977-88        1-31-77
                 city limits of
                 Greentown
                 Between its
                 intersection with
                south city limits 50                1977-88        1-31-77
                 of Greentown and
                 110S
                 Between Greentown
900E             North city limits 50                1975-27        12-22-75
                 and 600N
                 Between its
1350E            intersection with 55                1975-27        12-22-75
                 00NS and 600N
 
(`83 Code, Ch. 71, Sched. I)
SCHEDULE III: STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop intersections. Stop signs shall be erected as appropriate at the
following intersections:
STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street Description Ord. No. Date Passed
STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street          Description                               Ord. No. Date Passed
Bradley Rd.     Stop before entering West Deffenbaugh Rd. 1964-1   3-2-64
Buck Lane Rd.   Stop before entering Deer Creek Rd.       1996-51  9-3-96
Doud Dr.        Stop before entering West Deffenbaugh Rd. 1964-1   3-2-64
               Stop at Malfalfa                          1964-1   3-2-64
Rudgate Ln.     Stop for Spring Hill Rd.                  1969-9   8-11-69
Spring Hill Ln. Stop for Four Mile Dr.                    1969-9   8-11-69
               Stop for S.R. 22                          1969-9   8-11-69
 
   (B)   Preferential stop intersections. Stop signs shall be erected as
appropriate at the following intersections:
      (1)   Preferential stop intersections in certain subdivisions.
PREFERENTIAL STOP INTERSECTIONS IN CERTAIN SUBDIVISIONS
Subdivision Preferential Street Intersecting Street Ord. No Date Passed
PREFERENTIAL STOP INTERSECTIONS IN CERTAIN SUBDIVISIONS
Subdivision       Preferential       Intersecting       Ord. No     Date Passed
                  Street             Street
Boulders West     Boulders Way       Grey Rock Ln.      1997-13     4-7-97
                 Boulders Way       Red Rock Ct.       1997-13     4-7-97
                 Granite Dr.        Grey Rock Ln.      1997-13     4-7-97
                 Granite Dr.        Kody Ct.           1997-13     4-7-97
                 100S (Boulevard)   Boulders Way       1997-13     4-7-97
                 100S (Boulevard)   Granite Dr.        1997-13     4-7-97
Breezy Hills      Sycamore Rd.       East Breezy Ln.    1971-8      7-19-71
                 Sycamore Rd.       West Breezy Ln.    1971-8      7-19-71
Breezy Woods      100S               Breezy Way Dr.     1971-8      7-19-71
                 400W               Breezy Way Dr.     1971-8      7-19-71
Brookshire        Christopher Dr.    McKibben Dr.       1997-13     4-7-97
                 McKibben Dr.       Lyons Dr.          1997-13     4-7-97
                 McKibben Dr.       Oliene Dr.         1997-13     4-7-97
                 McKibben Dr.       Rolland Dr.        1997-13     4-7-97
                 Rolland Dr.        Christopher Dr.    1997-13     4-7-97
                 300S (Center Rd.)  Mckibben Dr.       1997-13     4-7-97
Brookshire        Brookshire Dr.     Woodfield Dr.      1997-13     4-7-97
Estates
                 250S (Alto Rd.     Brookshire Dr.     1997-13     4-7-97
                  Brookside Dr.      Amber Ln.          1980-2      2-19-80
                  Brookside Dr.      Gary Lee Dr.       1980-2      2-19-80
                  Gary Lee Dr.       Amber Ln.          1980-2      2-19-80
                  Michael Dr.        Brookside Dr.      1980-2      2-19-80
Brookside         Michael Dr.        Deanna Ln.         1980-2      2-19-80
                  Michael Dr.        Lisa Ct.           1980-2      2-19-80
                  300S               Michael Dr.        1980-2      2-19-80
                  350W               Brookside Dr.      1980-2      2-19-80
                  350W               Gary Lee Dr.       1980-2      2-19-80
Cardinal Point    300E               Quince Ln.         1997-13     4-7-97
                 344E               Quince Ln.         1997-13     4-7-97
Champagne Shores  440W               Lake Shore Dr.     1997-13     4-7-97
PUD
Cloverdale        600E               Cloverdale         1980-2      2-19-80
Cobblestone       Rollingstone Dr.   Bridgestone Circle 2004-BCC-44 12-6-04
Villas
Cotswold Hills    Northampton Dr.    Coventry Dr.       1997-13     4-7-97
                 Northampton Dr.    Lake Windemere Ln. 1997-13     4-7-97
                 Northampton Dr.    Sheffield Circle   1997-13     4-7-97
                 200W (Dixon Rd.)   Northampton Dr.    1997-13     4-7-97
Davis Manor       Edwards Dr.        Emily Ct.          1997-13     4-7-97
                 Lynn Dr.           Carol Ct.          1997-13     4-7-97
                 Lynn Dr.           Edwards Dr.        1997-13     4-7-97
                 Lynn Dr.           Nicole Ct.         1997-13     4-7-97
                 200E (Izaak Walton Lynn Dr.           1997-13     4-7-97
                  Rd.)
Deer Knoll PUD    Deer Creek Rd.     Knoll Wood Ln.     1997-13     4-7-97
                 800E               Deer Creek Rd.     1997-13     4-7-97
Deer Run          00NS (Sycamore     Deer Run           1980-2      2-19-80
                  Rd.)
Derbyshire        Riva Ridge Dr.     Secretariat Circle 1980-2      2-19-80
                 Riva Ridge Dr.     Venetian Way       1980-2      2-19-80
                 Riva Ridge Dr.     Venetian Ct.       1980-2      2-19-80
                 00NS               Venetian Way       1980-2      2-19-80
                 600W               Riva Ridge         1980-2      2-19-80
Devon Woods       Arundel Dr.        Devon Ct.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Arundel Dr.        Stratford Dr. East 1971-8      7-19-71
                 Arundel Dr.        Stratford Dr. West 1971-8      7-19-71
                 North Parkway      Arundel Ct.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 North Parkway      Arundel East       1971-8      7-19-71
                 North Parkway      Arundel West       1971-8      7-19-71
                 North Parkway      Bellvue Pl. East   1971-8      7-19-71
                 North Parkway      Bellvue Pl. West   1971-8      7-19-71
                 North Parkway      Parkway Ct.        1997-13     4-7-97
                 350W               North Parkway      1971-8      7-19-71
Emerald Lake      Emerald Blvd.      Emerald Ct.        1996-64     11-1-96
                 Emerald Ln. Cul-   Emerald Ln.        1996-64     11-1-96
                  De-Sac
                 200W               Emerald Ln.        1996-64     11-1-96
                 300S               Emerald Blvd.      1996-64     11-1-96
Fairview          Lyndenwood Ln.     Fair Ln.           1997-13     4-7-97
                 Pleasant Dr.       Bradley Rd.        1997-13     4-7-97
                 Pleasant Dr.       Brynmar Rd.        1997-13     4-7-97
                 Pleasant Dr.       Fair Ln.           1997-13     4-7-97
                 Pleasant Dr.       Harrison Rd.       1997-13     4-7-97
                 West Boulevard     Brynmar Dr.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 West Deffenbaugh   Bradley Rd.        1971-8      7-19-71
Fairview III      Lyndenwood Ln.     Fair Ln.           1980-2      2-19-80
Flowing Wells     Albright Rd.       Carr Dr.           1980-2      2-19-80
Estates
                 Carr Dr.           Carry Ct.          1980-2      2-19-80
Four Mile Hill    Four Mile Dr.      Spring Hill Rd.    1971-8      7-19-71
                 S.R. 22            Spring Hill Rd.    1971-8      7-19-71
Green Acres       Crestview Blvd.    Fairway Ct.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Crestview Blvd.    Wedge Ct.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Crestview Blvd.    Eagle Dr. North    1971-8      7-19-71
                 Crestview Blvd.    Eagle Dr. South    1971-8      7-19-71
                 Crestview Blvd.    Birdie Ct.         1980-2      2-19-80
                 Crestview Blvd.    Crestview Ct.      1980-2      2-19-80
                 Eagle Dr.          Eagle Ct.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Fairway Dr.        Por Ct.            1980-2      2-19-80
                 Green Acres Dr.    Bunker Ct.         1980-2      2-19-80
                 Green Acres Dr.    Calcutta Ct.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Green Acres Dr.    Crestview Blvd.    1971-8      7-19-71
                 Green Acres Dr.    Lakeview Ct.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Green Acres Dr.    Simmons Ct.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 West Sycamore Rd.  Green Acres Dr.    1971-8      7-19-71
Hickory Estates   80N (Sycamore Rd.) Christy Ln.        1997-13     4-7-97
Hidden Acres      Cassell Ct.        Bloom Dr.          1997-13     4-7-97
                 Cassell Ct.        Stone Dr.          1997-13     4-7-97
                 Stone Dr.          Bloom Dr.          1997-13     4-7-97
                 50N                Stone Dr.          1997-13     4-7-97
Hidden Harbour    200W (Dixon Rd.)   Harbour Pl.        1997-13     4-7-97
Hillcrest         Hillcrest Dr.      Hillcrest Ct.      1971-8      7-19-71
                                     South
                 Sycamore Rd.       Hillcrest Dr. East 1971-8      7-19-71
                 Sycamore Rd.       Hillcrest Dr. West 1971-8      7-19-71
Hillsdale         East Sycamore Rd.  Hillsdale Dr.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 East Sycamore Rd.  Pavalion Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 East Sycamore Rd.  East Ridge Rd.     1971-8      7-19-71
                 Pavalion Dr.       Hillsdale Ct.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Pavalion Dr.       Hillsdale Dr.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Pavalion Dr.       Pavalion Ct.       1971-8      7-19-71
Holiday Park and  Alto Rd.           Carmelita Blvd.    1971-8      7-19-71
Holiday Hills
                 Carmelita Blvd.    Bryan St.          1997-13     4-7-97
                 Carmelita Blvd.    Chris Ct.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Carmelita Blvd.    Mill St.           1971-8      7-19-71
                 Carmelita Blvd.    Oxford St.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Carmelita Blvd.    Revere St.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Holiday St.        Bryan St.          1997-13     4-7-97
                 Holiday St.        Revere St.         1997-13     4-7-97
                 Mill Ct.           Mill St.           1997-13     4-7-97
                 Mill St.           Blue Spruce St.    1997-13     4-7-97
Indian Heights    Algonquin          Canoe St.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Algonquin          Papoose St.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Arrowhead Blvd.    Brave Ct.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Arrowhead Blvd.    Council Ring Blvd. 1971-8      7-19-71
                 Arrowhead Blvd.    Kiowa              1971-8      7-19-71
                 Arrowhead Blvd.    Maumee Dr.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Arrowhead Blvd.    Miami Ct.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Arrowhead Blvd.    Papoose St.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Arrowhead Blvd.    Peshewa Way        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Arrowhead Blvd.    Flintway           1971-8      7-19-71
                 Buckskin Dr.       Buckskin Ct.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Chippawa Ln.       Moccasin Trail     1971-8      7-19-71
                 Chippawa Ln.       Tepee Dr.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Chippawa Lane      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Council Ct.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Kickapoo Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Lance Dr.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Miami Blvd.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Peace Pipe Dr.     1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Ring Ct.           1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Scout St.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Tepee Dr.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Treaty Ln.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Tribal St.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Waubesa Way East   1975-28     12-22-75
                 Council Ring Blvd. Waubesa Way West   1975-28     12-22-75
                 Council Ring Blvd. Wigwam Dr.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Council Ring Blvd. Kickapoo Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Lance Dr.          Wigwam Dr.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Maumee Dr.         Mendota Dr.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Maumee Dr.         Monona Dr.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Maumee Dr.         Seneca Trail       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Mendota Dr.        Birch Ct.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Mendota Dr.        Mendota Ct.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Menomonee Dr.      Menomonee Ct.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Miami Blvd.        Arrowhead Blvd.    1971-8      7-19-71
                 Miami Blvd.        Canoe St.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Miami Blvd.        Longbow Dr.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Miami Blvd.        Menomonee Dr.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Miami Blvd.        Wea Dr.            1971-8      7-19-71
                 Miami Dr.          Buckskin Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Mohawk Dr.         Ojibway Dr. South  1971-8      7-19-71
                 Monona Dr.         Wingra Ct.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Peace Pipe Dr.     Moccasin Trail     1971-8      7-19-71
                 Seneca Trail       Kiowa              1971-8      7-19-71
                 Seneca Trail       Mendota Dr.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Tepee Dr.          Peace Pipe Dr.     1971-8      7-19-71
                 Tomahawk Blvd.     Maumee Dr.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Tomahawk Blvd.     Buckskin Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Tomahawk Blvd.     Longbow Dr.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Tomahawk Blvd.     Menomonee Dr.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Tomahawk Blvd.     Wea Dr.            1971-8      7-19-71
                 Waubesa Way        Waubesa Way Ct.    1971-8      7-19-71
                 Wea Dr.            Algonquin Trail    1971-8      7-19-71
                 Wea Dr.            Chippawa Ln.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Wea Dr.            Lance Dr.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Wea Dr.            Mohawk Dr.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Wea Dr.            Tribal St.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Wigwam Dr.         Treaty Ln.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Wigwam Dr.         Wampum Dr.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Wigwam Dr.         Wigwam Ct.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 U.S. 31            Tomahawk Blvd.     1971-8      7-19-71
                 S.R. 26            Council Ring Blvd. 1971-8      7-19-71
                 300S               Arrowhead Blvd.    1971-8      7-19-71
                 300S               Council Ring Blvd. 1971-8      7-19-71
Ivy Hills         Alta Ln.           Hillside Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Princeton Dr.      Brown Ave.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Princeton Dr.      Ivy Dr.            1971-8      7-19-71
                 Webster St.        Ivy Dr.            1971-8      7-19-71
                 Yale Blvd.         Webster St.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Yale Blvd.         Alta Ln.           1971-8      7-19-71
                 Yale Blvd.         Dartmouth Ct.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Yale Blvd.         Harvard Dr.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Yale Blvd.         Princeton Dr.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Yale Blvd.         Yale Ct.           1971-8      7-19-71
                 S.R. 26            Hillside Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 S.R. 26            Yale Blvd.         1971-8      7-19-71
Lakeside          600E               Lakeside Ct.       1997-13     4-7-97
Lakeview Ridge    80N (Sycamore Rd.) West Lake Dr.      1997-13     4-7-97
PUD
Lakewood RDP      Lakewood Dr.       Lakewood Ct.       1997-13     4-7-97
                 Lakewood Dr.       Lakewood Pl.       1997-13     4-7-97
                 50N                Lakewood Dr.       1997-13     4-7-97
Lawndale          Elva Dr.           Elaine Ct.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Elva Dr.           Fennie Lee Dr.     1971-8      7-19-71
                 South Dixon Rd.    Fennie Lee Dr.     1971-8      7-19-71
                 West Boulevard St. Elva Dr.           1971-8      7-19-71
Lone Star         400E               Lone Star Ct.      1971-8      7-19-71
Moors of          Bramoor Dr.        Bramoor Ct.        1997-13     4-7-97
Chippendale
                 Bramoor Dr.        Wexmoor Dr. South  1997-13     4-7-97
                 Glenmoor Way       Chippendale Dr.    1997-13     4-7-97
                 Glenmoor Way       Glenmoor Ct.       1997-13     4-7-97
                 Glenmoor Way       Wexmoor Dr. North  1997-13     4-7-97
                 100W (Park Rd.)    Golf Course Ln.    1997-13     4-7-97
                 100W (Park Rd.)    Nottingham Ln.     1997-13     4-7-97
                 200W (Dixon Rd.)   Chippendale Dr.    1997-13     4-7-97
Northview         East Morgan St.    Northview Blvd.    1971-8      7-19-71
                 Northview Blvd.    Primrose Ln.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Northview Blvd.    Sweetwood Dr.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Primrose Ln.       Primrose Ct.       1971-8      7-19-71
Northwest Acres   Hickory Ln.        Coleman Blvd.      1980-2      2-19-80
                 Hickory Ln.        Vega Ave.          1980-2      2-19-80
Orleans Southwest Elva Dr.           Versailles Dr.     1971-8      7-19-71
                 South Dixon Rd.    Berwick Dr.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Versailles Dr.     Versailles Ct.     1971-8      7-19-71
                 Versailles Dr.     Westover Ct.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 West Boulevard     Carmelita Blvd.    1971-8      7-19-71
                 West Boulevard     Elva Dr.           1971-8      7-19-71
                 West Boulevard     Versailles Dr.     1971-8      7-19-71
                 West Boulevard     West St. Louis Dr. 1971-8      7-19-71
                 West St. Louis Dr. Chateau Ct.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 West St. Louis Dr. Dauphine Ct.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 West St. Louis Dr. St. Louis Ct.      1971-8      7-19-71
Redbird Park      West Deffenbaugh   Redbird Ct.        1971-8      7-19-71
                  St.
Ruhl Gardens      Ruhl Garden Dr.    Melanie Ct.        1997-13     4-7-97
                 Ruhl Garden Dr.    Ruhl Garden Ct.    1980-2      2-19-80
                 Ruhl Garden Dr.    Ruhl Meadow Ct.    1997-13     4-7-97
                 400E               Ruhl Garden Dr.    1980-2      2-19-80
Southdowns        U.S. 31            Southdown Dr.      1971-8      7-19-71
                                     North
                 S.R. 26            Southdown Dr.      1971-8      7-19-71
                                     South
Spice Run         Cinnamon Trace     Nutmeg Ln.         1997-13     4-7-97
                 Nutmeg Ln.         Ginger Ct.         1997-13     4-7-97
Springdale        Springdale Dr.     Springdale Ct.     1997-13     4-7-97
                 Springdale Dr.     Spring Grove Dr.   1997-13     4-7-97
                  West
                 Springdale Dr.     Spring Grove Dr.   1997-13     4-7-97
                  East
                 300S (Center Rd.)  Springdale Dr.     1997-13     4-7-97
                                     West
                 300S (Center Rd.)  Springdale Dr.     1997-13     4-7-97
                                     East
Stonybrook 1 & 2  Eastbrook Dr.      Hawthorne Ln.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Southway Blvd.     Beechwood Ln.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Willow Spring Rd.  Bittersweet Ln.    1971-8      7-19-71
                 Willow Spring Rd.  Briarwood Ct.      1971-8      7-19-71
Sugar Mill        Sugar Mill Rd.     Sugar Mill Ct.     1997-13     4-7-97
                 560W               Sugar Mill Rd.     1997-13     4-7-97
Sugar Mill Farms  Boulevard (100S)   Meadow Run Ct.     1997-13     4-7-97
                 Boulevard (100S)   Meadow Run Dr.     1997-13     4-7-97
                 Boulevard (100S)   Windy Hill Ct.     1997-13     4-7-97
                 Boulevard (100S)   Windy Hill Rd.     1997-13     4-7-97
Tall Oaks         Tall Oaks Dr.      Tall Oaks Blvd.    1997-13     4-7-97
                 300W (Malfalfa     Tall Oaks Blvd.    1997-13     4-7-97
                  Rd.)
Terrace Meadows   Alameda            Mayfair Dr.        1980-2      2-19-80
                 Alto Rd.           Marsha Dr.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 East Southway      Canyon Dr.         1971-8      7-19-71
                  Blvd.
                 East Southway      Melody Ln.         1971-8      7-19-71
                  Blvd.
                 East Southway      Orleans Dr.        1971-8      7-19-71
                  Blvd.
                 Honey Ln.          Honey Ct.          1980-2      2-19-80
                 Orleans Dr.        Marsha Dr.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Williams Dr.       Williams Ct.       1980-2      2-19-80
Terrace Meadows   Alto Rd.           Orleans Dr.        1971-8      7-19-71
II
Terrace Meadows   Marsha Dr.         Marsha Ct.         1971-8      7-19-71
III
Terrace Meadows   Alameda Blvd.      Red Bud Ln.        1971-8      7-19-71
IV
                 Alameda Blvd.      Tulip Ln.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Southway Blvd.     Alameda Blvd.      1971-8      7-19-71
Terrace Meadows V Albright Rd.       Kirk’s Row       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Albright Rd.       Tallyho            1971-8      7-19-71
                 Kirk’s Row       Susan Dr.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Southway Blvd.     Tallyho South      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Southway Blvd.     Susan Dr.          1971-8      7-19-71
                  East
                 Southway Blvd.     Williams Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                  East
                 Susan Dr.          Honey Ln.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Susan Dr.          Susan Ct.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Tally Ho Dr.       Tallyho Ct.        1971-8      7-19-71
                  Timber Valley Dr.  Foxfire Ln.        1997-13     4-7-97
Timber Valley of  Timber Valley Dr.  Timber Ct.         1997-13     4-7-97
Woodhaven         Timber Valley Dr.  Timber Ridge Ct.   1997-13     4-7-97
                  300S (Center Rd.)  Timber Valley Dr.  1997-13     4-7-97
Urbandale         Covey Ln.          Gordon Dr.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Covey Ln.          Stoneview Dr.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Gordon Dr.         Gordon Ct.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Malfalfa Rd.       Covey Ln.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Malfalfa Rd.       Stoneview Dr.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Stoneview Dr.      Carolyn Ct.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Stoneview Dr.      Cobble Ln.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Stoneview Dr.      Ginny Dr.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Stoneview Dr.      Gordon Dr.         1971-8      7-19-71
Villa Manor       Villa Manor Dr.    Villa Manor Ct.    1980-2      2-19-80
                 850E               Villa Manor Dr.    1980-2      2-19-80
Vinton Woods      Oakhurst Dr.       Bruce Ct.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Oakhurst Dr.       Cedar Ct.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Oakhurst Dr.       Cypress Ct.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Oakhurst Dr.       Oakmont Dr.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Oakhurst Dr.       Maple Ct.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Southlea Dr.       Oakhurst Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Southway Blvd.     Oakmont Dr.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Southway Blvd.     Southlea Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Southway Blvd.     Webster St.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Webster St.        Oak Ct.            1971-8      7-19-71
                 Webster St.        Oakhurst Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Webster St.        Southlea Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Webster St.        Webster Ct.        1971-8      7-19-71
Water’s Edge    Artesian Dr.       Waterview Way      1997-39     9-15-97
                 Lamplighter Ln.    Enclave Ct.        1997-39     9-15-97
                 Pine Ridge Rd.     Lamplighter Ln.    1997-39     9-15-97
                 Waterview Way      Pine Ridge Dr.     1997-39     9-15-97
                 300S               Pine Ridge Dr.     1997-39     9-15-97
                  Valley View Dr.    Meadow View Dr.    1997-13     4-7-97
                  200W (Dixon Rd.)   Valley View Dr.    1997-13     4-7-97
                  300S               Foxfire Ln.        2004-       12-6-04
Walnut Estates                                          BCC-44
(Section 18)      Foxfire Ln.        Foxhaven Dr.       2004-       12-6-04
                                                        BCC-44
Walton Lake       Cameron Dr.        Kerri Lynn Ln.     1997-13     4-7-97
Estates
                 Cameron Dr.        Walton Lake Dr.    1997-13     4-7-97
                 Kerri Lynn Ln.     Walton Lake Dr.    1997-13     4-7-97
                 200S               Cameron Dr.        1997-13     4-7-97
Walton Woods      Walton Way         Kelly Ct.          1980-2      2-19-80
                 Walton Way         Kristin Ln.        1997-13     4-7-97
                 Walton Way         Lance Ct.          1980-2      2-19-80
                 200E               Walton Way         1980-2      2-19-80
West Point        Columbus Blvd.     Birchwood Dr.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Columbus Blvd.     Hickory Ln.        1971-8      7-19-71
                 Columbus Blvd.     Pinoak St.         1971-8      7-19-71
                 Hickory Ln.        Birchwood Dr.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Hickory Ln.        Parkwood Dr. East  1971-8      7-19-71
                 Hickory Ln.        Rosewood Dr. East  1971-8      7-19-71
                 Hickory Ln.        Willow Dr. West    1971-8      7-19-71
                 Pinoak St.         Parkwood Dr. West  1971-8      7-19-71
                 Pinoak St.         Rosewood Dr. East  1971-8      7-19-71
                 West Jefferson Rd. Hickory Ln.        1971-8      7-19-71
Winding Brood PUD 400E               Jaquelyn Ct.       1997-13     4-7-97
Windwood Park     Cottonwood         Jeff Dr.           1971-8      7-19-71
                 Cottonwood         Windwood Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
                 Jeff Dr.           Jeff Ct.           1971-8      7-19-71
                 Jeff Dr.           Windy Ct.          1971-8      7-19-71
                 Jeff Dr.           Woodcliff Ct.      1971-8      7-19-71
                 Jeff Dr.           Woodcliff Dr.      1993-12     3-29-93
                 Windwood Dr.       Jeff Dr.           1971-8      7-19-71
                 480W               Windwood Dr.       1971-8      7-19-71
 
      (2)   County road preferential intersections.
PREFERENTIAL STOP INTERSECTIONS ON CERTAIN COUNTY ROADS
Preferential County Road Intersecting Street Ord. No Date Passed
PREFERENTIAL STOP INTERSECTIONS ON CERTAIN COUNTY ROADS
Preferential County Road    Intersecting Street            Ord. No Date Passed
00NS                        Clark St.                      1992-37 12-14-92
                            Emery St.                      1992-37 12-14-92
                            Lewis St.                      1992-37 12-14-92
                            480W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            820W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            900W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            980W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1050W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1150W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1280W                          1971-8  7-19-71
00EW                        Country Ln.                    1992-37 12-14-92
                            Rose Dr.                       1992-37 12-14-92
                            250S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            575N (on east side of U.S. 31) 1992-37 12-14-92
                            600N                           1971-8  7-19-71
20S                         1200W                          1971-8  7-19-71
50N                         150E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            400E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            625E (Lakewood Dr.)            1992-37 12-14-92
                            700E                           1971-8  7-19-71
50S                         400W                           1997-13 4-7-97
                            440W                           1971-8  7-19-71
50E                         400N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            450N                           1971-8  7-19-71
80N                         350W                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            400W                           1975-28 12-22-75
80S                         520W                           —     —
                            560W                           —     —
90N                         125E                           —     —
100N                        Hillcrest Ct. North            1992-37 12-14-92
                            Ridge Rd.                      1992-37 12-14-92
                            250E                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            300E                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            350E                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            400E                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            500E                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            600E                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            700E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            750E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            780E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            800E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            900E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            950E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1000E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1200E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1250E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1300E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1400E                          1971-8  7-19-71
100S                        Great Pumpkin Ln.              1992-37 12-14-92
                            Ruhl Rd.                       1992-37 12-14-92
                            200E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            400E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            450E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700E                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            750E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            980E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1010E                          —     —
                            1050W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1180W                          1975-28 12-22-75
                            1200E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1200W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1280W                          1975-28 12-22-75
                            1300E                          1971-8  7-19-71
100W (700W in Tipton Co.)   Golf Course Ln.                1992-37 12-14-92
                            Nottingham Ln.                 1992-37 12-14-92
                            200S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            450N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500S                           —     1-3-72
                            550N                           1971-8  7-19-71
128E                        394S                           1992-37 12-14-92
135E                        394S                           1992-37 12-14-92
140E                        250N                           1975-28 12-22-75
150S                        100E                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            870W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            950W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1050W                          1971-8  7-19-71
150E                        Foster St.                     1992-37 12-14-92
                            Harrison St.                   1992-37 12-14-92
                            20N (Arnold St.)               1971-8  7-19-71
                            30N                            1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
170W (Railroad)             425N                           1975-28 12-22-75
180S                        680W                           1971-8  7-19-71
200N                        100E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            450W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            550W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            750E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            825W                           —     —
                            880W                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            900W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1000E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1000W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1050W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1080W                          1975-28 12-22-75
                            1150W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1225W                          —     —
                            1250E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1250W                          1971-8  7-19-71
200S                        Cameron Dr.                    1992-37 12-14-92
                            150E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            400E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            350W                           1997-13 4-7-97
                            750E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            820W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1050W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1200W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1280W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1300E                          1971-8  7-19-71
200W (800W in Tipton Co.)   Chippendale Dr.                1992-37 12-14-92
                            Mill St.                       1973-6  4-28-73
                            Woodhaven Trail                1992-37 12-14-92
                            200S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500S                           —     1-3-72
200E (400W in Tipton Co.)   Lynn Dr.                       1992-37 12-14-92
                            500S                           —     1-3-72
214S                        757W (Church St.)              1992-37 12-14-92
220S                        757W (Church St.)              1992-37 12-14-92
                            766W (Peru St.)                1992-37 12-14-92
225S                        744W (Market St.)              1992-37 12-14-92
226S                        757W (Church St.)              1992-37 12-14-92
233S                        757W (Church St.)              1992-37 12-14-92
250N                        250E                           1997-13 4-7-97
                            400E                           1973-6  4-28-73
250S                        Brookshire Dr                  1992-37 12-14-92
                            Jeffrey Ln.                    1992-37 12-14-92
                            Liberty St.                    1973-6  4-28-73
                            Walter St.                     1973-6  4-28-73
                            100E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            350W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            400W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            450W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            470W (Hobson St.)              1971-8  7-19-71
                            480W (Rabbit St.)              1992-37 12-14-92
                            500W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            800W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            870W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            950W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1000W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1050W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1200W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1280W                          1971-8  7-19-71
250W                        450N                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
250E                        200N                           1971-8  7-19-71
285S                        344E                           1992-37 12-14-92
300N                        00EW                           2002-10 3-4-02
                            400E                           —     1-3-72
                            650W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            800W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            825W                           —     —
                            900W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1000E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1200E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1300E                          1971-8  7-19-71
300S                        Kennington Dr.                 1997-40 9-15-97
                            Orleans Dr.                    1992-37 12-14-92
                            Springdale Dr.                 1992-37 12-14-92
                            Springdale Dr. (west terminus) 1992-37 12-14-92
                            Springdale Dr. (east terminus) 1992-37 12-14-92
                            Timber Valley Dr.              1992-37 12-14-92
                            Washington St. in Center, In.  1972-21 6-12-72
                            100E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            250E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            337E                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            344E                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            350E                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            356E                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            400E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            950W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            980E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1000E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1020E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1150E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1300E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1330E                          1975-28 12-22-75
300W (900W in Tipton Co.)   175N (Tall Oaks Blvd.)         1992-37 12-14-92
                            200S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1983-3  1-24-83
                            450N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500S                           —     1-3-72
                            600N                           1971-8  7-19-71
300E                        Ridge Rd.                      1992-37 12-14-92
                            150N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            250N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            550N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600N                           1997-13 4-7-97
306S                        344E                           1992-37 12-14-92
310N                        150W                           1975-28 12-22-75
320N                        200W                           1975-28 12-22-75
320S                        680W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700W                           —     —
344E                        291S                           1992-37 12-14-92
350N                        1225W                          1971-8  7-19-71
350W                        Cinnamon Trace                 1992-37 12-14-92
                            North Parkway                  1992-37 12-14-92
                            300S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            350S                           1975-28 12-22-75
350E                        Brookhaven Dr.                 1992-37 12-14-92
                            288S                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            291S                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            294S                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            306S                           1992-37 12-14-92
356E                        294S                           1992-37 12-14-92
400N                        450E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            710W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            750W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            800W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            850E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            900E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            900W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1000E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1000W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1200E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1200W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1300E                          1971-8  7-19-71
400S                        116E                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            120E                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            128E                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            135E                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            443E                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            450E                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            456E                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            460E                           1992-37 12-14-92
400W (1000W in Tipton Co.)  125N (Sugarmaple Dr.)          1992-37 12-14-92
                            180S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            350S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            450N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500S                           —     1-3-72
                            550N                           1971-8  7-19-71
400E (200W in Tipton Co.)   500S                           —     1-3-72
425N                        200W                           1975-28 12-22-75
450N                        80W                            1975-28 12-22-75
                            150W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1200E                          1971-8  7-19-71
450W                        300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
450E                        500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600N                           1971-8  7-19-71
500N (00NS in Grant County) 200E                           1997-13 4-7-97
                            350E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1000E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1000W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1030W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1300E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1400E                          —     1-3-72
500S                        Barnett Ave.                   1992-37 12-14-92
                            50E                            1971-8  7-19-71
                            100E (500W in Tipton Co.)      —     1-3-72
                            150E                           —     1-3-72
                            300E (300W in Tipton Co.)      —     1-3-72
                            350E                           —     1-3-72
                            450E                           —     1-3-72
                            450W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            580W                           —     1-3-72
                            600E (Meridian in Tipton Co.)  —     1-3-72
                            600W (1200W in Tipton Co.)     —     1-3-72
                            650E (50E in Tipton Co.)       —     1-3-72
                            680W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700E (100E in Tipton Co.)      —     1-3-72
                            750E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            800E (200E in Tipton Co.)      —     1-3-72
                            800W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            870W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            920W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            980E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1000E (400E in Tipton Co.)     —     1-3-72
                            1100E (500E in Tipton Co.)     —     1-3-72
                            1200E (600E in Tipton Co.)     —     1-3-72
                            1250E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1330E                          —     1-3-72
500W (1100W in Tipton Co.)  180S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300S                           1997-13 4-7-97
                            450N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500S                           —     1-3-72
                            550N                           1997-13 4-7-97
                            600N                           1971-8  7-19-71
500E                        100S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            250N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300S                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500S                           —     1-3-72
550N                        00EW                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            100E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200E                           1971-8  7-19-71
560W                        Sugar Mill Rd.                 1992-37 12-14-92
575N                        00EW (on west side of U.S. 31) 1992-37 12-14-92
600N                        100W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            150W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            400W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            900E                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            900W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            1030W                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1250E                          1971-8  7-19-71
                            1300E                          1971-8  7-19-71
600S                        600W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            650W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            680W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            800W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            870W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            920W                           1971-8  7-19-71
600W                        160S                           1997-13 4-7-97
                            250N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300S                           1997-13 4-7-97
                            320S                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            400N                           1997-13 4-7-97
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
600E                        50S                            1971-8  7-19-71
                            200N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            250N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600N                           1971-8  7-19-71
680W                        100S                           —     —
                            150S                           —     —
700S                        625W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            675W                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            800W                           1971-8  7-19-71
700W                        250N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
700E                        Cassell Ct.                    1992-37 12-14-92
                            50S                            1971-8  7-19-71
                            200N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
750W                        00NS                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            100S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            150S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            180S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            214S (High St.)                1992-37 12-14-92
                            220S (Mill St.)                1992-37 12-14-92
                            226S (Walnut St.)              1992-37 12-14-92
                            233S (London St.)              1992-37 12-14-92
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            320S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            330S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            700S                           1971-8  7-19-71
766W                        214S (High St.)                1992-37 12-14-92
                            226S (Walnut St.)              1992-37 12-14-92
775W                        420S                           1971-8  7-19-71
800W                        500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
800E                        Deer Creek Rd.                 1992-37 12-14-92
                            50N                            1971-8  7-19-71
                            100S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            180S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200N                           1997-13 4-7-97
                            200S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600N                           1971-8  7-19-71
820W                        150S                           1971-8  7-19-71
850E                        50S (850E stops for 50S from   1977-31 10-31-77
                            the south)
                            200N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
870W                        200S                           2002-40 9-3-02
900W                        500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
900E (S.R. 213)             100S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            180S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            250N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500S                           —     1-3-72
950W                        100S                           1971-8  7-19-71
1000W                       300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            330N                           —     —
1000E                       200N                           1997-13 4-7-97
                            250S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            550N                           1971-8  7-19-71
1030W                       520N                           1971-8  7-19-71
1030E                       169S                           1992-37 12-14-92
1039E                       164S                           1992-37 12-14-92
1050W                       150N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300S                           1971-8  7-19-71
1050E                       250S                           1971-8  7-19-71
1080W                       330N                           —     —
1100E                       100S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            240S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            350N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            450N                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            550N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600N                           1971-8  7-19-71
1150W                       350N                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            400N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            565N                           1975-28 12-22-75
1180W                       150S                           1971-8  7-19-71
1225W                       300N                           —     —
1250W                       125N                           1971-8  7-19-71
1250E                       100S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300S                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            320S                           1992-37 12-14-92
                            340S                           1975-28 12-22-75
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
1330E                       350S                           1975-28 12-22-75
1350E                       100N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            200N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            300N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            400N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            500N                           1971-8  7-19-71
                            600N                           1971-8  7-19-71
1400E (1000W in Grant Co.)  100S (600S in Grant Co.)       —     1-3-72
(800E in Tipton Co.)        200S (700S in Grant Co.)       1971-8  7-19-71
                            300S (800S in Grant Co.)       —     1-3-72
                            500S                           —     1-3-72
                            600N                           1971-8  7-19-71
 
      (3)   Other preferential intersections:
OTHER PREFERENTIAL INTERSECTIONS
Preferential Street Intersecting Street Ord. No. Date Passed
OTHER PREFERENTIAL INTERSECTIONS
Preferential Street Intersecting Street              Ord. No. Date Passed
Alameda Blvd.       Mayfair Dr.                      —      —
Arnold St.          Clark St.                        1992-37  12-14-92
                   Emery St.                        1992-37  12-14-92
Bramoor Dr.         Bramoor Ct.                      1992-37  12-14-92
                   Wexmoor Dr.                      1992-37  12-14-92
Brookhaven Dr.      Brookhaven Ct.                   1992-37  12-14-92
                   Crescent Dr.                     1992-37  12-14-92
                   Pavalion Dr.                     1992-37  12-14-92
Brookshire Dr.      Woodfield Dr.                    1992-37  12-14-92
Cinnamon Trace      Nutmeg Ln.                       1992-37  12-14-92
Clark St.           Harrison St.                     1992-37  12-14-92
Country Ln.         Patricia Dr.                     1992-37  12-14-92
Deer Creek Rd.      Knoll Wood Ln.                   1992-37  12-14-92
Edward Dr.          Emily Ct.                        1992-37  12-14-92
Emery St.           Harrison St.                     1992-37  12-14-92
Foster St.          Clark St.                        1992-37  12-14-92
                   Miller St.                       1992-37  12-14-92
Glen Moor Way       Chippendale Dr.                  1992-37  12-14-92
                   Glen Moor Ct.                    1992-37  12-14-92
                   Wexmoor Dr.                      1992-37  12-14-92
Great Pumpkin Ln.   Pumpkin Leaf Dr.                 1992-37  12-14-92
                   Pumpkin Vine Dr.                 1992-37  12-14-92
Hidden Valley Drive 560W                             2002-53  11-4-02
High St.            Church St.                       1974-20  9-9-74
                   Main St.                         1974-20  9-9-74
Jeffrey Ln.         Anna Ln.                         1992-37  12-14-92
Kerri Lynn Ln.      Walton Lake Dr.                  1992-37  12-14-92
Lakewood Dr.        Lakewood Ct.                     1992-37  12-14-92
Lewis St.           Foster St.                       1992-37  12-14-92
                   Harrison St.                     1992-37  12-14-92
London St.          Church St.                       1974-20  9-9-74
Lynn Dr.            Edward Dr.                       1992-37  12-14-92
                   Lynn Ct.                         1992-37  12-14-92
Main St. (750W)     Lafayette St.                    1974-20  9-9-74
                   London St.                       1974-20  9-9-74
                   Walnut St.                       1974-20  9-9-74
McKibben Dr.        Christopher Dr.                  1992-37  12-14-92
                   Lyons Dr.                        1992-37  12-14-92
                   Oliene Dr.                       1992-37  12-14-92
                   Rolland Dr.                      1992-37  12-14-92
Mill St.            Church St.                       1974-20  9-9-74
                   Market St.                       1974-20  9-9-74
Nancy Dr.           00EW                             1992-37  12-14-92
Peru St.            High St.                         1974-20  9-9-74
                   High St.                         1974-20  9-9-74
Rainbow Dr.         Westmoor Dr. Southbound          1997-12  4-7-97
Ridge Rd.           Crescent Dr.                     1992-37  12-14-92
                   Pavalion Dr.                     1992-37  12-14-92
Rolland Dr.         Christopher Dr.                  1992-37  12-14-92
Ruhl Rd.            Pumpkin Leaf Dr.                 1992-37  12-14-92
                   Pumpkin Vine Dr.                 1992-37  12-14-92
Springdale Dr.      Spring Grove Dr. (west terminus) 1992-37  12-14-92
                   Spring Grove Dr. (east terminus) 1992-37  12-14-92
                   Springdale Ct.                   1992-37  12-14-92
Sugar Mill Rd.      Sugar Mill Ct.                   1992-37  12-14-92
Tall Oaks Dr.       175N (Tall Oaks Blvd.)           1992-37  12-14-92
Timber Valley Dr.   Timber Ridge Ct.                 1992-37  12-14-92
Toby Pike           450N                             1997-13  4-7-97
Walnut St.          Church St.                       1974-20  9-9-74
Webster St.         Brown Ave.                       —      —
S.R. 22             Wildcat Pkwy.                    1992-37  12-14-92
U.S. 31             Ida Dr.                          1992-37  12-14-92
                   Nancy Dr.                        1992-37  12-14-92
                   00EW (for U.S. 31 North)         1992-37  12-14-92
                   500S                             —      1-3-72
                   550N                             1992-37  12-14-92
 
   (C)   Three-way stop intersections. The following are established as three-
way stop intersections. The County Highway Department is hereby authorized and
directed to erect stop signs at each of these intersections in accordance with
the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Ord. 1978-12, passed 5-30-78)
 
THREE-WAY STOPS
Intersection                           Ord. No.     Date Passed
Goyer Rd. (150E) and Lincoln Rd (150S) 1971-8       7-19-71
County Roads 450 West and 350 North    2018 BCCO-17 5-7-2018
 
   (D)   Four-way stop intersections. The following are established as four-way
stop intersections. The County Highway Department is hereby authorized and
directed to erect stop signs at each of these intersections in accordance with
the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Ord. 1978-12, passed 5-30-78)
FOUR-WAY STOPS
Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
FOUR-WAY STOPS
Intersection                                             Ord. No. Date Passed
Arrowhead Blvd. and Tomahawk Blvd.                       —      —
South Emery St. and East Foster St. (in Darrough Chapel) —      1-3-72
Washington Street and 300N                               2001-55  12-3-01
00EW (Apperson Way North) and 300N (Smith Rd.)           1971-8   7-19-71
50N and 300E                                             1994-48  11-21-94
50N and 500E                                             1994-48  11-21-94
50N and 600W                                             1997-12  4-7-97
50S and 200W                                             —      —
50S and 300W                                             1962-6   6-4-62
50E (North Ohio) and 150N (North St. Extension)          1971-8   7-19-71
50E and 300N                                             1995-36  9-25-95
50E and 450N                                             1997-52  12-1-97
50E and 550N                                             1971-8   7-19-71
100N and 850E                                            1997-20  6-2-97
100N and 1100E                                           —      —
100S (West Boulevard) and 100W (Park Rd.)                1971-8   7-19-71
100S (West Boulevard) and 200W (Dixon Rd.)               1971-8   7-19-71
100S and 300W                                            1971-8   7-19-71
100S and 300E                                            1971-8   7-19-71
100S and 400W                                            1993-14  4-19-93
100W (Park Rd.) and 150S (Lincoln Rd.)                   1972-35  11-13-72
100W and 250S                                            1971-8   7-19-71
100W and 300S                                            1969-9   8-11-69
100E and 150S                                            —      —
100E (Albright Rd.) and 200S (Southway Blvd. East)       1978-12  5-30-78
125E and 200N                                            —      —
130E and 300S                                            —      —
190E and 400N                                            1971-8   7-19-71
200N and 200W                                            1990-34  8-20-90
200N and 300W                                            —      —
200N (Judson Rd.) and 400W                               —      1-3-72
200N and 750W                                            —      —
200S and 200E                                            —      —
200S and 300E                                            1989-9   4-17-89
200W and 250S                                            —      —
200W and 300S                                            1997-29  7-7-97
250S and 750W                                            —      —
300S and 700E                                            —      —
300S and 800E                                            —      —
300W and 350N                                            1983-2   1-17-83
300E and 400N                                            —      —
350W (Hickory Ln.), Mayfield Dr. and Cinnamon Trace      1997-13  4-7-97
400N and 800E                                            1971-8   7-19-71
400N and 1100E                                           1971-8   7-19-71
600N and 800W                                            —      —
 
   (E)   Penalty. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
schedule shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(`83 Code, Ch. 71, Sched. II) (Ord. 1971-8, passed 7-19-71)
SCHEDULE IV: VEHICLE LOADS.
   (A)   Gross weight limits.
      (1)   The term VEHICLE as used in this schedule shall be held to apply to
every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on a public highway or street excepting devices moved by
human power or used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate or to cause to be operated any
vehicle having total gross weight with load in excess of 20,000 pounds in
Indian Heights subdivision on the following streets, except for emergency
vehicles, school buses, street or highway maintenance vehicles, and moving
vans, delivery vehicles, and service vehicles making deliveries or rendering
services to residences in Indian Heights subdivision:
 
INDIAN HEIGHTS SUBDIVISION — 20,000 POUND RESTRICTIONS
Street                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Arrowhead Blvd.        1982-18  9-7-82
Council Ring Blvd.     1982-18  9-7-82
Tomahawk Blvd.         1982-18  9-7-82
775W from 250S to 500S 1983-25  8-8-83
 
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to operate or cause to be operated any vehicle
having a total gross weight with a load in excess of 40,000 pounds on the
following roads:
 
GENERAL LOAD REGULATIONS — 40,000 POUND RESTRICTIONS
Street                 Ord. No. Date Passed
750W from 250S to 500S 1983-25  8-8-83
870W from 250S to 500S 1983-25  8-8-83
 
   (B)   Seasonal load restrictions. During certain months of the year when the
County Road Supervisor, in his or her discretion, deems it reasonable and
necessary to lessen the loads carried by motor vehicles on certain county
highways, the Board of County Commissioners may by resolution regularly adopted
impose the following load restrictions on any vehicles or combination of
vehicles operating on roads in the county. The resolution provided for in this
division (B) shall describe the various roads upon which load restrictions are
to be imposed and shall provide that the restrictions are to be enforced until
the same are lifted and dissolved by a subsequent resolution by the Board of
Commissioners. Whenever the load restrictions herein provided are by resolution
of the Board of County Commissioners placed in effect, the County Highway
Department shall place signs indicating the gross weight allowed on the county
roads affected by such resolution and such signs shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the roads so placed by resolution under load restrictions.
Such signs shall be clearly legible from a distance of 25 feet and shall be
maintained during the time such load restriction is in force. No such
resolution shall in any case become effective until signs indicating such load
restrictions have been so posted.
Tire Size Gross Load Each Tire (lbs.)
Tire Size      Gross Load Each Tire (lbs.)
6.00           1,400
6.50           1,600
7.00           1,800
7.50           2,250
8.25           2,800
9.00           3,400
10.00          4,000
11.00          4,500
12.00 and over 4,500
 
(Ord. 1958-3, passed 3-10-58)
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(`83 Code, Ch. 71, Sched. III) (Ord. 1982-18, passed 9-7-82; Am. Ord. 1983-25,
passed 8-8-83)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate weight and size of vehicles, see I.C. 9-20-1-3
SCHEDULE V: YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Yield intersections.
YIELD INTERSECTIONS
Intersecting Street Yield Street Ord. No. Date Passed
YIELD INTERSECTIONS
Intersecting Street Yield Street     Ord. No. Date Passed
Greytwig Dr.        Eastbrook        1972-35  11-13-72
Greytwig Dr.        Hawthorne Ln.    1972-35  11-13-72
Marsha Dr.          Pamela Ct.       —      —
Melody Ln.          Canyon Dr.       —      —
Melody Ln.          Carson Ct.       —      —
Melody Ln. South    Melody Ln. South —      —
Melody Ln. East     Melody Ct.       —      —
Orleans Dr.         Linda Dr.        —      —
Orleans Dr.         Melody Ln. East  —      —
Orleans Dr.         Terrace Ct.      —      —
Tulip Ln.           Linda Dr.        —      —
350W/Hickory Lane   North Parkway    BCC      10-2-06
                                     2006-24
520W                100S             1994-16  2-28-94
600N                1000E            —      —
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
schedule shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(`83 Code, Ch. 71, Sched. IV) (Ord. 1971-8, passed 7-19-71)
SCHEDULE VI: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Traffic control signals shall be erected at the following locations:
 
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS
Street     Intersecting Street Ord. No. Date Passed
Alto Road  Park Road           2002-09  3-4-02
Dixon Road Boulevard           2002-09  3-4-02
Dixon Road Deffenbaugh         2002-09  3-4-02
Dixon Road Lincoln Road        2002-09  3-4-02
Dixon Road Markland Avenue     2002-09  3-4-02
 
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking Prohibited
      
II.   Parking Restricted
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau; civil penalty for parking violations, see §
10.98
SCHEDULE I: PARKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, when signs are
erected giving notice thereof, to park a vehicle upon any of the following
streets or places:
PARKING PROHIBITED
Street Side Location Ord. No. Date Passed
PARKING PROHIBITED
Street           Side               Location           Ord. No.    Date Passed
Algonquin Trail  North              Wea Dr. to Canoe   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    St.
                East               Canoe St. to       1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Papoose St.
                South              Papoose St. to     1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Mohawk
Arrow St.        South              From Arrowhead     1990-26     5-29-90
                                    Blvd. for 90 feet
                                    Between Center Rd.
Arrowhead Blvd.  West               and S.R. 26        1979-2      1-15-79
                                    entrance
Birch Ct.        North and             —          1987-12     6-15-87
                 cul-de-sac
Brave Ct.        South and             —          1987-12     6-15-87
                 cul-de-sac
Buckskin Ct.     North and             —          1987-12     6-15-87
                 cul-de-sac
                                    Between Miami
Buckskin Dr.     East               Blvd. and Tomahawk 1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Blvd.
                                    Between Arrowhead
Canoe St.        Both               Blvd. and          1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Algonquin Trail
Center Rd.                          Between Center Rd.
Entrance         Both               and Council Ring   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Blvd.
                                    From Moccasin
Chippawa Ln.     East               Trail to Council   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Ring Blvd.
                Southeast          From Wea Dr. to    1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Moccasin Trail
Council Ct.      Southeast and cul-    —          1987-12     6-15-87
                 de-sac
Council Ring                        From Miami Blvd.
Blvd.            East               to Kickapoo Dr.    1979-2      1-15-79
                                    (north)
                East               From Ring Ct. to   1979-2      1-15-79
                                   Council Ct.
                East               From Waubesa Way   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    to Tomahawk Blvd.
                North              From Council Ct.   1979-2      1-15-79
 
                North              From Council Ct.   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    to Miami Blvd.
                                    From Kickapoo Dr.
                North              (north) to Center  1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Rd. entrance
                South              From Tomahawk      1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Blvd. to Ring Ct.
                                    From S.R. 26
                South              entrance to        1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Waubesa Way
                                    Within 10 feet of
Davis Rd.        Both               pavement edge from 1997-21     7-7-97
                                    300N to city
                                    limits
                                    From a point 214
                                    feet west of the
East Baxter                         centerline of
Street           South              Lewis Street to    2011-BCO-18 7-18-11
                                    410 feet west of
                                    the centerline of
                                    Lewis Street
Flint Ct.        South and             —          1987-12     6-15-87
                 cul-de-sac
                                    From Arrowhead
Flint Way        Both               Blvd. to Fire      1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Station
Kickapoo Ct.     Both                  —          1979-2      1-15-79
 
                                    From its north
                                    intersection with
Kickapoo Dr.     South and West     Council Ring Blvd. 1987-12     6-15-87
                                    to its south
                                    intersection with
                                    Council Ring Blvd.
                                    From its south
                West               intersection with  1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Council Ring Blvd.
                                    to Kickapoo Ct.
                                    Between Arrowhead
Kiowa St.        East               Blvd. to Seneca    1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Trail
Lance Dr.        West               From Council Ring  1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Blvd. to Wea Dr.
Long Bow Dr.     East               From Miami Blvd.   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    to Tomahawk Blvd.
Maumee Dr.       East               From Mendota Dr.   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    to Monona Dr.
                                    From Arrowhead
                North              Blvd. to Mendota   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Dr.
                North              From Monona Dr. to 1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Tomahawk Blvd.
Mendota Ct.      North and             —          1987-12     6-15-87
                 cul-de-sac
Mendota Dr.      East               Between Maumee Dr. 1979-2      1-15-79
                                    and Seneca Trail
Menomonee Ct.    South and             —          1987-12     6-15-87
                 cul-de-sac
Menomonee Dr.    West               From Miami Blvd.   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    to Tomahawk Blvd.
MiamI Blvd.      East               From Council Ring  1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Blvd. to Wea Dr.
                South              Buckskin Dr. to    1979-2      1-15-79
                                   Long Bow Dr.
                Southeast          From Wea Dr. to    1979-2      1-15-79
                                   Buckskin Dr.
                Southwest          From Long Bow Dr.  1979-2      1-15-79
                                    to Arrowhead Blvd.
Miami Ct.        Northwest and cul-    —          1987-12     6-15-87
                 de-sac
                                    Between Chippawa
Moccasin Trail   South              Ln. and Peace Pipe 1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Dr.
Mohawk Dr.       West               From Algonquin     1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Trail to Wea Dr.
Monona Dr.       East               From Mendota Dr.   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    to Maumee Dr.
                                    From its south
Ojibway Dr.                         intersection with
                East               Mohawk Dr. to its  1979-2      1-15-79
                                   north intersection
                                    with Mohawk Dr.
Oswego St.       South                 —          1987-12     6-15-87
 
                                    From Arrowhead
Papoose St.      Both               Blvd. to Algonquin 1987-12     6-15-87
                                    Trail
Peace Pipe Dr.   West               From Tepee Dr. to  1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Moccasin Trail
                                    From Moccasin
                West-Southwest     Trail to Council   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Ring Blvd.
                                    [Specifically
                                    excludes the south
                                    and west sides
                                    from a point 30
                                    feet west of the
Peshewa Ct.      North and East and intersection with  1987-12     6-15-87
                 cul-de-sac         Arrowhead Blvd. to 1994-34     8-1-94
                                    the intersection
                                    with the west side
                                    of the cul-de-sac
                                    at the end of
                                    Peshewa Ct.]
Ring Ct.         Southwest and cul-    —          1987-12     6-15-87
                 de-sac
                                    From Council Ring
Scout St.        West               Blvd. to its       1987-12     6-15-87
                                    terminus
Seneca Trail     South              From Mendota Dr.   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    to Kiowa St.
                West               From Kiowa St. to  1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Maumee Dr.
                                    From Chippawa Ln.
Tepee Dr.        North              to Council Ring    1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Blvd.
Tomahawk Blvd.   South              From U.S. 31 to    1987-12     6-15-87
                                    Arrowhead Blvd.
                South              From Arrowhead     1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Blvd. to Wea Dr.
                West               From Wea Dr. to    1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Council Ring Blvd.
                                    From Council Ring
Treaty Ln.       East               Blvd. to Wigwam    1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Dr.
Tribal St.       Both               From Wea Dr. to    1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Council Ring Blvd.
Wampum Dr.       North and West     From Treaty Ln. to 1987-12     6-15-87
                                    Wigwam Dr.
Waubesa Ct.      Southwest and cul-    —          1987-12     6-15-87
                 de-sac
                                    From its north
Waubesa Way      Northeast          intersection with  1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Council Ring Blvd.
                                    to Waubesa Ct.
                                    From Waubesa Ct.
                South-Southeast    to its south       1979-2      1-15-79
                                    intersection with
                                    Council Ring Blvd.
Wea Dr.          East               From Miami Blvd.   1979-2      1-15-79
                                    to Tomahawk Blvd.
                West               From Mohawk Dr. to 1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Miami Blvd.
Wigwam Ct.       West and              —          1987-12     6-15-87
                 cul-de-sac
Wigwam Dr.       South              From Lance Dr. to  1979-2      1-15-79
                                    Council Ring Blvd.
Wingra Ct.       North and             —          1987-12     6-15-87
                 cul-de-sac
                                    From a point
                                    beginning 3,525
                                    feet south of the
                                    south curbline of
Road 00EW        West               U.S. 35 on old     1984-9      4-30-84
                                    U.S. 31 (C.R.
                                    00EW) to a point
                                    1,000 feet south
                                    thereof
                                    Between S.R. 26
S.R. 26 entrance Both               and Arrowhead      1987-12     6-15-87
                                    Blvd.
                                    Between County
100N             Both               Roads 400E and     1980-9      6-9-80
                                    600E
                                    Extending 295 feet
200W             Both               south of the       1990-19     4-30-90
                                    intersection with
                                    250S
                                    Beginning 200 feet
                                    east of Rabbit St.
250S             North              and continuing     1972-35     11-13-72
                                    east to a point
                                    276 feet on the
                                    north side 250S
                                    50 feet east and
                                    50 feet west of
                South              the intersection   1990-19     4-30-90
                                    with County Line
                                    200W
                                    From its terminus
450W                                at 60N (Sycamore
(Stink Factory   Both               Rd.) to a point    1983-20     6-6-83
Rd.)                                2,000 feet south
                                    of County Road 60N
600E             East               From 50 North to   1971-8      7-19-71
                                   100N
                                    From 400 feet
                                    south of the south
                                    end of the bridge
                West               located over       1971-8      7-19-71
                                    Wildcat Creek to
                                    200 feet north of
                                    the north end of
                                    the bridge
Howard County
office building
parking lot
(corner of Union
St. and Taylor
St.) except      —                   —          1983-37     12-12-83
county employees
to which such
spaces in the
parking lot are
assigned
                                    In Indian Heights
Any Sidewalks    —                and all areas of   1996-13     3-4-96
                                    the county
 
(`83 Code, Ch. 72, Sched. I) (Ord. 1979-2, passed 1-15-79) Penalty, see §
10.98
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau; civil penalty for parking violations, see §
10.98
SCHEDULE II: PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, when signs
are erected giving notice thereof, to park a vehicle upon any of the following
streets or places in violation of the corresponding restrictions:
PARKING RESTRICTIONS
Street Side Restriction Ord. No. Date Passed
PARKING RESTRICTIONS
Street      Side  Restriction                                                         Ord.  Date
                                                                                      No.   Passed
Buckeye St. East  No parking from 7:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. between Sycamore and Walnut 1987- 8-10-
                  St.                                                                 15    87
West              No parking from 7:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. in the last two parking     1987- 8-10-
Sycamore    —   spaces at the west end of the north side of the 100 block           15    87
St.
Taylor St.  South No parking from 7:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. west to the alley between   1987- 8-10-
                  Union St. and Main St.                                              15    87
Union St.   West  No parking from 7:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. between Mulberry and Taylor 1987- 8-10-
                  St.                                                                 15    87
                  No parking from 7:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. in one parking space on
West Walnut Both  each side of the pedestrian walkway from the alley on the north     1987- 8-10-
                  side of the 100 block on West Walnut and extending across Walnut    15    87
                  St. to the Courthouse
Howard
County
Parking Lot
located at
the rear or
north side
of the
County
Govern-
mental
Offices
Building    —   No parking from 7:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m, Monday through Friday       1987- 8-10-
(120 East                                                                             15    87
Mulberry
St.) and
located at
the east
side of
Main St.
between
Superior
St. and the
Wildcat
Creek
Ruhl Street
Subdivision       No parking of commercial vehicles, except for commercial vehicles   1990- 10-29-
(any public Both  discharging cargo and providing services to the residents of Ruhl   37    90
dedicated         Street Subdivision
streets)
                  Bus loading zone on 200W beginning 130 feet south of 250S to 210    1989- 11-27-
200W        West  feet south of 250S, to be in effect from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.,    29    89
                  Monday through Friday, such zone to be marked a “Tow Away Zone”
 
   (B)   This schedule does not apply to law enforcement personnel or the
county employees engaged in their official duties. Signs shall be erected by
the County Highway Department indicating the reservation of the parking spaces
provided for in this schedule.
(Ord. 1987-15, passed 8-10-87)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the parking restrictions
concerning commercial vehicles in the Ruhl Street Subdivision shall be fined
$100 and court costs for each violation.
(Ord. 1990-37, passed 10-29-90) Penalty, see §
10.98
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   ALARM SYSTEMS AND AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING DEVICES
      
96.   PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC SWIMMING POOLS AND SPAS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Permanent identification of dogs and cats required
   
90.03   Prohibitions and penalties
   
90.04   Authority of county agent
   
90.05   Apprehension and impoundment of animals
   
90.06   Notice to owner
   
90.07   Redemption and disposition of impounded animals
   
90.08   Disposition of monies collected
   
90.09   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau; civil penalties for dog ordinance violations,
see §
10.98
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter unless the context otherwise indicates:
   ANIMAL. Any live, non-human vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by Department of Animal Services or a
municipal agency, or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding or
caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter or state law.
   AT LARGE. Elsewhere than on the owner’s premises, and:
      (1)   Not restrained by a leash; or
      (2)   Not under the immediate and complete control of a person capable of
controlling such animal.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. Law enforcement officer or authorized employees of the
Department of Animal Services.
   CAT. All domestic members of the feline family of animals.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that according to the records of the Department of
Animal Services:
      (1)   Has aggressively bitten, attacked, or endangered or has inflicted
severe injury or death on a human being on public or private property; or
      (2)   Has been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dog fighting
or is a dog trained for dog fighting;
      (3)   Has been listed as a potentially dangerous dog by the Department of
Animal Services, and exhibits behavior warranting listing as a dangerous dog.
   DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL SERVICES. The animal care and control department of the
Kokomo Humane Society.
   DOG. All domestic members of the canine family of animals
   HARBOR. The actions of any person who permits any animal to habitually
remain or lodge or to be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard, or
place of business, or any premises on which such person resides or controls. An
animal shall be presumed harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three days.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. Howard County Health Department.
   KENNEL. A facility operated principally for the purpose of boarding, housing
or breeding dogs or cats.
   LESS SEVERE INJURY. Any injury caused that results in a minor puncture,
piercing or breaking of the skin made with teeth, fangs or claws of any animal
that does not require extensive medical treatment.
   OWNER. Any person or persons owning or having the care, custody, or control
of any animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, engages in any behavior that
requires a defensive action by any person to prevent bodily injury when the
person and the dog are off the property of the dog;
      (2)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, bites a person causing a less
severe injury as defined;
      (3)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, has killed, seriously bitten,
inflicted injury or otherwise caused injury attacking a domestic animal off the
property of the owner or keeper of the dog;
      (4)   Chases or menaces a person;
      (5)   Runs at large.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals that:
      (1)   Attack passers-by or passing vehicles.
      (2)   Damage public or private property.
      (3)   Are not confined while in estrus (“heat”).
      (4)   Bark, whine, or howl in an excessive or continuous fashion,
unreasonable under the circumstances, as to violate the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood.
      (5)   Do not have a permanent means of identification as provided for in
this chapter.
      (6)   It shall also be a public nuisance to harbor more than four dogs or
cats over the age of four months, unless classified as a kennel.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by leash or confining it within the
real property limits by its owner.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. Means that the dog is securely and humanely confined on
the owner’s property within a house, building, locked pen or other enclosure
that is designed to prevent the potentially dangerous dog from escaping over,
under or through the enclosure (known as the “primary enclosure”). If the dog
is maintained outside, a portion of the owner’s property must be fenced with a
secured perimeter fence of sufficient height and strength to prevent entry by
the public and to prevent the dog’s escape from the owner’s property.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner.
   UNINCORPORATED AREA OF HOWARD COUNTY. All areas of the county not located in
the City of Kokomo and the towns of Russiaville and Greentown.
   WILD ANIMALS. Any non-domesticated animal, with the exception of small non-
poisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small caged birds.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-06, passed 2-18-08; Am. Ord. 2011-BCCO-23, passed 8-15-11)
§ 90.02 PERMANENT IDENTIFICATION OF DOGS AND CATS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person who owns a dog or cat in the unincorporated area of the
county shall ensure that it bears a permanent means of identification at all
times.
   (B)   The means of identification shall be in addition to any tags required
to be worn by dogs or cats by state law and shall be either by means of:
      (1)   A microchip implanted in the dog or cat which bears a registered
identification number and which can be read by a standard microchip scanner; or
      (2)   A permanent tag attached to a durable collar worn at all times and
bearing the owner’s name, address and telephone number.
      (3)   Each veterinarian who implants microchips shall send the updated
microchip information to the Department of Animal Services or other designated
entity by the county at least monthly.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-06, passed 2-18-08)
§ 90.03 PROHIBITIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The following prohibitions and penalties shall apply, and be
enforceable in, the unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow, suffer, or permit an
animal to be at large within the unincorporated area of the county, except that
it shall be permissible during hunting season prescribed by state law for
hunting dogs to be allowed to hunt with their owners on private property when
permission has been obtained from the owner thereof and to hunt on state lands
where allowed.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, molest, or interfere
with any authorized official in the performance of any duty described in this
chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit said animal
to be a public nuisance within the unincorporated area of the county.
Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any owner of any animal to recklessly or
carelessly fail to exercise care and control over said animal in such a way
that the animal is a public nuisance.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor a
dangerous dog or wild animal within the county; provided this section shall not
apply to animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency.
   (F)   For the purpose of this chapter, an animal may be declared dangerous
by the Department of Animal Services. Every person responsible for a
potentially dangerous dog shall:
      (1)   Obtain and maintain a secure enclosure to confine the dog and must
have posted on the premises a clearly visible warning sign, reading in letters
not less than two inches high “Beware of Dog,” at each entry point that informs
both children and adults of the presence of a vicious dog on the property.
      (2)   In order to protect the public and to afford relief from the severe
harm and injury that is likely to result from a dog attack, the owner of a
vicious dog shall obtain and maintain insurance in the minimum amount of
$50,000 to provide for insurance against liability for damage to persons and
property caused by the vicious dog. Insurance shall be provided by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the State of Indiana, and the owner shall
file a certificate of insurance with the Department of Animal Services.
      (3)   A potentially dangerous dog must not be outside a proper enclosure
unless the dog is muzzled and securely restrained by a leash of not more than
six feet in length and is under the control of the owner or competent custodian
18 years of age or older. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will not
cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration but will
prevent it from biting any human or animal. The owner may exercise the dog
outside of its primary enclosure without a muzzle or leash only if the dog
remains on the owner’s property within the secured perimeter fence and only if
the dog remains within the owner’s sight and control at all times and only
members of the owner’s immediate household or persons 18 years of age or older
are allowed within the perimeter fence while the dog is present. When being
transported, such dog must be safely and securely restrained within a vehicle.
      (4)   No potentially dangerous dog shall be chained, tethered or
otherwise tied to any inanimate object, such as a tree, post or building that
is outside its proper enclosure while unattended by the owner or competent
custodian.
      (5)   The owner of a potentially dangerous animal shall consent to
periodic inspections by the Department of Animal Services.
      (6)   The owner of any potentially dangerous dog shall have such dog
permanently identified by means of a microchip at the owner’s expense, and the
owner of any potentially dangerous dog shall provide the Department of Animal
Services with a color photograph of the dog taken within the last 12 months,
suitable for use in identifying the dog.
      (7)   Any potentially dangerous dog, which has escaped from its fenced
enclosure, may be impounded by the Department of Animal Services, whether or
not it has been returned to its enclosure at the time of impoundment. If
impounded pursuant to this division (F), the animal shall not be returned to a
person responsible for it.
   (G)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not more than $2,500. Additionally, upon the third violation of this
chapter, the animal shall be seized and impounded. If such violation results in
the dog causing serious injury to any person, the court may, upon request after
a hearing, order the animal forfeited and/or destroyed.
   (H)   Any potentially dangerous dog found at large or not confined as
required by this chapter may be captured, impounded and it shall be returned to
its owner only if the enforcement authority in its discretion determines that
such return will not result in further or ongoing violations of this chapter.
If such determination cannot be made, or if the dog’s actions have caused
serious injury, the enforcement officer shall apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for an order to dispose of the animal.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-06, passed 2-18-08)
§ 90.04 AUTHORITY OF COUNTY AGENT.
   Any authorized agent of the county is given authority to:
   (A)   Kill any dangerous, or potentially dangerous dog found at large within
the unincorporated area of the county which cannot be safely captured and
impounded by ordinary means; except that every reasonable effort shall be made
to avoid killing an animal which has bitten or is suspected of having bitten a
person or which appears to have rabies. If the killing of the animal cannot
reasonably be avoided, the said authorized agent shall attempt to kill the
animal in such a manner so as to preserve the head thereof intact.
   (B)   Enter upon the land in the unincorporated area of the county when in
pursuit of any animal which the said agent has reasonable cause to believe is
in violation of this chapter, except that such agent is not authorized to enter
any building without consent of the occupant.
   (C)   Issue citations for any alleged violation of this chapter even if not
personally observed by the agent.
   (D)   Do all things necessary to effectuate the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-06, passed 2-18-08)
§ 90.05 APPREHENSION AND IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS.
   It is the duty of persons and agencies, so authorized by the county to
apprehend and impound:
   (A)   Any dog or cat at large, or any dog or cat deemed a public nuisance.
   (B)   Any dog not wearing a proper registration tag.
   (C)   (1)   Any dog or cat not wearing a proper rabies vaccination tag; or
      (2)   Any animal which has bitten or is suspected of having bitten a
person or which appears to have rabies.
   (D)   Any dangerous dog.
   (E)   Any potentially dangerous dog outside of its secure structure.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-06, passed 2-18-08)
§ 90.06 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Not later than three days after impounding of a dog which was wearing an
identification or registration tag at the time of its impoundment, the
caretaker shall notify the owner advising of the impounding of the dog. If the
owner fails to redeem said dog within five days after notice by mail, phone or
electronic mail, the owner loses ownership of the dog and it may be destroyed
or possession given to the Department of Animal Services. This notice provision
shall apply to any animal impounded under this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-06, passed 2-18-08)
§ 90.07 REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any healthy dog or cat apprehended or impounded may be redeemed by the
owner or other persons as authorized in §
90.06 within five days of such apprehension, upon showing that the dog has a
current registration tag and the dog or cat has current rabies vaccination tag,
and the payment of the following fees:
      (1)   If the dog or cat has been apprehended by an agent of the county,
the sum of fee set forth annually by the Department of Animal Services; and
      (2)   A reasonable fee for room and board for each day or fraction
thereof, during which the dog or cat was impounded.
      (3)   After five days, the dog or cat may be destroyed or possession
given to the Department of Animal Services.
      (4)   Divisions (A)(1) through (3) of this section shall apply to any
animal impounded under this chapter.
   (B)   Any animal impounded, for any reason, which appears to any duly
licensed veterinarian to have any infectious or contagious disease, other than
rabies, may be destroyed forthwith.
   (C)   Any person bitten by an animal must report the incident to the County
Health Department.
   (D)   Any dog or cat apprehended and impounded for having bitten a person,
being suspected of having bitten a person, or appearing to have rabies, shall
be assessed by the Department of Animal Services to determine whether the bite
constitutes the dog being dangerous or potentially dangerous. If so assessed
the provisions of this chapter related to those dogs shall supersede this
provision. Otherwise, the dog or cat shall be kept under observation at the
Department of Animal Services for a minimum of ten days unless such dog or cat
shall sooner die. At the expiration of said ten-day period, the animal may be
redeemed by the owner or other person as provided in §
90.06, upon showing that the dog has a current registration tag and the animal
has a rabies vaccination tag and by payment of the fees as set forth in
division (A) hereinabove; provided, however, home quarantine of an owned animal
may be allowed by the County Health Department.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-06, passed 2-18-08)
§ 90.08 DISPOSITION OF MONIES COLLECTED.
   All monies or fines collected pursuant to this ordinance shall be paid to
the County Auditor.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-06, passed 2-18-08)
§ 90.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Department of Animal Services shall be primarily responsible for the
enforcement of this chapter. Additional enforcement shall be through
proceedings brought by the County Attorney or assistant County Attorney
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-3 and the related Indiana statutes referred to therein.
(Ord. 2008-BCC-06, passed 2-18-08)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Policy statement
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practices
   
91.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
91.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
91.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
91.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
91.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
91.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
91.10   Exemptions
   
91.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 91.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the Federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(BCC Ord. 1994-45, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-21, passed 6-20-16)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur. See also, I.C. 22-9.5-2-2.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq. See also, I.C. 22-9.5-2-3.
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6. See also, I.C. 22-9.5-2-4.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
91.04,
91.05,
91.06,
91.07,
91.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residency by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families. See also, I.C. 22-9.5-2-8.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. 
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. A single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of such
family being further defined under FAMILIAL STATUS and §
91.09.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of such person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment;
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
      (5)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (6)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in § 802 of Title 21 of the
United States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries. See also, I.C. 22-9.5-2-11.
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant. See
also, I.C. 22-9.5-2-13.
(BCC Ord. 1994-45, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-21, passed 6-20-16)
§ 91.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
91.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and §
31.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
91.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
91.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(BCC Ord. 1994-45, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-21, passed 6-20-16)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
91.03 and except as exempted by §
91.03(B) and §
91.10, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that;
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            i.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            ii.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            iii.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (3)(c)(iii).
   (J)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(BCC Ord. 1994-45, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-21, passed 6-20-16)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(BCC Ord. 1994-45, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-21, passed 6-20-16)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(BCC Ord. 1994-45, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-21, passed 6-20-16)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
91.03,
91.04,
91.05 or
91.06.
(BCC Ord. 1994-45, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-21, passed 6-20-16)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law.
(BCC Ord. 1994-45, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-21, passed 6-20-16)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2016 BCCO-21, passed 6-20-16)
§ 91.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist an
ELDERLY PERSON (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person a 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(BCC Ord. 1994-45, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-21, passed 6-20-16)
§ 91.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the State Commissioner as set
forth in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the President of the Board of
Commissioners, the Chief Elected Official of the county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the county, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6; and the Chief
Elected Official of the county shall refer all said complaints to the
Commission as provided for under division (A) of this section to said
Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as
provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the county, or the Chief Elected
Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(BCC Ord. 1994-45, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 2016 BCCO-21, passed 6-20-16)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Hazardous material clean-up and reimbursement
   
92.02   Temporary burn ban
   
92.03   Street address numbers
Health Department Service Fees
   
92.15   Authority
   
92.16   Definitions
   
92.17   Fees for services
   
92.18   Collection, accounting and disposition
   
92.19   Violations
Mosquito Control
   
92.30   Definitions
   
92.31   Standing water or flowing water
   
92.32   Inspection
   
92.33   Compliance and enforcement
   
92.34   Hearing procedure
   
92.35   Appeal
Smoke Free Air Regulations
   
92.50   Definitions
   
92.51   Prohibition of smoking; jurisdiction
   
92.52   Prohibitions in enclosed places of employment
   
92.53   Reasonable distance
   
92.54   Exemptions
   
92.55   Prohibition of smoking in outdoor public places
   
92.56   Removal of smoking paraphernalia and signage requirements
   
92.57   Declaration of establishment as nonsmoking
   
92.58   Non-retaliation and non-waiver of rights
   
92.59   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dumping of solid wastes prohibited, see §
50.02
   Food operations, see
Chapter 110
   Retail food and bed and breakfast establishments, see
Chapter 111
   Sewer regulations, see
Chapter 51
   Water regulations, see
Chapter 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CLEAN-UP AND REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   EMERGENCY ACTION. Any action taken to prevent or minimize the harm to human
health, the environment or to property from the uncontrolled release of a
hazardous material.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE AGENCY. The City of Kokomo Fire Department and all
volunteer fire departments servicing the county.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any material or waste that has been determined to be
hazardous or potentially hazardous to human health, the environment or property
by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, Department of Transportation or Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, or the Solid Waste Board. This definition shall also include
all of the hazardous materials identified in 49 C.F.R. § 172.101.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL EMERGENCY. An occurrence that involves the controlled or
imminent uncontrolled release of a hazardous material into the environment and
that creates the possibility of harm to human health, property or the
environment.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. A person who owns hazardous material that is involved in
the emergency, or owns a container or owns or operates a motor vehicle that
contains hazardous material that is involved in the emergency, or one who
causes or substantially contributes to the cause of the emergency, or one who
owns real estate where an emergency occurs and knew or should have known that
hazardous material was being used, stored or transported on the real estate.
   (B)   Payment for clean-up.
      (1)   Person who are responsible parties shall reimburse the emergency
response agency for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in taking
the emergency action.
      (2)   The emergency response agency shall submit a statement of the
charges to the responsible owner within 30 days of the emergency. The statement
shall direct the responsible party to remit payment directly to the emergency
response agency within 30 days of receipt. In the event the responsible party
fails to make full payment within 60 days, the responsible party shall be
subject to the penalty prescribed in §
10.99. Each day that the responsible party fails to make reimbursement 60 days
after written demand shall be considered a separate offense and the responsible
party may be fined as provided in §
10.99 (up to $2,500) for each such violation. This fine shall be in addition to
the continuing duty of the responsible party to reimburse the amount of the
statement.
      (3)   All fines imposed shall be paid to the County Auditor into an
account maintained under this section.
(BCC Ord. 1997-32, passed 7-7-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 TEMPORARY BURN BAN.
   (A)   The Howard County Board of Commissioners, declare and ordain pursuant
to the provisions of I.C. 10-14-3-29, that a state or emergency exists in the
county with respect to fire hazards; and that we hereby invoke ad declare those
portions of the Indiana Code which are applicable to the conditions and have
cause the issuance of this proclamation, to be in full force and effect in the
county until repealed, for the exercise of all necessary emergency authority to
protect the lives and property of the citizens of Howard County.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners also declare that, effective immediately,
the following activities are prohibited in Howard County:
      (1)   Open burning of any kind, including comfort fires, agricultural
fires (including timber or vegetation), burning of debris (including
construction materials) or similar burning; provided, that this ban shall not
apply to fires used for cooking or heating, such as barbeque grills, pits or
fireplaces, so long as such fires are properly contained and monitored and the
wood or charcoal used in such fires is not removed until thoroughly
extinguished; and
      (2)   Use of burn barrels or similar containers for any open burning at
residential, business or commercial structures.
(Ord. 2012-BCCO-17, passed 6-26-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   By no later than October 1, 2021, every house, residence, apartment
and business within the borders of Howard County shall have street address
numbers identifying the location.
   (B)   All street address numbers shall be displayed on a mailbox, mailbox
post, or separate post and shall be easily visible from the road when traveling
in either direction. The street address number display shall be a minimum
height of three feet and a maximum height of five feet above road grade as
measured from the midpoint of the display. Alternatively, if displayed on the
mailbox post, the street address number display may be mounted directly below
the mailbox so long as the midpoint of the sign is no less than two and one-
half feet above road grade. In the event the structures to be identified by the
street address numbers are situated in such a way that the display of those
numbers as the sole means of identification does not adequately identify the
structure in the opinion of the Howard County Plan Commission Director and/or
the Howard County Communications Director, then the owner of that structure may
also be required to display the street address numbers affixed to the structure
in the size and colors as required below. In the event the second display is
necessary, then the Howard County Plan Commission Director shall set forth in
writing to the owner of the structure the reasons for the second display.
   (C)   All street address numbers shall be white reflective lettering on a
green background which can be easily seen when viewed from the street while in
a vehicle. Should a second display be required as set forth above, it is
required that the numbers of the second display be a color contrasting with the
background surface color upon which the display is mounted.
   (D)   There shall be no obstructions preventing the street address numbers
from being seen as noted above.
   (E)   All street address numbers shall be a minimum of three inches in
height and one and one-half inches in width.
   (F)   No occupancy permit for new construction will be issued until proper
numbers are erected either by the contractor or the homeowner.
   (G)   A property with a non-conforming address display of the correct
property address which does not meet the size and color requirements of this
section may continue to be used should it substantially fulfill the intent of
this section and adequately identify the property in the opinion of the Plan
Commission Director and the Communications Director. In the event a non-
conforming address display of the correct address is approved for continued use
under this division, then the owner of the property shall be sent a letter
approving said use by either the Plan Commission Director or the Communications
Director, and a copy be kept on file at the Plan Commission office.
   (H)   This section shall be enforced by the Howard County Plan Commission
Director or Communications Director, or any of their duly authorized
representatives.
   (I)   Notices of violation shall be sent by certified mail by an enforcement
officer and kept in the records of the Howard County Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2021-BCCO-27, passed 7-6-21)
HEALTH DEPARTMENT SERVICE FEES
§ 92.15 AUTHORITY.
   The Howard County Health Department is empowered to establish and collect
fees in accordance with the following definitions and provisions. This
ordinance wholly repeals and replaces all prior ordinances establishing, adding
or amending fees for services charged by the Health Department.
(`83 Code, § 92.20) (Ord. 1983-4, passed 1-31-83; Am. BCC Ord. 1993-32, passed
10-25-93; Am. BCC Ord. 2000-11, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2004-BCC-05, passed 2-
2-04; Am. Ord. 2012-BCCO-11, passed 4-16-12; Am. Ord. 2013-BCCO-23, passed 11-
14-13; Am. Ord. 2014-BCCO-07, passed 3-17-14; Am. Ord. 2015-BCCO-46, passed 12-
21-15)
§ 92.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. An agent in the principle of the Board and Health
Officer as provided for in I.C. 16-20-1-14.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Howard County Health Department, Kokomo, Indiana, as
provided for in I.C. 16-20-2-1.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer as provided for in I.C. 16-20-2-
16.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co- partnership, firm, company,
corporation, or association.
(`83 Code, § 92.21) (Ord. 1983-4, passed 1-31-83; Am. BCC Ord. 1993-32, passed
10-25-93; Am. BCC Ord. 2000-11, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2004-BCC-05, passed 2-
2-04; Am. Ord. BCC-2005-05, passed 9-19-05; Am. Ord. BCC 2005-53, passed 9-19-
05; Am. Ord. 2006-BCC-17, passed 3-7-06; Am. Ord. 2009-BCC-03, passed 2-16-09;
Am. Ord. 2012-BCCO-11, passed 4-16-12; Am. Ord. 2013-BCCO-23, passed 11-4-13;
Am. Ord. 2015-BCCO-46, passed 12-21-15)
§ 92.17 FEES FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   The Howard County Health Department having jurisdiction may charge a
service fee in order to cover the cost, but not exceeding the cost, of
providing to any person the following services:
      (1)   For services provided by the Howard County Health Department Vital
Records Office in providing a copy of a Certificate of Birth or Death,
Correction Affidavits, Legitimations, Paternities, Genealogy Searches,
Lamination Fee, Birth Notifications, Court Order Determining Parentage, and
Birth Certificates prior to 1907 as authorized by I.C. 16-20-1-27.
      (2)   For services provided by the Howard County Health Department
Environmental Health Office provided in the plan review, permitting and
inspection of retail food establishments, seasonal retail food establishments
and temporary retail food establishments as authorized by I.C. 16-20-1-27.
      (3)   For services provided in the permitting and inspection of vending
machines for both food and beverages.
      (4)   For services provided in the permitting, inspection and testing of
all public pools and spas, which includes: private clubs, fitness centers,
rehabilitation centers, motels, apartment complexes, municipalities and
schools. Fees are waived for schools.
      (5)   For services provided in shipping animal heads to the State
Department of Health Rabies Laboratory. The health department pays for shipment
of stray animals heads.
      (6)   For services provided for site evaluation, permitting and
inspection of on-site wastewater treatment systems (septic systems) including:
new construction, permits, replacement permits, site visits (discretionary),
installers/ homeowners, test, installer’s license as authorized by Rule 410 IAC
6-8.1.
      (7)   For services provided by the Howard County Health Department
Environmental Health Office in the permitting, evaluation, and inspection of
tattoo establishments and tattoo artists.
      (8)   For services provided by the Howard County Health Department
Nursing Office in providing adult and child immunizations, tuberculosis skin
tests, and international immunization booklets.
      (9)   For disposition of grant funds from Indiana State Department of
Health, Indiana Department of Environmental Management, Indiana AIDS Fund, and
other entities. All awards, fees, donations, and reimbursements shall be
transferred to the Howard County Health Fund under a designated account number.
      (10)   For services provided by the Howard County Health Department
Environmental Health Office in regulating, inspecting, and abating health
hazards. In the event Howard County and/or Howard County Health Department is
required to bring legal action in connection with the abatement of health
hazards, the individual(s) to whom services have been provided shall, in
addition to any charges, fines or penalties, pay all reasonable attorney fees
incurred by Howard County and/or Howard County Health Department necessary to
abate the hazard.
   (B)   The monies collected in accord with the provisions of this ordinance
shall be used only for the implementation, expansion, or maintenance of the
specific program services from which they are derived according to the
conditions of the grant agreement.
(`83 Code, § 92.22) (Ord. 1983-4, passed 1-31-83; Am. BCC Ord. 1993-32, passed
10-25-93; Am. BCC Ord. 1997-22, passed 6-16-97; Am. BCC Ord. 2000-11, passed 2-
21-00; Am. Ord. 2004-BCC-05, passed 2-2-04; Am. Ord. BCC-2005-05, passed 9-19-
05; Am. Ord. BCC 2005-53, passed 9-19-05; Am. Ord. 2006-BCC-17, passed 3-7-06;
Am. Ord. 2009-BCC-03, passed 2-16-09; Am. Ord. 2010-BCC-19, passed 7-6-10; Am.
Ord. 2012-BCCO-11, passed 4-16-12; Am. Ord. 2012-BCCO-18, passed 8-6-12; Am.
Ord. 2013-BCCO-23, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2014-BCCO-07, passed 3-17-14; Am.
Ord. 2015-BCCO-46, passed 12-21-15)
§ 92.18 COLLECTION, ACCOUNTING AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Collection of fees. The Health Department shall collect all such fees
established as a part of the ordinance in accord with Schedule A in §
92.17. Fees are subject to change without notice when rules set forth and
governed by the state of Indiana are changed by the state and the change
results in an immediate detrimental impact on the budget of the Howard County
Health Department.
   (B)   Accounting for fees. All fees collected by the Health Department shall
be accounted for in detail in each office area, Vital Records, Environmental
Health, and Nursing offices.
   (C)   Disposition of fees. All fees collected by the Health Department shall
be transferred to the Howard County Health Fund.
   (D)   Any person whose check is returned for non-sufficient funds shall be
subject to a fine in addition to the cost of the permit or service which must
be paid in cash.
(`83 Code, § 92.23) (Ord. 1983-4, passed 1-31-83; Am. BCC Ord. 1993-32, passed
10-25-93; Am. BCC Ord. 2000-11, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2004-BCC-05, passed 2-
2-04; Am. Ord. 2006-BCC-17, passed 8-2-06; Am. Ord. BCC-2009-03, passed 2-16-
09; Am. Ord. 2012-BCCO-11, passed 4-16-12; Am. Ord. 2013-BCCO-23, passed 11-4-
13; Am. Ord. 2015-BCCO-46, passed 12-21-15)
§ 92.19 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violations of this subchapter may be prosecuted pursuant to
Indiana Code, and the fees enforced hereby revoking or suspending permits as
may be granted under this ordinance. A refusal to comply with this ordinance by
any person shall be deemed an infraction, and upon request of the Health
Officer or authorized representative, shall be handled by the Health Department
Attorney, or County Attorney or other attorney so authorized by the Department.
All attorney fees and other costs incurred by the Health Department as a result
of this paragraph shall be borne by the violator.
   (B)   Notices of violations. Whenever the Health Officer or designee
determines that there has been a violation of any provision of this subchapter,
the Health Department shall give notice of such violation to the person to whom
the permit or license was issued or should have been issued.
   (C)   Any person affected by notice which has been issued in connection with
the enforcement of any provision of this subchapter request and be granted an
extension of time, when circumstances warrant such an extension, and is in
harmony with the general purpose of this ordinance to safeguard and secure the
public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Howard County.
   (D)   For serious or repeated violations of health guidelines and policies,
or for the interference with the enforcing officer in the performance of his
duties, a permit may be permanently revoked after an opportunity for a hearing
has been provided by the Health Department.
(Ord. 1983-4, passed 1-31-83; Am. BCC Ord. 1993-32, passed 10-25-93; Am. BCC
Ord. 2000-11, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2004-BCC-05, passed 2-2-04; Am. Ord.
2006-BCC-17, passed 8-2-06; Am. Ord. 2009-BCC-03, passed 2-16-09; Am. Ord.
2012-BCCO-11, passed 4-16-12; Am. Ord. 2013-BCCO-23, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord.
2015-BCCO-46, passed 12-21-15)
MOSQUITO CONTROL
§ 92.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. A local board of health as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-210 and
referred to in I.C. 16-20.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST (derived from 68 IAC 9-l-l(b)(2)). A situation in which
the private financial interest of a Howard County Official, Howard County
Official’s spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or un-emancipated
child, may influence the Howard County Official’s judgment in the performance
of a public duty.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The person, appointed as specified in I.C. 16-20-2-16, or
his/her duly authorized representative, as specified in I.C. 16-2-1-14, who may
conduct inspections and make a final decision on an enforcement action.
   HEARING BOARD. Shall be comprised of three individuals, the current Health
Officer or his or her designee, and two current Howard County Board of Health
members or community members appointed by the Board’s president to serve.
   HOWARD COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local Health Department in Howard
County or authorized representative having jurisdiction.
   HOWARD COUNTY OFFICIAL. Any Official of Howard County, Indiana.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction or cessation to prevent the avoidable breeding of mosquitoes.
   INSPECTION. A visit by the regulatory authority to determine whether
standing or flowing water exists on a person’s property which poses an imminent
health hazard.
   ORDER (derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9). A Howard County Health Department
action of particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties,
privileges, immunities, or other legal interests of one or more specific
persons.
   PERSON. A person, individual, association, firm, corporation, agency,
municipality, government, governmental subdivision, institution, public body;
or other legal entity.
   STANDING WATER OR FLOWING WATER. Any body of water in which mosquitoes
breed, or are likely to breed.
(Ord. 2015-BCCO-34, passed 12-21-15)
§ 92.31 STANDING WATER OR FLOWING WATER.
   (A)   General. No person, individual, association, firm, corporation,
agency, municipality, government, governmental subdivision, institution, public
body; or other legal entity shall cause, maintain, or permit any collection of
standing or flowing water in which mosquitoes breed, or are likely to breed.
   (B)   Such collection of water shall be treated and abated, so as to control
effectively such breeding in one or more of the following ways:
      (1)   Filling.
      (2)   Drainage.
      (3)   Removal of all articles holding or likely to hold water.
      (4)   Application of adulticide and larvicide products.
      (5)   Removal and periodic control of vegetable growth.
      (6)   Stocking water with mosquito larvae-destroying fish in sufficient
numbers to eliminate all larvae before pupation.
      (7)   Any other method or way approved by the Health Department.
(Ord. 2015-BCCO-34, passed 12-21-15)
§ 92.32 INSPECTION.
   General. The Howard County Health Department may inspect a person’s
premises, or property, should a complaint by any person be formally filed at
the Health Department; said complaint shall describe the conditions that exist
on said property, which are likely to promote the breeding of mosquitoes.
Should an imminent health hazard be found to exist, the Howard County Health
Department will order the hazard abated by the person owning the property. The
Health Department may conduct a follow-up inspection to determine compliance
and whether the hazard still exists.
(Ord. 2015-BCCO-34, passed 12-21-15)
§ 92.33 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Fines and penalties. The penalty for failure to comply with an order
from the Howard County Health Department shall not exceed $2,500.
   (B)   Any fines or penalties collected shall be deposited into the Health
Fund.
(Ord. 2015-BCCO-34, passed 12-21-15)
§ 92.34 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person upon which a violation is alleged to exist who disputes the
existence of a violation, or disputes the nature of the abatement action
ordered in the abatement notice, may, within ten calendar days of service of
the abatement notice, serve upon the Chairman of the Board of Health, County
Health Officer, designee or agent, a written request for a hearing. The written
request does not need to be in any particular form, but shall clearly indicate
that a hearing is requested, and shall set out the nature of the individual’s
disagreement with the content of the abatement notice. Failure to serve timely
notice shall result in waiver of any dispute or objection to the order.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the written request for a hearing, the Board of Health
Chairman, or County Health Officer, shall schedule the matter with the Hearing
Board. The Hearing Board shall function as hearing body to adjudicate the
matter.
   (C)   The Howard County Health Department by its Board of Health Chairman,
County Health Officer, or designee shall give written notice to the party
requesting the hearing of the date and time of the hearing. Such notice shall
be given no less than five calendar days prior to the date set for hearing. A
shorter period of time may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed
upon.
   (D)   At the hearing, which may be adjourned from time to time, it shall be
the Howard County Health Officer’s or his or her designee’s burden to go
forward with evidence sufficient to demonstrate that a violation exists, and
that the actions required are reasonably calculated to abate the violation
within a reasonable period of time. The party requesting the hearing shall have
the right to dispute the existence of the violation, the reasonableness of the
remedy, or the reasonableness of the time allowed to remedial action. The party
requesting the hearing may propose alternative remedies or time periods for
remedial action, or alternate remediation plans.
   (E)   All such hearings shall be open to the public pursuant to Indiana
statutes on open meetings.
   (F)   Upon conclusion of the presentation of evidence and oral argument, if
any, the Howard County Board of Health’s Hearing Board shall deliberate and
render a decision either confirming, amending or rescinding the disputed
content of the abatement notice.
   (G)   All time parameters set out in the abatement notice for completion of
compliance actions shall be tolled, pending the outcome of the Hearing Board’s
decision. In cases where the actions of the Health Officer are upheld, or are
upheld as modified by the Hearing Board, it shall be the responsibility of the
Hearing Board, in its decision, to establish time periods for completion of
compliance activities held in abeyance during the hearing process.
(Ord. 2015-BCCO-34, passed 12-21-15)
§ 92.35 APPEAL.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-l-6-9(e), a person who received a penalty under this
resolution may appeal the order imposing the penalty to a court of record in
Howard County, Indiana no later than 60 days after the day on which the order
is entered.
(Ord. 2015-BCCO-34, passed 12-21-15)
SMOKE FREE AIR REGULATIONS
§ 92.50 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this subchapter, shall be
construed as defined in this section:
   ASHTRAY.  Any receptacle that is used for disposing of smoking materials,
including, but not limited to ash and filters.
   BAR. An establishment used primarily for the sale of alcoholic beverages for
consumption by patrons on the premises and which holds a retailer's permit
under the laws of the State of Indiana. The term includes, but is not limited
to, taverns, nightclubs, and cocktail lounges.
   BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation, or
other business entity, either for-profit or not-for-profit, including, but not
limited to, retail establishments where goods or services are provided to the
public, and other entities where accounting, counseling, legal, medical,
dental, engineering, architectural, or other professional services are
delivered.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine or
any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used by a person
to simulate smoking through inhalation of vapor or aerosol from the product.
The term includes any such device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed,
or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, e-hookah, or vape pen or under any
other product name or descriptor.
   EMPLOYEE.  A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect wages or profit, and a person who volunteers his or her
services.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, association, municipal corporation, trust, or
nonprofit entity that employs the services of one or more individual employees.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded on at
least two sides by walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed. A wall
includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other physical barrier,
whether temporary or permanent and whether or not containing openings of any
kind.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical, or
psychological conditions, including but not limited to, hospitals,
rehabilitation hospitals, addiction treatment hospitals and facilities, weight
control clinics, nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill,
laboratories, and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists,
physicians, psychiatrists, dentists, and all specialists within these
professions. The term HEALTH CARE FACILITY shall also include all waiting
rooms, hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within healthcare
facilities.
   HOOKAH. A water pipe and any associated products and devices which are used
to produce fumes, smoke, and/or vapor from the burning of material including,
but not limited to, tobacco, shisha, or other plant matter.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An area under the control of a public or private
employer including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges,
restrooms, conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias,
hallways, and vehicles.
   PLAYGROUND. Any park or recreational area designed in part to be used by
children that has play or sports equipment installed or that has been
designated or landscaped for play or sports activities, or any similar facility
located on public or private school grounds.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the
owner, lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively
for club purposes at all times, which is operated solely for a recreational,
fraternal, social, patriotic, political, benevolent, or athletic purpose, but
not for pecuniary gain, and which only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to
its operation. The affairs and management of the organization are conducted by
a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the
members at an annual meeting. The organization has established by-laws and/or a
constitution to govern its activities. The organization has been granted an
exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C.
Section 501.
   PUBLIC EVENT. An event which is open to and may be attended by the general
public, including but not limited to, such events as concerts, fairs, farmers'
markets, festivals, parades, performances, and other exhibitions, regardless of
any fee or age requirement.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An area to which the public is invited or in which the public
is permitted, including but not limited to, banks, bars, educational
facilities, gaming facilities, health care facilities, hotels and motels,
laundromats, public transportation vehicles and facilities, reception areas,
restaurants, retail food production and marketing establishments, retail
service establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters,
and waiting rooms. A private residence is not a PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used
as a childcare, adult day care, or health care facility.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, as
well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall include a bar area
within the restaurant.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A business which:
      (1)   Is primarily engaged in the sale of tobacco products and smoking
instruments intended for off-premises consumption or use, with at least 75% of
the gross revenues of the business resulting from such sales;
      (2)   Prohibits persons under 18 years of age from entering the premises;
      (3)   Does not sell, offer or allow on-premises consumption of food or
beverages, including alcoholic beverages;
      (4)   Is a stand-alone business with no other businesses or residential
property attached to the premises;
      (5)   Allows smoking only for the purpose of sampling tobacco products
for making retail purchase decisions;
   SERVICE LINE. An indoor or outdoor line in which one or more persons are
waiting for or receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service
involves the exchange of money, including but not limited to, ATM lines,
concert lines, food vendor lines, movie ticket lines, and sporting event lines.
   SHOPPING MALL. A public walkway or hall area that serves to connect retail
or professional establishments.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated tobacco or plant
product intended for inhalation, including hookah and marijuana, in any manner
or in any form. SMOKING also includes the use of an e-cigarette which creates a
vapor, in any manner or in any form, or the use of any oral smoking device for
the purpose of circumventing the prohibition of smoking in this subchapter.
   SPORTS ARENA. A place where people assemble to engage in physical exercise,
participate in athletic competition, or witness sports or other events,
including sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing arenas,
swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, and bowling alleys.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that is made from or derived from tobacco, or
that contains nicotine, that is intended for human consumption or is likely to
be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled or
ingested by any other means, including, but not limited to, a cigarette, a
cigar, hookah, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. TOBACCO PRODUCT
also means electronic smoking devices and any component or accessory used in
the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters, rolling papers, pipes,
and liquids used in electronic smoking devices, whether or not they contain
nicotine. TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include drugs, devices, or combination
products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
(Ord. 2017 BCCO-10, passed 3-6-17)
§ 92.51 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below and in §
92.54, smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within Howard
County including but not limited to, the following places:
      (1)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries, and museums;
      (2)   Areas available to the general public in businesses and non-profit
entities patronized by the public, including but not limited to, banks,
laundromats, professional offices, and retail service establishments;
      (3)   Bars;
      (4)   Bingo facilities;
      (5)   Child care and adult day care facilities;
      (6)   Convention facilities;
      (7)   Educational facilities, both public and private;
      (8)   Elevators;
      (9)   Gaming facilities;
      (10)   Health care facilities;
      (11)   Hotels and motels;
      (12)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other
multiple-unit residential facilities;
      (13)   Polling places;
      (12)   Private clubs;
      (13)   Public events, subject to §
92.53 which permits a designated smoking area located more than eight feet from
all public event activities;
      (14)   Public transportation vehicles, including buses and taxicabs,
under the authority of Howard County, and ticket, boarding, and waiting areas
of public transportation facilities, including bus, train, and airport
facilities;
      (15)   Restaurants;
      (16)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and other common-
use areas;
      (17)   Retail stores;
      (18)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including
school buildings, under the control of an agency, board, commission, committee
or council of Howard County to the extent the place is not subject to the
jurisdiction of the City of Kokomo, Indiana;
      (19)   Service lines;
      (20)   Shopping malls;
      (21)   Sports arenas, including enclosed places and outdoor arenas;
      (22)   Theaters and other facilities primarily used for exhibiting motion
pictures, stage dramas, lectures, musical recitals, or other similar
performances;
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to and be effective in all areas of Howard
County (including Greentown and Russiaville), except for the corporate limits
of the City of Kokomo so long as Kokomo’s Ordinance No. 6445 remains in effect.
(Ord. 2017 BCCO-10, passed 3-6-17)
§ 92.52 PROHIBITIONS IN ENCLOSED PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas of places of
employment without exception. This includes, without limitation, common work
areas, auditoriums, classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, private offices,
elevators, hallways, medical facilities, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs,
restrooms, vehicles, and all other enclosed facilities.
   (B)   The prohibition on smoking shall be communicated to all existing
employees by the effective date of this subchapter and to all prospective
employees upon their application for employment.
(Ord. 2017 BCCO-10, passed 3-6-17)
§ 92.53 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking shall be prohibited outdoors within a reasonable distance from an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited by this subchapter, so as to insure
that tobacco smoke does not enter into establishments designated as smoke free
under this subchapter through entrances, windows, ventilation intakes or other
means. As used in this section, the term REASONABLE DISTANCE shall mean no
closer than eight feet to the enclosed area.
(Ord. 2017 BCCO-10, passed 3-6-17)
§ 92.54 EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the smoking prohibitions in §
92.51, smoking is permitted in the following locations:
   (A)   Private residences, unless used as a licensed childcare, adult day
care or health care facility.
   (B)   Retail tobacco stores.
   (C)   None of the areas set forth in this section shall be exempt from the
provisions of this subchapter if smoke from any area enters, either directly or
indirectly, through entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or other means,
where smoking is otherwise prohibited by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017 BCCO-10, passed 3-6-17)
§ 92.55 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN OUTDOOR PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in the following outdoor places:
   (A)   Outdoor seating areas of restaurants, bars, private clubs, and
businesses except those restricted to individuals over the age of 18 years of
age;
   (B)   In all outdoor arenas, stadiums, and amphitheaters. Smoking shall also
be prohibited in and within eight feet of bleachers and grandstands for use by
spectators at sporting and other public events;
   (C)   Within eight feet of all outdoor playgrounds;
   (D)   Within eight feet of all outdoor public transportation stations,
platforms, and shelters under the authority of Howard County, Indiana; and
   (E)   In outdoor common areas of apartment buildings, condominiums, trailer
parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other multi-unit residential
facilities, except in designated smoking areas, not to exceed 25% of the total
outdoor common area, which must be located at least eight feet outside
entrances, operable windows, and ventilation systems of enclosed areas where
smoking is prohibited.
(Ord. 2017 BCCO-10, passed 3-6-17)
§ 92.56 REMOVAL OF SMOKING PARAPHERNALIA AND SIGNAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this subchapter by the owner, operator, manager, or other person
having control of the area.
   (B)   An owner, operator, manager, or official in charge of a public place
or place of employment, except vehicles, shall post conspicuous signs at each
outdoor entrance that read “Howard County Prohibits Smoking Within 8 Feet of
this Entrance”.
(Ord. 2017 BCCO-10, passed 3-6-17)
§ 92.57 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NONSMOKING.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Ordinance, an owner, operator,
manager, or other person in control of an establishment, facility, or outdoor
area may declare that the entire establishment, facility, or outdoor areas are
a smoke free place.
(Ord. 2017 BCCO-10, passed 3-6-17)
§ 92.58 NON-RETALIATION AND NON- WAIVER OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any
manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, customer, or
resident of a multiple-unit residential facility because that employee,
applicant, customer, or resident exercises any rights afforded by this
subchapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this subchapter.
Notwithstanding § 92.60, violation of this subsection shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed $1,000 for each violation.
   (B)   An employee who works in an outdoor area restricted to individuals
over the age of 18 years of age where an employer allows smoking does not waive
or otherwise surrender any legal rights the employee may have against the
employer or any other party.
(Ord. 2017 BCCO-10, passed 3-6-17)
§ 92.59 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A) The Howard County Health Department shall enforce this subchapter and
may, while an establishment is undergoing otherwise mandated health-related
inspections, inspect for compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this subchapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in Howard County.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this subchapter
may initiate enforcement with the Howard County Department of Health.
   (D)   An owner, manager, operator, or employee of an establishment regulated
by this subchapter shall inform person(s) in violation of the appropriate
provisions thereof and shall ask those persons to refrain from smoking. If the
person does not stop smoking, the owner, manager, operator, or employee shall
refuse service and shall immediately ask the person to leave the premises. If
the person in violation refuses to leave the premises, the owner, manager,
operator or employee shall contact a law enforcement agency.
   (E)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
section, the Howard County Legal Department or any person aggrieved by the
failure of the owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of a
injunctive relief to enforce those provisions in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2017 BCCO-10, passed 3-6-17)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any owner, manager, operator, or other person in control of an
establishment, facility, or outdoor area found to be in violation of §§
92.50 through
92.59 shall, when found to be in violation be fined as follows:
      (1)   The issuance of a verbal and written warning for the first
violation.
      (2)   A fine of $200 for the second violation within the same calendar
year.
      (3)   A fine of $400 for the third violation within the same calendar
year.
      (4)   A fine of $800 for the fourth violation within the same calendar
year.
      (5)   A fine of $1,500 for each additional violation occurring thereafter
within the same calendar year.
      (6)   Repeated violation of §§
92.50 through
92.59 is declared to be a public nuisance, which may be abated by the Howard
County Legal Department seeking a restraining order, preliminary and permanent
injunction, or other means provided for by law, and may bring action to recover
the costs of the nuisance abatement.
      (7)   The Howard County Legal Department is authorized to bring civil
action against any alleged violator of §§
92.50 through
92.59 for all unpaid fines, and any and all expenses incurred by Howard County
to enforce the provisions of those sections to seek compliance from the alleged
violator.
      (8)   Each day on which a violation of §§
92.50 through
92.59 occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation. Each
violation of those sections shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2017 BCCO-10, passed 3-6-17)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Conduct in parks
   
93.03   Operation of vehicles in parks
   
93.04   Park hours
Cross-reference:
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see §
31.04
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY PARKS. Any area within the geographic confines of the county which
has been designated by the County Park and Recreation Board as a county park or
recreation area. The boundaries of such parks or recreation areas shall be
those boundaries established by the Park and Recreation Board.
(`83 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 1978-15, passed 7-10-78)
§ 93.02 CONDUCT IN PARKS.
   No person in any county park shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Throw, discharge or otherwise place on the park ground or in the
waters any substance which will result in the pollution of the water.
   (B)   Dump, deposit, or leave any garbage, refuse or other trash within the
boundaries of any such park, with the exception of garbage, refuse or other
trash originating and being created within the limits of any such park. Any
garbage, refuse or other trash shall be placed in containers placed in the park
for those purposes.
   (C)   Unless authorized by the Park and Recreation Board, hunt, trap,
molest, harm, harass or injure any form of wildlife or plant life found within
the boundaries of the park.
   (D)   Fish in the waters of the park unless allowed by the laws of the state
and only in places not prohibited by the County Park and Recreation Board,
which shall have power to set aside areas for those purposes.
   (E)   Without specific written permission from the Park and Recreation
Board, carry or discharge within the limits of the park any firearms, air
rifles, missile- throwing devices or any other weapons.
   (F)   Start or use any fire other than in an oven or grill and then only for
culinary purposes. Written permission must be obtained from the Park and
Recreation Director for any other fire or camp fire.
   (G)   Drive or walk on any drive or trail which has been posted with
appropriate signs or barricades prohibiting such driving or walking, nor shall
any person operate a motor vehicle in any area of such park not specifically
set aside for vehicular use.
   (H)   Post, display or expose within the park without written permission
from the Park and Recreation Board any sign, advertisement, circular, notice,
emblem or design.
   (I)   Camp overnight without specific written permission of the Park and
Recreation Director.
   (J)   Disobey any commands, directions or orders issued by the Park and
Recreation Board or its duly authorized officers and agents.
   (K)   Engage in gambling, consume alcoholic beverages, be intoxicated or do
any indecent, lewd or improper act therein.
   (L)   Swim, wade, dive or jump into any lake, river, stream, pond or
reservoir in any park not specifically designated as a swimming area by the
Park and Recreation Board and posted as such with appropriate signs.
   (M)   Swim, wade, dive or jump into any water in any park designated as a
swimming area unless a lifeguard employed and under the supervision of the Park
and Recreation Board is on duty.
(`83 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 1978-15, passed 7-10-78; Am. Ord. 1980-16, passed 8-
18-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 OPERATION OF VEHICLES IN PARKS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ORV’S. Any motor or power driven vehicle or contrivance providing a means of
way and which may or may not be specifically designed for off-road use.
   VEHICLES. Any motor or power driven vehicle or contrivance providing a means
of way.
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle or ORV including but not limited to
motorcycles, trail bikes, snowmobiles, and four-wheel drive vehicles in any and
all county parks except on designated roadways and trails and in specific areas
set aside for their use. The County Parks and Recreation Board shall have the
authority to designate what areas, if any, shall be set aside for the operation
of vehicles or ORV’S in the county parks.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring the Parks and
Recreation Board to set aside park areas for vehicular or ORV operation.
   (D)   No person shall operate vehicles or ORV’S, including but not limited
to motorcycles, trail bikes, snowmobiles and four-wheel drive vehicles, on such
designated roadways and trails in a manner so as to endanger the lives or
property of others or to disturb the peace and tranquility of the county parks.
(`83 Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 1977-20, passed 5-23-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 PARK HOURS.
   The County Park and Recreation Board shall have the authority to specify the
hours during which the county parks shall be open for use. Such hours may be
designated by resolution of the Park and Recreation Board. No person shall be
present in the county parks at any time other than during those hours so
specified. However, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the
Park and Recreation Board from excepting from the operation of this provision
any special use of park facilities by individuals or organizations.
(`83 Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 1978-15, passed 7-10-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
94.01   Construction of private driveways; standards adopted
   
94.02   Underground and buried utility district
Cross-reference:
   Major streets and highways and subdivision control regulations, see
Chapter 152
§ 94.01 CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS; STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The County Highway Department shall establish uniform standards for
the construction of private driveways which cross or otherwise enter upon
county roads, highways, ditches and their related easements.
   (B)   The uniform standards provided for in division (A) are hereby adopted
by reference and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
   (C)   No resident of the county shall construct a driveway across a county
road, highway, ditch or related easement until he or she has been granted
permission to do so by the County Highway Department.
(BCC Ord. 1989-18, passed 8-21-89) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 UNDERGROUND AND BURIED UTILITY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The county hereby establishes an Underground and Buried Utilities
District ("Area") to be in effect commencing on May 1, 2017, and to apply
throughout the unincorporated areas of Howard County to all county rights-of-
way and previously dedicated utility easements.
   (B)   From and after the effective date of this section, no person,
corporation, or utility shall erect or construct within the county's rights-of-
way or previously dedicated utility easements, any pole, overhead line, or
associated overhead structure used or useful in supplying electric,
communication or similar associated services, without first obtaining the
written consent and approval of the County Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Any existing overhead poles, wires, and/or utility transmission lines
may remain within the county's rights-of-way or granted utility easements, but
may not be replaced or relocated without prior written authorization of the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2017-BCCO-17, passed 5-1-17)
CHAPTER 95: ALARM SYSTEMS AND AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING DEVICES
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Permit required
   
95.03   Permit application
   
95.04   Issuance of permit; fee
   
95.05   Change in information
   
95.06   Location of permit
   
95.07   Automatic telephone dialing devices
   
95.08   False alarm
   
95.09   Notice of violations
   
95.10   Service of notice: contents
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any device used for the detection of an unauthorized entry or
attempted entry into a building, structure, or facility or for alerting others
of the commission of an unlawful act within a building, structure, facility or
grounds, which when activated causes notification to be made directly or
indirectly to the Howard County Sheriff’s Department (“HCSD”). An ALARM SYSTEM
shall not include:
      (1)   An alarm installed on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   An alarm system designated so that no notification is given to the
HCSD until after the occupants, an agent of the owner or lessee, or an agent of
an alarm system business have checked the alarm site and determined that the
alarm was the result of criminal activity of the kind for which the alarm
system was designated to give notice.
      (3)   An alarm installed upon premises occupied by the United States, the
State of Indiana, or any political subdivision thereof.
   AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING DEVICE. Any device, excluding a medical alert
system, connected to an alarm system which automatically sends a pre-recorded
message or coded signal to a law enforcement agency indicating the activation
of the alarm system.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm eliciting a response by HCSD where there is no obvious
evidence of an attempted unlawful intrusion or entry (e.g., pry marks, broken
windows, footprints and the like), as determined by the responding officers). A
FALSE ALARM, for purposes of this chapter, does not include alarms triggered by
atmospheric conditions or other circumstances not reasonably under the control
of the permit holder or installer.
   HOWARD COUNTY. The geographic territory of Howard County, Indiana, excluding
the City of Kokomo and the towns of Greentown and Russiaville.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The individual, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity to whom an alarm system permit is issued.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-67, passed 12-19-05)
§ 95.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person in control of property to operate, cause
to be operated, or permit the operation of an alarm system on that property in
the county unless a current permit has been obtained from HCSD. Failure to
secure a permit within ten days of installation (including installation of a
new alarm system by a different vendor) will constitute violation of this
chapter; provided, however, a person in control of property which has an alarm
system existing at the time this chapter is enacted shall have 90 days from the
effective date of this chapter to obtain a permit.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-67, passed 12-19-05)
§ 95.03 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a permit for the operation of an alarm system shall be
made by a person or legal entity having control over the property on which the
alarm system is installed and operated.
   (B)   The application shall be made in writing to the HCSD on a form
designated by the county for that purpose. The application shall include at
least the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of each person in control
of the property; the applicant’s e-mail address if the applicant consents to
contact by e-mail.
      (2)   The street address of the property on which the alarm system is to
be or has been installed and operated.
      (3)   Any business name used for the premises on which the alarm system
is to be or has been installed and operated.
      (4)   Whether the alarm system or systems are or are not local alarms and
whether the alarm system or systems are designated to give notice of a
burglary, hold-up, or of other type of emergency.
      (5)   The name of the person or alarm system business who will install or
has installed the alarm system.
      (6)   The name and telephone number of two persons or of an alarm system
business which are able to and have agreed:
         (a)   To receive notification at any time;
         (b)   To come to the alarm site within 30 minutes after receiving a
request from the HCSD to do so; and
         (c)   To grant access to the alarm site and to deactivate the system
if it becomes necessary.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-67, passed 12-19-05)
§ 95.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   The HCSD shall issue an alarm system permit to the person or other
entity in control of the property upon submission of an application therefor in
accordance with this section, unless the HCSD finds that any statement made in
the application was incomplete or false. Should the property in which an alarm
system is located change ownership, or should the entity in control of the
property change, a new application for a permit must be made within 30 days.
The permits are not transferable.
   (B)   The fee for an alarm system permit will be $10 for a residential
property and $25 for a commercial property for each calendar year. Each and
every permit issued prior to July 1 of any year shall be charged at the full
rate. Each and every permit issued on or after July 1 of any year shall be
charged at one-half of the regular rate.
   (C)   On or before December 1 of each calendar year, the HCSD shall send a
notice of renewal to each permit holder at the address shown on the permit
holder’s application, including an e-mail address if so authorized by the
applicant on the application form. However, failure to receive notice from the
HCSD shall not excuse the permit holder from renewing the permit or from any
penalty for failure to renew the permit.
   (D)   A permit issued pursuant to this section shall be personal to the
permit holder and is not transferable.
   (E)   A permit issued pursuant to this section may be suspended or revoked
pursuant to the conditions and procedures established in §
95.99.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-67, passed 12-19-05)
§ 95.05 CHANGE IN INFORMATION.
   The permit holder shall promptly notify the HCSD in writing of any change in
the information contained in the permit application.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-67, passed 12-19-05)
§ 95.06 LOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The permit holder for an alarm system shall keep the permit at the alarm
site in a location which is visible to any law enforcement official who
responds to an alarm.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-67, passed 12-19-05)
§ 95.07 AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any automatic
telephone device or attachment which automatically selects any telephone line
leading into the communication center of HCSD and then transfers any pre-
recorded message or signal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell or install any automatic telephone device
which automatically selects any telephone line leading into the communication
center of the HCSD and then transmits any pre- recorded message or signal.
   (C)   Any person who operates or uses an automatic telephone device at this
time this chapter becomes effective shall have 60 days to comply with the
requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-67, passed 12-19-05)
§ 95.08 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for a person who controls property on which an alarm
system is installed to issue, cause to be issued, allow or permit the issuance
of false alarm.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-67, passed 12-19-05)
§ 95.09 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever an officer of the HCSD, in his or her sole discretion based upon
the circumstances, shall find that the owner or operator of any alarm system
has committed any of the acts which have been declared unlawful by any
provision of this chapter, the officer shall give written notice to the person
of the violation in the manner directed in §
95.10 (“Notice of Violation”).
(Ord. 2005-BCC-67, passed 12-19-05)
§ 95.10 SERVICE OF NOTICE: CONTENTS.
   (A)   An officer of the HCSD shall notify the owner or operator of an alarm
system, or his representative, of any violation of this chapter by presenting
the person found in possession of or in charge of the alarm system with a
Notice of Violation. If the officer shall not find any person in possession or
in charge of the premises, or if the person is a child or incapable of
receiving the notice, the officer shall notify the owner of operator thereof by
posting or attaching a Notice of Violation in a conspicuous place upon the
premises and the person shall be bound thereby.
   (B)   All Notices of Violations, as required to be served by this section,
shall be executed by the officer in duplicate. One copy shall be served upon
the violator and the other copy shall be retained by the HCSD.
   (C)   All Notices of Violations shall be numbered and shall contain at least
the following information:
      (1)   The specific violation with which the violator is charged;
      (2)   The name and address of the person who controls property on which
the alarm system is installed;
      (3)   The location of the violation;
      (4)   The signature of the officer;
      (5)   The badge number, if any, of the officer;
      (6)   The date of the violation.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-67, passed 12-19-05)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The following fines shall be imposed for violations of this chapter:
      (1)   Upon the first Notice of Violation issued for false alarms or
operation of an illegal telephone dialing device, no fine shall be charged, but
a record of the violation shall be made.
      (2)   Upon the second Notice of Violation for a false alarm or operation
of an illegal telephone dialing device, a fine of $25 is hereby imposed.
      (3)   Upon the third Notice of Violation, and upon each and every other
Notice of Violation thereafter, a fine of $50 is hereby imposed for false
alarms or operation of an illegal telephone dialing device.
      (4)   A fine of $100 is hereby imposed for failure to obtain or renew a
permit as required by §
95.02, or the failure to pay the permit fee imposed under §
95.04.
      (5)   All fines imposed by this division (A) shall be paid to the HCSD
within 30 days after the Notice of Violation is served. In the event such fines
are not paid as required, penalties may be imposed in accordance with division
(B) of this section. All fines collected shall be deposited in the County
General Fund.
   (B)   The County Attorney is hereby authorized to institute court action
under the authority of I.C. 36-1-6-3(b) or I.C. 36-1-6-4 to enforce any
provisions of this chapter, including the payment of fines. In such event, the
court is authorized to impose, in addition to any unpaid fines imposed under
division (A) of this section, penalties of up to $2,500 pursuant to §
10.99 of the Howard County Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   Upon 20 days prior written notice to a permit holder and the
opportunity to be heard, the HCSD (in addition to the imposition of fines) may
revoke a permit issued under §
95.02 after the fourth notice of violation given in any one calendar year. Any
such revocation shall be in writing and the permit holder may not apply for a
new permit until 60 days after the date of revocation.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-67, passed 12-19-05)
CHAPTER 96: PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC SWIMMING POOLS AND SPAS
Section
   
96.01   Title
   
96.02   Purpose
   
96.03   Authority
   
96.04   Adoption by reference
   
96.05   Definitions
   
96.06   Permits
   
96.07   Permit suspension
   
96.08   Minimum requirements
   
96.09   Certified pool operator certification
   
96.10   Inspection of public and semi-public pools
   
96.11   410 I.A.C. 6-2.1 reasons for closure
   
96.12   Additional requirements
   
96.13   Compliance and enforcement
   
96.14   Appeals
   
96.15   Conflict of interest
§ 96.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all Ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall be
known as the Public and Semi-Public Swimming Pool/Spa Ordinance of Howard
County, and may be cited as such and will be referred to herein as “this
chapter”.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 96.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard public health and assure that
all swimming pools are safe for use. It establishes definitions; sets standards
for management and personnel, pool operations and equipment and facilities, and
provides for public and semi-public pool permits, inspections, fines and
employee restrictions.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 96.03 AUTHORITY.
   The Regulatory Authority is hereby authorized to issue Public and Semi-
Public Pool and Spa Permits, collect permit fees and fines, perform
inspections, order or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
chapter, and is otherwise authorized to perform all actions necessary for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 96.04 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Title 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1, Public and Semi-Public Pools, as amended, and 675
I.A.C. 20-1 Indiana Swimming Pool Code, second edition, are hereby incorporated
by reference in this chapter, as may be amended from time to time, as the same
published in the Indiana Register of the Indiana Administrative Code with
effective dates fixed therein. Copies of 410 I.A.C 6-2.1 et seq. and 675 I.A.C.
20-1 et seq. are available and on file in the office of the County Health
Department.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 96.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCREDITING ORGANIZATION. An independent organization, such as the National
Swimming Pool Foundation, that is qualified to train, certify, and re-certify a
pool operator.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. A local board of health as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-210 and
referred to in I.C. 16-20.
   CERTIFICATION DOCUMENT. A certificate, letter, or other document which
includes the expiration date that verifies the individual has passed an
accredited examination given by an accredited testing service.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. As derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-1-1 (b)(2), means a
situation in which the private financial interest of the County Official,
County Official’s spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or
unemancipated child, may influence the County Official’s judgment in the
performance of a public duty. (Note: The County Officials should follow the
code of ethics if a code of ethics was established for County Officials.)
   CPO. A certified pool operator that is recognized by an accredited
organization, such as the National Swimming Pool Foundation, and/or has been
recognized by the County Health Department.
   DEPARTMENT. The Indiana State Department of Health or its authorized
representative.
   HEALTH OFFICER(S). A medical doctor serving as the executive officer for the
County Health Department and secretary for the County Board of Health.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a Hearing Officer in proceedings. The Hearing Officer is not the
Health Officer or any other employee of the County Health Department. Examples
of Hearing Officer could be the County Board of Health, a subcommittee of
County Board of Health, a subcommittee of health professionals from the
community or other non-biased third party appointed by the Board of Health.
   HOWARD COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local health department in Howard
County or authorized representative having jurisdiction over a public or semi-
public pool.
   HOWARD COUNTY OFFICIAL. Any Official of Howard County, Indiana.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction or cessation of operation to prevent injury or illness based on the:
      (1)   Number of potential injuries or illnesses; and
      (2)   Nature, severity, and duration of the anticipated injury or
illness.
   INSPECTION. A visit by the Regulatory Authority to determine compliance with
pool laws.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to the operator.
   OPERATOR. The person or corporation that has primary oversight
responsibility for operation of the pool through ownership, or lease or
contractual agreement (permittee).
   ORDER. As derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9, means a County Health Department
action of particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties,
privileges, immunities, or other legal interests of one or more specific
persons. The term includes a permit.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person or corporation to operate a public or semi-public pool.
   PERMITTEE. The person, association, corporation, individual, partnership, or
other legal entity that owns the pool and whose name appears on the permit.
   POOL. Any structure, basin, chamber, or tank containing an artificial body
of water for swimming, bathing, competition, relaxation, therapeutic, or
recreational use. All spas, baby pools, lazy rivers, plunge pools and the like
are considered pools for the purpose of this chapter.
   PUBLIC POOL. Any pool, other than those defined as a semi-public pool, which
is intended to be used for swimming or bathing and is operated by a
concessionaire, owner, lessee, operator, or licensee, regardless of whether a
fee is charged for use. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as applying
to any pool, constructed at a one- or two-family dwelling, and maintained by an
individual for the sole use of the household and house guests.
   RE-CERTIFICATION. Requiring a pre-certified individual to pass an accredited
certification examination within five years from the date of issue of their
most recent certificate issue date, or complying with the accredited testing
service’s written policy for re-certification.
   REGULATORY AUTHORITY. The local, state, or federal enforcement body or
authorized representative having jurisdiction over a public or semi-public
pool.
   REPEAT VIOLATION. A violation that has been observed and recorded on the
previous inspection form and the violation was also observed and recorded again
on the consecutive inspection report.
   SEMI-PUBLIC POOL. Any pool that is intended to be used for swimming or
bathing and is operated solely for and in conjunction with:
      (1)   Schools, universities, and colleges:
      (2)   Hotels, motels, apartments, condominiums, bed and breakfasts, or
similar lodgings;
      (3)   Camps or mobile home parks;
      (4)   Memberships, clubs or associations; or
      (5)   Therapeutic pools; rehabilitation and health care facilities.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as applying to any pool,
constructed at a one- or two- family dwelling, and maintained by an individual
for the sole use of the household and house guests.
   SPA. A pool designed for recreational and/or therapeutic use, which is not
drained, cleaned, and refilled after each use. The term may include, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Hydrojet circulation;
      (2)   Hot water;
      (3)   Cold water;
      (4)   Mineral baths;
      (5)   Air induction systems; or
      (6)   Any combination thereof.
   THERAPEUTIC POOL. Any pool used for rehabilitation of patients or clients at
a health care facility. A THERAPEUTIC POOL would be considered semi-public.
   UNSATISFACTORY WATER SAMPLE. A water sample that contains more than 200
bacteria colonies per milliliter as determined by the heterotrophic 35-degree
Centigrade plate count, a test positive (confirmed test) for coliform organisms
in any of the five to ten milliliter portions of a sample when the multiple
tube fermentation tube test is used, a test positive for more than one coliform
organism per 50 milliliters when the membrane filter test is used, or the
presence of any coliform when the 100 milliliter presence/absence test is used.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 95.06 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a public or semi-public
pool in the county that does not possess a valid permit issued by the
Regulatory Authority. The permit shall provide the name and address of the
operator of the pool. An annual swimming pool permit or an annual spa permit
shall be issued for a term of one year, beginning on May 1 and expiring on
April 30 of the next year. A seasonal swimming pool permit or a seasonal spa
permit shall be obtained for any pool that will be opened less than six months
in the same calendar year. All seasonal pools must obtain a permit prior to
opening. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection as set forth
herein. The County Health Department shall provide the appropriate application
forms for the permits. The permit(s) shall be posted in the establishment in a
place conspicuous to the public.
   (B)   Each pool within an establishment will require a separate permit.
Therefore, if an establishment has a pool and a spa they will be required to
obtain two permits. This ensures that the County Health Department can suspend
a permit when necessary and an unaffected pool may remain open, according to
this chapter, and the Indiana State Department of Health’s Swimming Pool Rule,
410 I.A.C. 6-2.1.
   (C)   Establishments applying for an annual or seasonal permit must provide
proof of a satisfactory water sample obtained from the pool prior to issuance
of a permit. This criterion allows the County Health Department to ensure the
annual pool can remain open and the seasonal pool has met all the mandatory
bacteriological requirements before it is allowed to open.
   (D)   Prior to issuance of a permit, an application must be filled out and
submitted to the County Health Department for each pool. The application will
provide contact information and specific information regarding each pool.
   (E)   Plan review. Any newly constructed, rehabilitated or altered public
pools or spas must show proof of prior approval from the Indiana Fire and
Building Services Department. Their authority for this plan review is addressed
in Title 675 I.A.C. 20-1.
   (F)   Permit fees. Fees are required to be paid to the County Health
Department prior to issuance of any permit. Fees are established in the County
Fee Collection Ordinance, as amended. Fees are required for each annual
swimming pool or spa permit (May- April) or any seasonal swimming pool or spa
permit to operate a public or semi-public pool as defined in division (A) of
this section.
   (G)   Outstanding fees. All fees, fines, and penalties must be paid before a
permit may be issued, renewed, or reinstated.
   (H)   Application denial. If an application for a permit to operate a
swimming pool/spa is denied, the County Health Department shall provide the
applicant with a notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 96.07 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Health Department may conduct administrative proceeding for
suspension, denial, and/or revocation of the establishment’s permit before a
Hearing Officer. See §
96.14, Appeals, to ensure that due process is followed.
   (B)   Any person whose permit has been suspended may at any time make
application to the Regulatory Authority for the reinstatement of the permit.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 96.08 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   All public and semi-public pools shall comply with at least the minimum
requirements specified by 675 I.A.C. 20-1, Swimming Pool Code, and 410 I.A.C.
6-2.1, Public and Semi-Public Pools, and this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 96.09 CERTIFIED POOL OPERATOR CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   The certified pool operator (CPO) training is not required by this
chapter. However, the County Health Department strongly recommends that all
pool operators and/or management participate in a CPO training course. The CPO
training allows pool operators to obtain the knowledge concerning pool
chemistry that is essential for complying with this chapter.
   (B)   The CPO certification examination by the National Swimming Pool
Foundation or an equivalent nationally recognized certification examination is
recognized by the County Health Department.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 96.10 INSPECTION OF PUBLIC AND SEMI- PUBLIC POOLS.
   (A)   The Regulatory Authority may inspect each public or semi-public pool
for which a permit is required at any time during its normal operational hours.
If, during an inspection of any public pool, the Regulatory Authority discovers
the violation of any of the requirements of this chapter, it shall issue a
written narrative report listing such violations and a time for correction to
the operator. A copy of the written report shall be filed with the records of
the Regulatory Authority.
   (B)   Pool testing kit requirements. The Regulatory Authority requires the
availability and use of pool test kits that will provide the ranges listed
below to measure the level of disinfectants in pools.
      (1)   Pools and spas that use chlorine as a disinfectant. Chlorine kit:
the initial reading for chlorine is a measurable range of 0 to 10 ppm (parts
per million) free and/or combined chlorine.
      (2)   Pools and spas that use bromine as a disinfectant. Bromine kit: the
initial reading for bromine is a measurable range of 0 to 15 ppm (parts per
million) bromine.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06; Am. Res. 2007-BCC-06, passed 2-5-07)
§ 96.11 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1 REASONS FOR CLOSURE.
   (A)   Failure to meet bacteriological requirements of 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1,
section 31(f) Public and Semi- Public Pools.
   (B)   Failure to meet the disinfectant concentrations of 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1,
section 30(b) Public and Semi-Public Pools.
   (C)   Failure to meet water clarity requirements according to of 410 I.A.C.
6-2.1, section 31(a) Public and Semi-Public Pools.
   (D)   The grate on the main drain is missing or broken.
   (E)   Failure to meet lifeguard requirements according to 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1,
section 35 Public and Semi-Public Pools, if applicable.
   (F)   A pump, filter, and/or disinfectant feeders is nonoperational.
   (G)   A nonsolid fecal accident.
   (H)   Spa water temperature exceeds 104° Fahrenheit.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 96.12 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Additional reasons that may result in closure:
      (1)   Failure to have the swimming pool under the supervision of an
individual who shall assume the responsibility for compliance with all parts of
410 I.A.C. 6-2.1 and this chapter.
      (2)   Failure to maintain a pH between 7.2 and 7.8.
      (3)   Detecting any measurable concentration of chlorinated isocyanurates
and cyanuric acid stabilizers used in an indoor pool.
      (4)   Any other imminent health hazard that could cause injury or
illness.
   (B)   Ceasing operation and contacting the County Health Department. A pool
operator shall immediately discontinue operations and notify the County Health
Department if an imminent health hazard may exist because of an emergency such
as a fire, flood, extended interruption of electrical or water service, sewage
backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic materials, gross unsanitary occurrence or
condition, or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
   (C)   Resuming operation. If an establishment has discontinued operations
for the reasons stated above or otherwise according to law, the operator must
obtain approval from the County Health Department before resuming operations.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 96.13 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The County Health Department may suspend a swimming pool or spa permit
to operate a pool if it determines through inspection or any other means as
specified in this chapter that an imminent health hazard exists. The suspension
shall remain in effect until the Regulatory Authority confirms that the
condition(s) cited in the notice of suspension no longer exist.
   (B)   The Regulatory Authority may at any time summarily suspend a pool’s
permit:
      (1)   By providing written notice to the permit holder or operator,
without prior warning, notice of a hearing, or a hearing, if it is determined
that an imminent health hazard exists; or
      (2)   For interference with the Regulatory Authority in the performance
of its duties.
   (C)   A permit holder may request a hearing to address concerns about the
Regulatory Authority’s compliance actions, except that a hearing request does
not stay the Regulatory Authority’s imposition of a summary suspension. If a
permit is suspended and/or revoked, the pool/spa must be inaccessible to
bathers by use of locked doors or other barriers.
   (D)   The following are options available to the County Health Department
for consideration:
      (1)   The County Health Officer may issue an Order to Abate, Permit
Suspension, Pool Closure Order, or hold a hearing and levy fines based on a
condition that may transmit, generate, or promote disease. A hearing shall be
called if an establishment has obtained four closures within a 30-day period.
Reasons for closure are listed in §§
96.11 and
96.12. A requested inspection that does not meet operational standards shall
also count as a closure for these purposes. Failure on the part of the operator
to comply with the order could result in the enforcement of the order in the
court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the County Attorney, or
attorney authorized by the County Executive or County Prosecuting Attorney. See
I.C. 16-20-1-25. See also §
96.14.
      (2)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation,
the County Attorney or attorney authorized by the County Executive may be
requested to institute a proceeding in the courts for the enforcement of the
ordinance violation. See I.C. 34-28-5-1.
      (3)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense, the
County Prosecuting Attorney shall be requested to institute a proceeding in the
courts for enforcement. See I.C. 16-20-1-25(c).
   (E)   Monetary fines. Unless adjusted by an administrative order, the
following schedule of monetary penalties shall be used if penalties are to be
assessed:
      (1)   The penalty for operating a public or semi-public pool without a
valid permit (which includes any pool closed by a health inspector), as defined
in this chapter, shall be up to $500.
      (2)   The penalty for repeated violations on consecutive inspection
reports as defined in this chapter and in 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1, shall be up to $50
for each violation for each day the violation(s) continue. The $50 fine for
repeated violations excludes any items listed in §§ 93.11 and
96.12 that describe reasons for closure.
      (3)   All other penalties will be assessed by the Hearing Officer. In
determining the seriousness of the violation and the specific amount of the
penalty to be sought for each violation, the Hearing Officer will consider, but
is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The potential for harm or imminent threat to public health.
         (b)   The extent of deviation from statutory or regulatory
requirements.
         (c)   Degree of willfulness or negligence.
         (d)   History of noncompliance.
      (4)   The absence of direct harm will not result in assessment of a lower
penalty for a violation.
   (F)   The County Health Department may suspend a permit to operate a pool if
it determines, through inspection, swimming pool logs that are not maintained
according to Indiana State Department of Health’s Swimming Pool Rule 410 I.A.C.
6-2.1, or other means as specified in this chapter, that an imminent health
hazard exists.
   (G)   Pool closure orders will be issued and Health Department signage will
be immediately posted. Pool closure signage placed by the Regulatory Authority
shall not be removed except by the Regulatory Authority. A return of service
order will be completed for a record of the date and time the order was
delivered.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 96.14 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under §
96.13, Compliance and Enforcement of this Chapter, shall be entitled to a
review of the final order before a Hearing Officer by filing an administrative
written request therefore with the Health Officer (Secretary of the County
Board of Health. See I.C. 16-20-1-10). The written request must be mailed or
hand delivered to Health Officer, Howard County Health Department 120 E.
Mulberry St., 2nd floor, Kokomo, IN 46901) and must be received within 15 days
after such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the Hearing Officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the rules of court of the jurisdiction. A shorter period of time
may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon.
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person’s mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the Health Officer.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer establishes the Rules of Procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final administrative order or determination of this matter in
writing.
   (F)   The administrative order completes the Administrative Appeals
procedure.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
§ 96.15 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No County Official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner that is or
could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-11, passed 3-6-06)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   FOOD OPERATIONS
      
111.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT AND BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT
      
112.   REGULATION OF PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: FOOD OPERATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Permits required
   
110.03   Permit fees
   
110.04   Minimum requirements for food operations
   
110.05   Sale, examination and condemnation of unwholesome, adulterated or
misbranded food
   
110.06   Inspection of food operations; permit revocation or suspension
   
110.07   Authority to inspect and to copy records
   
110.08   Approval of plans
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health Department service fees established, see §§
92.15 et seq.
   Retail food and bed and breakfast establishments, see
Chapter 111
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULTERATED OR MISBRANDED. Includes any food that does not conform to legal
standards of purity, processing, labeling and the like as provided in I.C. 16-
42-1-1 through 16-42-4-5, as amended, known as the Uniform Indiana Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act.
   COMMISSARY. A catering establishment, restaurant or any other place in which
food, containers or supplies are kept, handled, prepared, packaged or stored.
   EMPLOYEE. The permittee, individuals having supervisory or management
duties, and any other person working in a food operation.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked or processed edible substance, ice, beverage or
ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human
consumption.
   FOOD OPERATION. Any food service establishment, retail food store, mobile
food unit, pushcart, temporary food service establishment, commissary or food
vending machine.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where food is prepared and intended
for individual portion service, and includes the site at which individual
portions are provided. The term includes any such place regardless of whether
consumption is on or off the premises and regardless of whether there is a
charge for the food. The term also includes delicatessen-type operations that
prepare sandwiches intended for individual portion service. The term does not
include private homes where food is prepared or served for individual family
consumption, retail food stores, the location of food vending machines, and
supply vehicles.
   HEALTH OFFICER. A medical doctor serving as the health officer for the
County Board of Health or his or her authorized representative.
   LAW. Includes applicable state and local statutes, ordinances, rules and
regulations.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A vehicle-mounted food service establishment designed to
be readily movable.
   OWNER OR OPERATOR. Shall be any person conducting a food operation.
   PERMIT. The document used by the health officer which authorizes a person to
conduct a food operation.
   PERMITTEE. Any owner or operator in possession of a valid permit to conduct
a food operation.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, association or
other legal entity.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. The individual present in a food operation who is the
apparent supervisor of the food operation at the time of inspection. If no
individual is the apparent supervisor, then any employee present is the person
in charge.
   POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD. Any food that consists in whole or in part of
milk or milk products, eggs, meat, poultry, fish, shellfish, edible crustacea
or other ingredients, including synthetic ingredients, and which is in a form
capable of supporting rapid and progressive growth of infectious or toxigenic
microorganisms. The term does not include foods that have a pH level of 4.6 or
below or a water activity (Aw) value of 0.85 or less under standard conditions
or food products in hermetically sealed containers commercially processed to
prevent spoilage.
   PUSHCART. A nonself-propelled vehicle limited to serving non-potentially
hazardous foods or commissary-wrapped food maintained at proper temperatures,
or limited to the preparation and serving of frankfurters.
   RETAIL FOOD STORE. Any establishment or section of an establishment where
food and food products are offered to the consumer and intended for off-
premises consumption. The term includes delicatessens that offer prepared food
in bulk quantities only. The term does not include establishments which handle
only prepackaged non- potentially hazardous foods, roadside markets that offer
only fresh fruits and fresh vegetables for sale, food-service establishments,
or food and beverage vending machines.
   SEASONAL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food operation conducted at a fixed location
for a consecutive period of more than 14 days and less than 121 days.
   TEMPORARY FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISH- MENT. A food service establishment that
operates at a fixed location for a period of time, not more than 14 consecutive
days, in conjunction with a single event or celebration.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any self-service device which, upon insertion of a coin,
coins or tokens, or by other similar means, dispenses unit servings of
perishable food, either in bulk or in packages, without the necessity of
replenishing the device between each vending operation.
   WHOLESOME. In sound condition, clean, free from adulteration, and otherwise
suitable for use as human food.
(BCC Ord. 1991-25A, passed 1-13-92)
§ 110.02 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a food operation in the
county who does not possess a valid permit from the health officer. Such permit
shall be posted in a conspicuous place in such operation.
   (B)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements as specified
by the Indiana State Board of Health rules incorporated herein by reference
shall be entitled to receive and retain such a permit.
   (C)   A permit for a food operation shall be for a term of one year
beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the same year and shall be
renewed annually. The permit for a temporary retail food establishment shall be
for the term of one continuous operation with a duration of 14 days or less. A
permit for a seasonal food establishment shall be for a term of one continuous
operation of more than 14 days and less than 120 days. Any permit issued by the
health officer shall contain the name and address of the person to whom the
permit is issued, the address of the premises for which same is issued, and
such other pertinent data as may be required by the health officer.
   (D)   A separate permit shall be required for each food operation conducted
or to be conducted by any person. Only one vending permit will be required per
address, regardless of number of machines; however, the fee will vary according
to number of machines. A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable
from one owner to another or from one location to another.
   (E)   A permit shall be issued to any person on application after inspection
and approval by the health officer; provided, that the food operation complies
with all applicable requirements of this chapter.
(BCC Ord. 1991-25A, passed 1-13-92) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Fee schedule. The fee schedule for current rates shall be as follows.
Note that a late fee of $25 will be assessed on any permit not renewed by
December 31.
      (1)   Retail food establishment permits:
         (a)   Menu Type 1 - $125.
         (b)   Menu Type 2 - $175.
         (c)   Menu Type 3 - $200.
         (d)   Menu Type 4 - $200.
         (e)   Menu Type 5 - $200.
         (f)   Prior to July 1, full fee.
         (g)   After July, one-half fee.
         (h)   Plan review fee - $60.
      (2)   Bed and breakfast establishment permit fees will reflect menu type.
      (3)   Temporary food service establishment - $15 per day; not to exceed
$75.
      (4)   Seasonal food establishment permits - $100 per 180 days; not to
exceed $200.
      (5)   Vending machines:
         (a)   1 to 5 machines - $40.
         (b)   6 to 10 machines - $70.
         (c)   11 to 15 machines - $90.
         (d)   16 or more machines - $100.
      (6)   Late fee, to be assessed on any permit not renewed by December 31 -
$25.
   (B)   Permit and fee exception. No permit shall be required and no permit
fee shall be paid for food operations conducted for 30 days or less annually by
religious, educational or charitable organizations. However, such
establishments shall comply with the other provisions as stated division (C)(3)
of this section.
   (C)   Exemption from compliance. An organization that is exempt from the
state gross income tax under I.C. 6-2.1-3-20 et seq. and that offers food for
sale to the final consumer at an event held for the benefit of the organization
is exempt from complying with the requirements of the chapter that may be
imposed upon the sale of food at that event if:
      (1)   Members of the organization prepare the food that will be sold;
      (2)   Events conducted by the organization under this section take place
for no more than 30 days in any calendar year; and
      (3)   The name of each member who has prepared a food item is attached to
the container in which the food item has been placed.
(BCC Ord. 1991-25A, passed 1-13-92; Am. Ord. 2004-BCC-05, passed 2-2-04)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD OPERATIONS.
   All food operations shall comply with the minimum requirements specified by
the State Board of Health in Rules 410 I.A.C. 7-15.1, 410 I.A.C. 7-16.1, and
410 I.A.C. 7-17, two copies of which are on file in the office of the County
Clerk for public inspection. Copies may also be obtained from the County Health
Department.
(BCC Ord. 1991-25A, passed 1-13-92) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 SALE, EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED OR
MISBRANDED FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell through a food operation
any food which is unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded as provided in the
Uniform Indiana Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, being I.C. 16-42-1-1 through 16-
42-4-5.
   (B)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the health officer as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from contamination, adulteration
or misbranding. The health officer may, on written notice to the owner or
operator, impound and forbid the sale of any food which is or which he or she
has probable cause to believe is unfit for human consumption, unwholesome,
adulterated or misbranded; provided, that in the case of misbranding, which can
be corrected by proper labeling, such food may be released to the operator for
correct labeling under the supervision of the health officer. The health
officer may also cause to be removed or destroyed any dairy product, meat, meat
product, seafood, poultry, poultry product, confectionery, bakery product,
vegetable, fruit or other perishable articles which in his or her opinion are
unsound or contain any filthy, decomposed or putrid substance, or that may be
poisonous or deleterious to health or otherwise unsafe.
(BCC Ord. 1991-25A, passed 1-13-92) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 INSPECTION OF FOOD OPERATIONS; PERMIT REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Frequency of inspection.
      (1)   Each food operation for which a permit is required under the
provisions of this chapter shall be inspected annually or as often as deemed
necessary by the health officer.
      (2)   The County Board of Health is to be notified immediately by the
owner or operator and an inspection done by the health officer in the event of
a fire, new ownership, extensive remodeling, natural disasters such as flood or
tornado, or the operation reopening after having been temporarily closed. Upon
receiving notice of this occurrence, the health officer shall take whatever
action he or she deems necessary to protect the public health.
   (B)   Pre-opening inspection.
      (1)   The owner of a new operation for which a permit is required under
the provisions of this chapter must contact the health officer to schedule a
pre-opening inspection. A permit approval form will be issued after the pre-
opening inspection only if the inspection score is 85 or above. The permit
approval form must then be presented to the County Board of Health, along with
the appropriate fee, and a permit will be issued at that time. A valid permit
must be obtained and conspicuously posted on business premises before the owner
may begin operation.
      (2)   The owner of any operation opening for business without first
obtaining a valid permit may be subject to penalties established in §
110.99.
   (C)   Procedure when violations are noted.
      (1)   If, during the inspection of any food operation, the health officer
discovers the violation of any of the requirements in §
110.04, he or she shall issue a written order listing such violations to the
proprietor or, in his or her absence, to the person in charge, and fixing a
time within which the proprietor of the food operation shall abate and remedy
such violations. A copy of the written order shall be filed with the records of
the health department.
      (2)   In the case of a violation noted in a temporary food service
establishment or seasonal food establishment, the health officer may order the
immediate correction of the violation.
   (D)   Final inspection; prosecution or hearing for violators. If, upon a
subsequent inspection, the health officer finds that a food operation, person
or employee is violating any of the provisions of this chapter which were in
violation on the previous inspection, and concerning which a written order was
issued, and such reinspection was conducted after the time fixed in the order
for abatement and remedy of the violation, the health officer may furnish
evidence of the violation to the prosecutor having jurisdiction in the county
in which the violation occurs, and he or she shall prosecute all persons
violating the provisions of this chapter as permitted or required by law, or
the health officer may promptly issue a written order to the permittee of the
food operation to appear at a certain time, no later than ten days from the
date of final inspection, and at a place in the county fixed in the order, to
show cause why the permit issued under the provision of §
110.02 should not be revoked.
   (E)   Revocation of permit.
      (1)   The health officer upon a hearing, if the permittee should fail to
show cause, may revoke the permit and promptly give written notice of the
action to the permittee. The health officer shall maintain a permanent record
of the proceedings filed in the office of the health department.
      (2)   Upon failure of any person maintaining or operating a temporary
food service establishment or seasonal food establishment to comply with any
order of the health officer, it shall be the duty of the health officer
summarily to revoke the permit of the person and establishment and to forbid
the further sale or serving of food therein.
   (F)   Suspension of permit.
      (1)   Any permit issued under this chapter may be temporarily suspended
by the health officer without notice or hearing for a period of not to exceed
30 days for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Unsanitary or other conditions which in the health officer's
opinion endanger the public's health; or
         (b)   Interference with the health officer in the performance of his
or her duties.
      (2)   Provided, however, that upon written application from the
permittee, served upon the health officer within 15 days after the suspension,
the health officer shall conduct a hearing upon the matter after giving at
least five days written notice of the time, place and purpose thereof to the
suspended permittee; provided further, that any suspension order shall be
issued by the health officer in writing and served upon the permittee by
leaving a copy at his or her usual place of business or by delivery by
registered or certified mail.
   (G)   Reinstatement of permit. Any person whose permit has been suspended
may, at any time, make application to the health officer for the reinstatement
of his or her permit.
   (H)   Probationary Periods.
      (1)    Any operation for which a permit is required under the provisions
of this chapter is subject to periods of probation as follows:
         (a)   New operation - 30 days.
         (b)   Change of ownership - 30 days.
         (c)   Extensive remodeling - 30 days.
         (d)   Routine inspection score of 70 or below - 30 days.
         (e)   Routine inspection score of 60 or below - immediate cessation of
operation and must attain a score of 85 or above to reopen.
         (f)   Reopening when following a cease order - 30 days.
         (g)   Reopening by same owner after having been closed for business
(seasonal operations excluded) - 30 days.
         (h)   Year end rating score average below 75 - 30 days.
         (i)   Repeated violations of 4 and 5 point items in inspections - 15
to 30 days.
         (j)   Two consecutive rating scores below 75 - 15 to 30 days.
         (k)   Failure to submit plans prior to extensive remodeling - 15 to 30
days.
         (l)   Installation of non-acceptable equipment - 15 to 30 days.
      (2)   The health officer will visit the operation at the end of the
probationary period to assess degree of compliance. If the operation has failed
to meet compliance, the health officer, at his or her discretion, may either
extend the probationary period or begin permit revocation proceedings. Any
operation found satisfactory at the end of the probationary period will be
issued a letter to that effect.
(BCC Ord. 1991-25A, passed 1-13-92) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT AND TO COPY RECORDS.
   The person in charge of a food operation shall, upon the request of the
health officer, permit the health officer access to all parts of the food
operation and shall permit the health officer to collect evidence and exhibits
and to copy any or all records relative to the enforcement of this ordinance.
(BCC Ord. 1991-25A, passed 1-13-92) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   All food operations which are hereafter constructed or altered shall conform
with the applicable requirements of the State Board of Health and by the State
Department of Fire and Building Services. Properly prepared plans and
specifications shall be submitted for approval to the health officer, or in the
absence of a local plan review program, to the Division of Retail Consumer
Affairs, State Board of Health, as may be required before starting any
construction work.
(BCC Ord. 1991-25A, passed 1-13-92) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to any civil penalty that may be imposed under state law, any
person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be fined as follows:
first violation, $100; second violation, $200; third violation, $500; all
violations in excess of three, $2,500 each. For purposes of assessing penalties
under this section only, no more than one violation per inspection may count
toward determining the amount of penalty assessed hereunder.
(BCC Ord. 1991-25A, passed 1-13-92)
CHAPTER 111: FOOD ESTABLISHMENT AND BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permits
   
111.03   Permit fees
   
111.04   Inspection
   
111.05   Compliance and enforcement
   
111.06   Appeal
Cross-reference:
   Food operations, see
Chapter 110
   Health Department service fees established, see §§
92.15 et seq.
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 410 I.A.C. 5-15.5, means an
operator- occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. Local board of health as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-210 and
referred to in I.C. 16-20.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. As derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-l-l(b)(2), means a
situation in which the private financial interest of a County Official, County
Official's spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or unemancipated
child, may influence the County Official's judgment in the performance of a
public duty. Note: The County Officials should follow the code of ethics if a
code of ethics was established for County Officials.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in I.C. 16-18-2-137:
      (1)   For purposes of I.C. 16-42-5 and I.C. 16-42-5.2, FOOD ESTABLISHMENT
means any building, room, basement, vehicle of transportation, cellar, or open
or enclosed area occupied or used for handling food.
      (2)   The term does not include the following:
         (a)   A dwelling where food is prepared on the premises by the
occupants, free of charge, for their consumption or for consumption by their
guests.
         (b)   A gathering of individuals at a venue of an organization that is
organized for educational purposes in a nonpublic educational setting or for
religious purposes, if:
            1.   The individuals separately or jointly provide or prepare, free
of charge, and consume their own food or that of others attending the
gathering; and
            2.   The gathering is for a purpose of the organization. Gatherings
for the purpose of the organization include funerals, wedding receptions,
christenings, bar or bat mitzvahs, baptisms, communions, and other events or
celebrations sponsored by the organization.
         (c)   A vehicle used to transport food solely for distribution to the
needy, either free of charge or for a nominal donation.
         (d)   A private gathering of individuals who separately or jointly
provide or prepare and consume their own food or that of others attending the
gathering, regardless of whether the gathering is held on public or private
property.
         (e)   Except for food prepared by a for- profit entity, a venue of the
sale of food prepared for the organization:
            1.   That is organized for:
               a.   Religious purposes; or
               b.   Educational purposes in a nonpublic educational setting.
            2.   That is exempt from taxation under Section 501 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
            3.   That offers the food for sale to the final consumer at an
event held for the benefit of the organization, unless the food is being
provided in a restaurant or a cafeteria with an extensive menu of prepared
foods.
         (f)   Except for food prepared by a for- profit entity, an Indiana
nonprofit organization that:
            1.   Is organized for civic, fraternal, veterans, or charitable
purposes;
            2.   Is exempt from taxation under Section 501 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
            3.   Offers food for sale to the final consumer at an event held
for the benefit of the organization, if the events conducted by the
organization take place for not more than 15 days in a calendar year.
   This definition also includes a retail food establishment as defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24; however, it does not include a bed and breakfast establishment.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. As defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24, means a written document that delineates the formal procedures for
following the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point principles developed by
the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The person, appointed as specified in I.C. 16-20-2-16, or
his or her duly authorized representative, as specified in I.C. 16-2-1-14, who
may conduct inspections and make a final decision on an enforcement action.
   HEARING BOARD. Shall be comprised of three individuals, the current Health
Officer or his or her designee, and two current County Board of Health Board
members appointed by the Board's president to serve.
   HOWARD COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local health department in Howard
County or authorized representative having jurisdiction over a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment.
   HOWARD COUNTY OFFICIAL. Any Official of Howard County, Indiana.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction or cessation of operation to prevent injury or illness based on the
number of potential injuries and illnesses and the nature, severity and
duration of the anticipated injury or illness (e.g., sewage backing up in a
food preparation area or contamination of food products with toxic materials).
   INSPECTION. A visit by the regulatory authority to determine compliance with
food laws.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to the operator.
   MENU TYPE. Assignment of risk for an establishment based on type of food
served, the preparation steps required, the volume of food, ths population
served, and previous compliance history.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. As derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9, means a County Health Department
action of particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties,
privileges, immunities, or other legal interests of one or more specific
persons. The term includes a permit.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment.
   PERSON. An association; a corporation; an individual; partnership; or other
legal entity, government, or governmental subdivision or agency.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-22, passed 5-16-05; Am. Ord. 2009-BCC-08, passed 2-16-09)
§ 111.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment in the county, without first obtaining
a valid permit from the Health Officer. The valid permit must be posted in a
conspicuous location in the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment.
      (2)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment operated or to be operated by any
person.
      (3)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
      (4)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment
permitted by the County Health Department shall be considered registered as
required in I.C. 16-42-1-6.
   (B)   Permit type. A standard bed and breakfast establishment permit and/or
retail food establishment permit shall be issued for a term beginning February
1, and/or before commencement of operation, and expiring January 31 of the
following year, for a single permanent location, or transport and/or delivery
service for pre-packaged food when there is no food handling, and shall be
applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
   (C)   A seasonal retail food establishment permit shall be for a term of one
continuous operation of more than 14 days and not to exceed six months. A
seasonal or mobile retail food establishment may be operated at various
locations within the county, provided the operator submits a schedule of events
disclosing the dates and locations where food will be served.
   (D)   A public school concession stand permit shall be issued to a school
corporation before commencement of operation and shall expire July 31, and
shall not exceed 12 consecutive months. A public school concession stand may be
operated in conjunction with school-sponsored events within various approved
permanent structures on the school grounds, provided the operator submits a
schedule of events disclosing the dates and locations where the food will be
served. If the operator is an organization that is exempt from taxation under
Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code, documentation should be provided to
the Health Department.
   (E)   A probationary retail food establishment permit or a probationary bed
and breakfast permit may be issued to an operator whose inspection reports show
a history of noncompliance or, upon expiration of a provisional permit, or when
the operator is not in substantial compliance with 410 I.A.C. 7-22, 410 I.A.C.
7-24 and this chapter. Probationary permits are issued for a period of up to 30
days, and may be renewed once for up to 30 additional days. A probationary
permit also may be issued to establishment operators who fail to notify the
Health Department of an intent to operate, a change of ownership, or who fail
to submit construction plans for new or extensively remodeled establishments.
   (F)   (1)   A provisional retail food establishment permit or provisional
bed and breakfast permit may be issued for a retail food establishment or bed
and breakfast for the following reasons:
         (a)   New business.
         (b)   Change of operator.
         (c)   Extensive remodeling or change of menu type.
      (2)   A provisional permit may be issued for up to 60 days and may not be
renewed.
   (G)   A temporary retail food establishment permit shall be for a period of
no more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event or
celebration in one location. A permit for a temporary food establishment shall
be for the term of one continuous operation.
   (H)   Permit content. Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the establishment for whom the permit is granted;
      (2)   The location of the establishment or name of the event for which
the permit is issued;
      (3)   The name of the establishment operator;
      (4)   The permit type;
      (5)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (6)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the County Health
Officer.
   (I)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment shall submit to the County Health
Department a written application for a permit on a form provided by the County
Health Department.
   (J)   Qualification. To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter and applicable law;
      (3)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment and provide required information; and
      (4)   Pay the applicable plan review fees and/or permit fees at the time
the application is submitted.
   (K)   Plans requirements.
      (1)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed
and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment shall submit to the
County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for review
and approval before:
         (a)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment; or
         (c)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment or food operation if the County Health Department determines
that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure compliance with this
section.
      (2)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment shall include the type of operation, type of food
preparation (as specified in Appendix A of the published version of 410 I.A.C.
7-24), the required plan review fee and the menu.
      (3)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and
approved by the County Health Department before a permit can be issued.
      (4)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment is built or remodeled in accordance
with the approved plans and specifications and that the establishment is in
compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5.
   (L)   Change of ownership. The County Health Department may renew a permit
for an existing bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment, or
may issue a provisional or standard permit to a new owner of an existing and
operating bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment after a
properly completed application is submitted, reviewed, and approved, and the
fees are paid.
   (M)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the County Health Department, the operator, in order to retain the permit,
shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
Indiana State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the County Health Department access to the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment at all reasonable
times;
      (4)   Timely comply with directives of the County Health Department;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and injunctive
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the County Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment that is conspicuous to consumers.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-22, passed 5-16-05; Am. Ord. 2009-BCC-08, passed 2-16-09)
Penalty, see §
111.05
§ 111.03 PERMIT FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment in the county, who has not paid the
permit fee and/or any fines required to be paid for the operation of such
establishment. The fee shall be paid for a term beginning February 1, and/or
before commencement of operation and expiring January 31 of the following year,
and shall be paid by the person and/or operator annually.
   (A)   Fees.
      (1)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a
bed and breakfast establishment and/or a food establishment, or fees for plan
review, shall be set by the County Health Department Fee Collection Ordinance,
as provided by the Statutes of the State of Indiana. See I.C. 16-20-1-27.
      (2)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the
County Health Department.
      (3)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment operated or to be operated by
any person.
   (B)   Exemption from permit fees. An organization that is element of the
county government is exempt from the payment of fees.
   (C)   Late fees.  
      (1)   The late fee for failure to renew a permit after the expiration of
the permit to operate bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment
shall be assessed as set by the current County Health Department Fee Collection
Ordinance.
      (2)   Fees paid under this chapter are not transferable or refundable.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-22, passed 5-16-05; Am. Ord. 2009-BCC-08, passed 2-16-09)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 INSPECTION.
   (A)   General. 
      (1)   The County Health Department may inspect a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment at least once every six months.
      (2)   The County Health Department may increase the interval between
inspections beyond six months if:
         (a)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment is
fully operating under an approved and validated Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Point (HACCP) plan(s);
         (b)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment is
assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a written risk-based
inspection schedule that is being uniformly applied throughout the
jurisdiction.
         (c)   The County Health Department may contact the operator to
determine that the nature of the food operation has not changed.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The County Health Department shall
periodically inspect throughout its permit period a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells, or serves unpackaged potentially hazardous
food and may inspect temporary food establishment that prepares, sells or
serves unpackaged, non-potentially hazardous food.
   (C)   Performance and risk-based inspections. Within the parameters
specified in divisions (A) and (B) of this section, the County Health
Department shall prioritize, and conduct more frequent inspections based upon
its assessment of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment's
history of compliance with this chapter and the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment's potential as a vector of foodborne illness.
   (D)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice.  
      (1)   After the County Health Department presents official credentials
and provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection,
investigation, collect food or water samples or take photographs, the operator
shall allow the County Health Department to determine if the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment is in compliance with this chapter by
allowing access to the establishment, allowing inspection, and providing
information and records specified in this chapter. The County Health Department
is entitled to the information and records according to I.C. 16-42-1-13 and
I.C. 16-42-5-23, during the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment's hours of operation and other reasonable times.
      (2)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment’s permit to operate.
      (3)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law. See I.C. 16-20-1-26.
   (E)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the County
Health Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report and
the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person-in-charge, as
required under I.C. 16-20-8-5.
   (F)   Timely correction of critical violations. 
      (1)   Except as specified in division (F)(2), an operator shall, at the
time of inspection, correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410
I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22, and implement corrective actions for a
HACCP plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical limit.
      (2)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the County Health Department may
agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator
to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (3)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the County Health Department shall verify correction of the
violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the County Health Department's records.
   (G)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment.  
      (1)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
operator's obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified.
      (2)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the County Health Department historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment.
      (3)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of
the County Health Department inspection by acknowledgment of receipt.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-22, passed 5-16-05; Am. Ord. 2009-BCC-08, passed 2-16-09)
Penalty, see §
111.05
§ 111.05 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Fines and penalties. 
      (1)   The penalty for operating a food establishment without a valid
permit, as defined in this ordinance, shall not exceed $2,500.
      (2)   Title 410 I.A.C. 7-23, Schedule of Civil Penalties, will be used to
determine the dollar amounts of civil penalties sought for violations of the
food establishment rules, and I.C. 16-42-5. For violations listed under the
schedule, the regulatory authority may seek civil penalties as part of an
enforcement action. A range of civil penalties is established to allow
flexibility for the regulatory authority and the courts. Any fines or penalties
collected shall be deposited into the health fund.
      (3)   Title 410 IAC 7-22, Certification of Food Handler Requirements,
Section 19 schedule of monetary penalties, will be used for violation of I.A.C.
7-22, unless adjusted by administrative order.
   (B)   Outstanding fees. All fines and penalties owed by any food
establishment or bed and breakfast establishment shall be paid in full prior to
the issuance of a valid permit or the renewal of a current permit.
   (C)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment is
denied, the County Health Department shall provide the applicant with a notice
that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant's right of appeal and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
   (D)   Permit revocation. The County Health Department may revoke a permit to
operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment for a time
period not to exceed 90 calendar days. If the permit has been revoked in the
past and a clear demonstration of noncompliance is demonstrated by the permit
holder, then the permit may be revoked for a longer period of time as
determined by the Health Officer.
   (E)   Permit suspension.
      (1)   The County Health Department may suspend a permit to operate a bed
and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment if it determines, through
inspection or examination of employee, food, records, or other means as
specified in this chapter, that an imminent health hazard exists or that there
is no certified food handler as required by 410 I.A.C. 7-22, and shall not
exceed 30 calendar days.
      (2)   The Regulatory Authority may at any time summarily suspend a
person's permit:
         (a)   By providing written notice to the permit holder or person-in-
charge, without prior warning, notice of a hearing, or a hearing, if it is
determined that an imminent health hazard exists; or
         (b)   For interference with the Regulatory Authority in the
performance of its duties.
      (3)   The suspension shall remain in effect until the Regulatory
Authority confirms that the conditions cited in the notice of suspension no
longer exist.
      (4)   A permit holder may request a hearing to address concerns about the
Regulatory Authority's compliance actions, except that a hearing request does
not stay the Regulatory Authority's restriction or exclusion order, a hold
order, or the imposition of a summary suspension.
   (F)   Ceasing operation and contacting the County Health Department. 
      (1)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment shall immediately discontinue operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist because of an
emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of electrical or water
service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic materials, onset of an
apparent food-borne illness outbreak, gross unsanitary occurrence or condition,
or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
      (2)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
   (G)   Resuming operation. If a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment has discontinued operations for the reasons stated above or
otherwise according to law, the operator must obtain approval from the County
Health Department before resuming operations.
   (H)   Enforcement options. The following are options available to County
Health Department for consideration:
      (1)   Conduct administrative proceeding for suspension and/or revocation
of the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment permit in
front of the Health Officer.
      (2)   The County Health Officer may issue an Order To Abate based on a
condition that may transmit, generate, or promote disease. Failure on the part
of the operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement of the
order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the County
Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney.
      (3)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation,
request the County Attorney, the Assistant County Attorney or their designee to
institute a proceeding in the courts for the enforcement of the ordinance
violation. See I.C. 34-28-5-1.
   (I)   Hearing procedure.  
      (1)   Any owner of a bed and breakfast and/or food establishment upon
which a violation is alleged to exist who disputes the existence of a
violation, or disputes the nature of the abatement action ordered in the
abatement notice, may, within ten calendar days of service of the abatement
notice, serve upon the director of the Board of Health a written request for a
hearing. The written request does not need to be in any particular form, but
shall clearly indicate that a hearing is requested, and shall set out the
nature of the individual's disagreement with the content of the abatement
notice.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the written request for a hearing, the Director
shall schedule the matter with the Hearing Board. The Hearing Board shall be
comprised of the Health Officer or his or her designee and two appointed
members of the County Board of Health's Board of Directors. This Hearing Board
shall function as hearing body to adjudicate the matter.
      (3)   The County Health Department, by its director or designee, shall
give written notice to the party requesting the hearing of the date and time of
the hearing. Such notice shall be given no less than five calendar days prior
to the date set for hearing. A shorter period of time may be granted, if
requested by either party and agreed upon.
      (4)   At the hearing, which may be adjourned from time to time, it shall
be the County Health Officer's burden to go forward with evidence sufficient to
demonstrate that a violation exists, and that the actions required are
reasonably calculated to abate the violation within a reasonable period of
time. The party requesting the hearing shall have the right to dispute the
existence of the violation, the reasonableness of the remedy, or the
reasonableness of the time allowed to remedial action. The party requesting the
hearing may propose alternative remedies or time periods for remedial action,
or alternate remediation plans.
      (5)   All such hearings shall be open to the public pursuant to Indiana
statutes on open meetings.
      (6)   Upon conclusion of the presentation of evidence and oral argument,
if any, the County Board of Health's Board of Directors shall deliberate and
render a decision either confirming, amending or rescinding the disputed
content of the abatement notice.
      (7)   All time parameters set out in the abatement notice for completion
of compliance actions shall be tolled, pending the outcome of the Hearing
Board's decision. In cases where the actions of the Health Officer are upheld,
or are upheld as modified by the Hearing Board, it shall be the responsibility
of the Hearing Board, in its decision, to establish time periods for completion
of compliance activities held in abeyance during the hearing process.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-22, passed 5-16-05; Am. Ord. 2009-BCC-08, passed 2-16-09)
§ 111.06 APPEAL.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9(e), a person who received a penalty under this
chapter may appeal the order imposing the penalty to a court of record in
Howard County no later than 60 days after the day on which the order is
entered.
(Ord. 2005-BCC-22, passed 5-16-05; Am. Ord. 2009-BCC-08, passed 2-16-09)
CHAPTER 112: REGULATION OF PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Jurisdiction
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   License application
   
112.05   License fee
   
112.06   Investigation of applicant
   
112.07   Standards for issuance of license
   
112.08   Agent for service of process
   
112.09   Duty of auditor
   
112.10   Term of license
   
112.11   Transferability of license
   
112.12   Exhibition of registration
   
112.13   Hours of soliciting or peddling
   
112.14   Grounds for license revocation
   
112.15   License revocation procedure
   
112.16   Appeal to County Board of Commissioners
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all of Howard County, except for the City of
Kokomo and the Town of Greentown which have enacted similar Ordinances.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is a peddler or
solicitor.
   COUNTY. All of Howard County, except for the City of Kokomo and the Town of
Greentown.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, books, magazines, wares and foodstuffs.
   PEDDLER. Any person who travels from house to house by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or any person who,
without traveling from house to house, sells or offers goods for sale from any
public place within the county; provided, that the term shall not include a
transient merchant under I.C. 25-37-l-2 et seq.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from house to house taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods delivered in the future or for
services or repairs to be performed presently or in the future.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person who is a peddler or solicitor shall obtain a license before
engaging in such activity within the county; provided that no such license is
required for persons, firms, or organizations (1) who solicit funds or sell
goods or services for the purpose of raising revenue on behalf of not-for-
profit organizations, or (2) which have transacted business from a fixed
business location in the county continuously for a one-year period prior to
enactment of this chapter. The license shall entitle the licensee to peddle or
solicit goods or services from house to house in the county only between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file a form
application with the County Sheriff’s Department. Such application shall be
signed by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners in a partnership,
or by the president if a corporation.
   (B)   The Sheriff’s Department shall make available a form application which
shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant.
      (2)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the county and the local address of such individual, his or
her permanent address, and the capacity in which he or she will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation.
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business.
      (5)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services to be
offered for sale or delivered, and if goods, their invoice value, whether they
are to be sold by sample as well as from stock, where and by whom such goods
are manufactured or grown, and where such goods are at the time of the
application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business.
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (B)(2) or (3) above has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor,
and if so, the nature of each offense and the penalty assessed for it.
      (8)   The applicant's date of birth, social security number and a current
picture of the applicant.
      (9)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
      (10)   A consent for the Sheriff to perform a criminal background check
on the applicant.
   (C)   In addition, all applicants for licenses required by this chapter
shall attach to their license application the following:
      (1)   Two letters of recommendation from any person residing or doing
business in the county certifying the applicant's good moral character and
business responsibility or, in lieu of such letters, other evidence may be used
by the Sheriff to satisfy his duties under §
112.08.
      (2)   If required by the Sheriff, copies of all printed advertising
proposed to be used in connection with the applicant's business.
      (3)   Credentials from the person, if any, for which the applicant
proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as such
representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to all other attachments, a statement from a licensed
physician, dated not more than ten calendar days prior to the date of
application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or communicable
disease.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
§ 112.05 LICENSE FEE.
   A fee reflecting the actual cost of processing an application and issuing a
license shall be charged by the Sheriff. The fee shall be in the amount of $50
for the first application filed under §
112.04 in any given calendar year, and $20 for a second application in the same
calendar year.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
§ 112.06 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   On receipt of an application for a license required by this chapter, the
Sheriff shall cause an investigation of the applicant's business reputation,
moral character and criminal background.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
§ 112.07 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Sheriff shall approve an application for a license required by
this chapter and issue the license unless such investigation discloses tangible
evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a substantial
threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
   (B)   In particular, any of the following shall constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of the application: tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude.
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application.
      (3)   Has committed prior violations or ordinances pertaining to
peddlers, solicitors, and the like.
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts.
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
§ 112.08 AGENT FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   (A)   On the receipt of notice of approval of his or her application, an
applicant for a license required by the provisions of this chapter shall file
with the Sheriff an instrument appointing the County Auditor as his or her true
and lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of
process for and on behalf of the applicant in respect to any matter arising
under this chapter.
   (B)   Forms for the required statement shall be available at the Sheriff’s
office. Such form or instrument shall contain recitals to the effect that the
applicant consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made
on the agent, and when made shall be taken and held to be as valid as if
personally served on the applicant, according to the law of this or any other
state, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such
acknowledgment.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
§ 112.09 DUTY OF AUDITOR.
   Immediately on service of any process on the Auditor pursuant to this
chapter, the Auditor shall send, by registered mail, a copy of the process to
the person licensed under this chapter at his or her last known address.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
§ 112.10 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall automatically expire 60
calendar days after the date of the issuance thereof.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
§ 112.11 TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
transferable.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 EXHIBITION OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The Sheriff shall issue a registration receipt to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The registration shall contain the words
“licensed peddler” or “licensed solicitor”, the licensee's picture, the
expiration date of the license, and the number of the license.
   (B)   All peddlers or solicitors shall exhibit their registration at the
request of any person.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 HOURS OF SOLICITING OR PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to peddle or solicit goods or services
from house to house at any time other than between 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 GROUNDS FOR LICENSE REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application.
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license.
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
   (E)   The licensee conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or
in such a way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or
general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
§ 112.15 LICENSE REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Sheriff after
notice of hearing to be held before the Sheriff or his designee. A notice of
hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically
the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice
shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address, at least ten
calendar days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
§ 112.16 APPEAL TO COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
112.07 or
112.15 shall have the right to appeal to the County Board of Commissioners.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the County Board of Commissioners
within 14 calendar days after notice of the decision has been mailed to such
person's last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for
appeal. The Board shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for
such hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
112.15.
   (B)   The order of the County Board of Commissioners after such hearing
shall be final.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to the revocation of license provided in §
112.15, any person, organization, partnership, firm or corporation who violates
this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $250 for a first offense,
not to exceed $500 for a second offense, and not to exceed $1,000 for each
subsequent offense. The Sheriff may impose such fines and such fines may be
enforced, if necessary, by the County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   In addition to all other remedies, actions and penalties provided for
herein, the county in its discretion may seek injunctive relief to prevent
ongoing violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-BCC-35, passed 8-21-06)
CHAPTER 113: TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING REGULATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Facility permits
   
113.03   Artist/piercer permits
   
113.04   Fees
   
113.05   Inspection
   
113.06   Compliance and enforcement
   
113.07   Appeals
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly appointed health officer or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   HEPATITIS B VACCINE SERIES. A series of vaccinations received at the
recommended interval of 0 months, one month, and six months, as a measure to
prevent the spread of Hepatitis B virus among individuals who are exposed to
blood and body fluids.
(Ord. 2009-BCC-04, passed 2-16-09)
§ 113.02 FACILITY PERMITS.
   (A)   General. It is unlawful for a person to operate any tattoo facility,
body piercing facility, or temporary tattoo or piercing facility in the county
without first obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer. The valid
permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the facility. A separate
permit shall be required for each tattoo or piercing facility operated by any
person. Permits are not transferable from person to person or place to place.
   (B)   Facility permit period. A tattoo and/or body piercing facility permit
shall be issued for a term beginning January 1, and/or before commencement of
operation, and expiring December 31 of the same year, and shall be applied for
by the operator annually. The valid permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
location within the facility.
   (C)   Facility permit content. The permit shall provide the name and address
of the owner of the business and the name and address of the tattoo/ piercing
facility, the date of issue and the date of expiration. It shall bear the
signature of the Health Officer and the County Seal. The permits shall not be
transferable.
   (D)   Facility permit application. The Health Department shall provide the
application forms for the facility permits. The permit application shall be
completed, signed, and submitted by the operator, along with proof of annual
Blood-Borne Pathogen Training for anyone employed by or acting on behalf of the
facility that might reasonably be exposed to blood or body fluids.
(Ord. 2009-BCC-04, passed 2-16-09) Penalty, see §
113.06
§ 113.03 ARTIST/PIERCER PERMITS.
   (A)   General. It is unlawful for any tattoo artist who does not possess a
valid tattoo artist permit to provide a tattoo to an individual, or any body
piercer who does not possess a valid body piercer permit to perform body
piercing on any individual. Permits are not transferable from person to person.
   (B)   Tattoo artist permit or body piercer permit period. The permit shall
be issued for a term beginning January 1 and/or before performing any piercing
or before providing a tattoo to an individual. The applicant shall submit an
application provided by the Health Department, accompanied by proof of receipt
of Hepatitis B vaccination series. After having met all prerequisite
requirements, a permit may be issued and shall expire on December 31 of the
same year and shall be applied for by the artist or piercer annually,
accompanied by required proof of vaccination series status, as required.
   (C)   Tattoo artist or body piercer applicant qualification. In addition to
meeting all the regulations of the Indiana State Department of Health as found
in Title 410 I.A.C. 1-5, each tattoo artist and each body piercer shall provide
documentation showing at least the first of the series of Hepatitis B
vaccinations has been received, and must show proof of completion of the series
within six months of issue of first license.
   (D)   Change of ownership. The facility operator and each artist and body
piercer have the responsibility to notify the County Health Department of any
change of ownership or employee at the permitted facility.
   (E)   Training responsibilities of the operator. An individual or entity
that is an operator shall comply with the following training responsibilities
listed in 410 I.A.C. 1-5-24:
      (1)   Ensure that the training described in the Indiana Occupational
Safety and Health Administration's blood-borne pathogens standard (as found in
29 C.F.R. 1910.1030) is provided to all tattoo artists and body piercers,
anyone employed by the facility or anyone acting on behalf of the facility, who
has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood or OPIM.
      (2)   Ensure that training on the handling of infectious waste is
provided to all tattoo artists and body piercers, or anyone employed by the
facility or anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably
anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with
blood or OPIM.
      (3)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (E)(1) of
this section is maintained, as required under the Indiana Occupational Safety
and Health Administration's blood-borne pathogens standard (as found in 29
C.F.R. 1910.1030) of an individual's participation in the training that is
provided. The record shall be made available to the department for inspection
upon request.
      (4)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (E)(2) of
this section is maintained.
   (F)   Operator responsibilities. The operator shall comply with the
following responsibilities listed in 410 I.A.C. 1-5-25.
      (1)   The operator shall ensure that tattoo artists, body piercers, or
anyone employed by the facility or anyone acting on behalf of the facility who
has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood have and use personal protective equipment and expendables
needed to implement the precautions required by this rule and the Indiana
Occupational Safety and Health Administration's blood-borne pathogens standard
(as found in 29 C.F.R. 1910.1030).
      (2)   The operator shall require tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility, or anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood to provide evidence of compliance with the universal
precautions education requirements contained in this chapter.
      (3)   The operator shall display a description of compliance with the
requirements contained in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (4)   The operator shall display, and provide to each patron, written
materials prepared or approved by the Department explaining universal
precautions and patrons' rights under this rule, These materials shall include
information on how to report violations of universal precautions and shall
include information regarding the Department's duties to investigate.
(Ord. 2009-BCC-04, passed 2-16-09) Penalty, see §
113.06
§ 113.04 FEES.
   Permit fees and licensure fees under this chapter shall be set by the County
Health Department Fee Collection Ordinance, as provided by the Statutes of the
State of Indiana, I.C. 16-20-1-27.
(Ord. 2009-BCC-04, passed 2-16-09)
§ 113.05 INSPECTION.
   The County Health Department shall inspect a tattoo or body piercing
facility annually at a minimum, to determine compliance with this chapter. The
Health Department may modify the interval between inspections by reviewing the
facility’s historical demonstration of compliance with inspection criteria.
(Ord. 2009-BCC-04, passed 2-16-09)
§ 113.06 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($2,500) for
each violation. Each day the violation exists shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2009-BCC-04, passed 2-16-09)
§ 113.07 APPEALS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9(e), a person who received a penalty under this
resolution may appeal the order imposing the penalty to a court of record in
Howard County no later than 60 days after the day on which the order is
entered.
(Ord. 2009-BCC-04, passed 2-16-09)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Diving and jumping from bridges
   
130.02   Firearms prohibited in the County Courthouse
   
130.03   Operation of skateboards and wheeling or sliding devices on certain
county property prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Non-smoking areas designated, see §
36.01
   Use and access to the County Courthouse lawn, see §
36.03
§ 130.01 DIVING AND JUMPING FROM BRIDGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to jump, dive or fish from any bridge
located in Howard County outside the corporate limits of the City of Kokomo,
Town of Greentown or the Town of Russiaville.
(`83 Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 1970-9, passed 11-2-70; Am. Ord. 2007-BCC-42, passed
10-15-07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 FIREARMS PROHIBITED IN THE COUNTY COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   Firearms prohibited. No person shall enter the Howard County
Courthouse in possession of a gun or firearm of any type, whether loaded or
unloaded, concealed or not concealed, operable or inoperable, with a permit or
without a permit; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to uniformed
law enforcement or court security officers, or to plain- clothes law
enforcement or court security officers who publicly display identification.
   (B)   Posting. Notice of this section shall be conspicuously posted at all
entrances to the Howard County Courthouse.
(BCC Ord. 1995-18, passed 5-15-95) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 OPERATION OF SKATEBOARDS AND WHEELING OR SLIDING DEVICES ON CERTAIN
COUNTY PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply:
      (1)   COUNTY PROPERTY. The areas owned by Howard County adjacent to the
Howard County Court House, Howard County Government Building and the Howard
County Administration Center, including the lawn, walks, disability ramps,
steps, walls, retaining walls, planters or curbs, but excluding the city
sidewalks which bound such property.
      (2)   OPERATION. The act of moving, using, riding or setting in motion.
      (3)   SKATEBOARD. A foot board mounted upon wheels and usually propelled
by the user who sometimes stands, sits, kneels or lies upon the device while it
is in motion.
      (4)   WHEELING OR SLIDING DEVICES. Include but are not limited to
skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates or bicycles, or any other device
containing wheels which can be ridden on or otherwise utilized by an individual
or individuals in order to move about other than walking.
   (B)   Operation prohibited. The operation of a skateboard or wheeling or
sliding device shall be prohibited upon county property at any time.
   (C)   Violation. Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an
infraction and may be fined in the amount of $50 for the first violation and
the amount of $75 for each subsequent violation, payable to the Howard County
Violations Clerk within 30 days pursuant to the Code of Howard County, §
10.98.
   (D)   Detention of violator.  
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5-3, whenever any county law enforcement
officer believes in good faith that a person has violated this section, such
law enforcement officer may detain that person for a time sufficient to:
         (a)   Inform the person of the alleged violation;
         (b)   Obtain the person’s name, address and date of birth or driver’s
license if in the person’s possession; and
         (c)   Deliver to such person a written notice of violation.
      (2)    If a law enforcement officer detains a person because the law
enforcement officer believes that person has committed an infraction or
ordinance violation, the law enforcement officer may not, without the consent
of the person, extract or otherwise download information from a cellular
telephone or another wireless or cellular communications device possessed by
the person at the time the person is detained unless:
         (a)   The law enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that
the cellular telephone or other wireless or cellular communications device has
been used in the commission of a crime;
         (b)   The information is extracted or otherwise downloaded under a
valid search warrant; or
         (c)   Otherwise authorized by law.
   (E)   Exclusions. Notwithstanding the definition of skateboard or wheeling
or sliding device, nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of a
wheelchair, a stroller, or similar devices for the purpose of helping an
elderly, disabled individual, infant or other individual needing assistance in
moving from place to place; nor shall it prohibit the use of a bicycle for
transportation purposes.
   (F)   Enforcing authority. The authority for enforcing this section shall be
with the Howard County sheriff’s department and the county court security
officers.
(Ord. BCC 1999-34, passed 8-16-99)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   MAJOR STREETS AND HIGHWAYS AND SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT IN NEW DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT
      
155.   EXCAVATION REGULATIONS
      
156.   STORM WATER EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
      
157.   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Conformance required
   
150.03   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
150.04   Administrative cooperation
   
150.05   Construction permit required
   
150.06   Permit and inspection fees
   
150.07   Appeals
   
150.08   Stop orders
   
150.09   Unsafe buildings; enforcement of building standards
Cross-reference:
   Building Department, see §
31.01
   Construction of private driveways, standards adopted, see §
94.01
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the protection of life, public
safety and real and personal property in the design and construction of
buildings and structures in the county.
(`83 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 1977-41, passed 1-30-78)
§ 150.02 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, relocation and use
of buildings, structures and dwellings shall conform with this chapter and such
ordinances as may be hereafter adopted for such purposes by the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as
owner, lessee, sublessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any
building or structure, other than fences in the county, or cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(`83 Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 1977-41, passed 1-30-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following rules, regulations and codes are hereby adopted by
reference as the rules and regulations governing the construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, relocation and use of buildings and structures in the
county.
      (1)   The Indiana Construction Rules and Regulations, Volume I, 1973
edition, amended 1974, promulgated by the Administrative Building Council of
Indiana.
      (2)   The One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, 1976 edition, promulgated by
the Administrative Building Council of Indiana.
      (3)   The National Electrical Code, 1978 edition, adopted by the National
Fire Protection Association.
      (4)   The Plumbing Rules and Regulations, Volume III, 1976 edition,
amended 1976, promulgated by the Administrative Building Council of Indiana.
      (5)   The Mechanical Rules and Regulations, Volume IV, 1976 edition,
amended 1977, promulgated by the Administrative Building Council of Indiana.
   (B)   Two copies of the foregoing rules and regulations are on file for
reference in the office of the County Building Commission in the County
Courthouse.
(`83 Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 1977-41, passed 1-30-78)
§ 150.04 ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION.
   In the administration of this chapter, and any other ordinances incident
hereto, the Department of Buildings shall cooperate with and coordinate its
activities with all affected or related city, county and state agencies so as
to prevent unnecessary overlapping, duplication and waste in the administrative
process.
(`83 Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 1977-41, passed 1-30-78)
§ 150.05 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to the construction of any building, structure, dwelling or any
part thereof, no extension, repair or alteration of any existing building, no
plumbing, no electrical work, no heating work, no ventilation work, nor air
conditioning work having a contract price or estimated cost of more than $100
shall be started until a statement in writing of the work proposed to be done
shall first be submitted by the contractor or individual in charge of the work
to and approved by the Building Commissioner, and a permit issued by him or her
for the proposed construction, alteration, repair or extension work.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner, before issuing a permit therefor, may
require the applicant to submit and file a set of detailed plans and
specifications subject to the approval of the Building Commissioner, a copy of
which shall be retained in his or her office. No changes from the approved
plans or specifications shall be made until a revised copy thereof has been
submitted to and approved by the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall refuse to issue a permit in any case
where the construction or work proposed is in violation of any statute of the
state or any provisions of any ordinance of the county.
   (D)   No permit shall be required for any outside or inside painting or
other cosmetic repair or maintenance where the building is not altered or
extended.
(`83 Code, § 150.05) (Ord. 1977-41, passed 1-30-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.06 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   The fee for all permits and inspections shall be as follows.
   (A)   $5 for construction costs not exceeding $5,000.
   (B)   $9 for construction costs of more than $5,000 and less than $10,000.
   (C)   $13 for construction costs of more than $10,000 and less than $15,000.
   (D)   $17 for construction costs of more than $15,000 and less than $20,000.
   (E)   $20 for construction costs of more than $20,000 and less than $25,000.
   (F)   $20 plus $0.50 per $1,000 for construction costs over $25,000 and less
than $100,000.
   (G)   $57.50 plus $0.35 per $1,000 for construction costs of $100,000, with
a maximum permit fee of $100.
   (H)   An inspection fee of $7.50 for each required inspection.
(`83 Code, § 150.06) (Ord. 1977-41, passed 1-30-78)
Cross-reference:
Board of Health service fees, see §§
92.15 et seq.
§ 150.07 APPEALS.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner's
decision, first through a body appointed by the Board of County Commissioners,
being the Board of Appeals, and then through the Executive Committee of the
Administrative Building Council of Indiana, in accordance with provisions of
I.C. 22-11-1-21.5.
(`83 Code, § 150.07) (Ord. 1977-41, passed 1-30-78)
§ 150.08 STOP ORDERS.
   Whenever any work is being done in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, or in variance with the terms of any permit issued for such work, the
Building Commissioner may order all work on the job stopped until such
violations or variance is eliminated and any work or installation made in
violation of this chapter is corrected. Such stop order, if oral, shall be
followed by a written stop order within 35 hours excluding Saturday, Sunday or
holidays. It shall be unlawful to do or perform any work in violation of such
stop order except as may be necessary to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property, or to correct such violation or variance. Such stop order may be
revoked by the Building Commissioner.
(`83 Code, § 150.08) (Ord. 1977-41, passed 1-30-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.09 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; ENFORCEMENT OF BUILDING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adoption of state law; application. The provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et
seq. (the Act), concerning the enforcement of building standards, is hereby
adopted in their entirety, and as they may be subsequently amended, and are
made a part hereof by reference the same as if fully set out herein. As so
adopted, the Act shall apply and be enforceable in the unincorporated area of
the county.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter and the Act, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Howard County Plan Commission shall be the executive
department authorized by this section to administer the provisions of the Act.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The enforcement authority shall be the Executive
Director of the Howard County Plan Commission, the designated department.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. That person or persons designated as such by the Board of
County Commissioners under the authority of I.C. 36-7-9-2. The hearing
authority shall perform those functions specified by the Act.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. As set out in I.C. 36-7-9-2, the term is
hereby specifically incorporated by reference into this section as if fully set
out herein.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. The description for the term contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the county by adding the following definition: Any building or
structure which has any or all of the conditions or defects hereinafter
described shall be deemed to be an UNSAFE BUILDING; provided, that such
conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property or safety
of the public or its occupants are endangered.
      (1)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the county, or of any law of the state or ordinance of the county relating
to the conditions, location or structure of buildings.
      (2)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
   (C)   Designation of executive department. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-3, and
consistent with the definitions contained in division (B), the County Plan
Commission is hereby designated as the executive department of the county
responsible for the administration of this section.
(BCC Ord. 1996-41, passed 8-19-96) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Statement of purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Duties of the Administrator
   
151.05   Regulatory flood elevation
   
151.06   Improvement location permit
   
151.07   Preventing increased damages
   
151.08   Protecting buildings
   
151.09   Other development requirements
   
151.10   Variances
   
151.11   Disclaimer of liability
   
151.12   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.13   Violations
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature granted the power to local units of government (I.C.
36-7-4) to control land use within their jurisdictions in order to accomplish
the provisions as set forth in this chapter.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95)
§ 151.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to guide development in the flood
hazard areas in order to reduce the potential for loss of life and property,
reduce the potential for health and safety hazards, and to reduce the potential
for extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief.
   (B)   Under the authority granted to local units of government to control
land use within their jurisdiction, which includes taking into account the
effects of flooding, the Board of County Commissioners hereby adopt the
following floodplain management regulations in order to accomplish the
following:
      (1)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
      (2)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      (3)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      (4)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
      (5)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating flood blighted areas; and
      (6)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for
structures and their contents in the county by fulfilling the requirements of
the National Flood Insurance Program.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   The term does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
buildings.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of this chapter.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANU- FACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FBFM. Flood Boundary and Floodway Map.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FHBM. Flood Hazard Boundary Map.
   FIRM. Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the floodway fringe
districts.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a Special Flood Hazard
Area (SFHA). A LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations
and elevations.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor of a building;
      (2)   The basement floor;
      (3)   The garage floor, if the garage is connected to the building;
      (4)   The first floor of a building elevated on pilings or constructed on
a crawl space;
      (5)   The floor level of an enclosure below an elevated building where
the walls of the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces by allowing for the entry and exit of flood water;
         (b)   At least two openings are designed and maintained for the entry
and exit of flood water, and these openings provide a total area of at least
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed floor area subject to
flooding. The bottom of an opening can be no more than one foot above grade.
Doorways and windows do not qualify as openings under this clause.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term does not
include a “recreational vehicle.”
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of this chapter.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis, 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as quarters for
recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure which is
acceptable to and approved by the Indiana Natural Resources Commission and the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any
location is as defined in §
151.05. The term is also known as the “Base Flood.”
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
county that are subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the
county are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the
county prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated July 16,
1981.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not
include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of state or
local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any alteration of a
historic structure; provided, that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a historic structure.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95; Am. BCC Ord. 2002-19, passed 6-3-02)
§ 151.04 DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Plan Commission Director shall implement this chapter and
hereafter be referred to as the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator for the county is appointed to review all
development and subdivision proposals to ensure compliance with this chapter,
including but not limited to the following duties:
      (1)   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the county meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Natural Resources Commission for all development projects subject to §
151.07, and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit or letter of recommendation).
      (4)   Maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the top of the
lowest floor (including basement) of new and substantially improved buildings
constructed in the SFHA. Inspect before, during and after construction.
      (5)   Maintain a record of the engineer's certificate and the “as-built”
floodproofed elevation of all buildings subject to §
151.08.
      (6)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this
chapter. Submit reports as required for the National Flood Insurance Program.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request regulatory
flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letters of Map Revision
(LOMR), copies of Department of Natural Resources permits and letters of
recommendation, federal permit documents, and “as- built” elevation and
floodproofing data for all buildings constructed subject to this chapter.
      (8)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Coordinating Office prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of such
notifications to FEMA.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95)
§ 151.05 REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter's protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below. Whenever a party disagrees
with the best available data, the party submitting the detailed engineering
study needs to replace existing data with better data and submit it to the
Department of Natural Resources for review and approval.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation and floodway limits for the SFHAs of
Wildcat Creek, Kokomo Creek, Little Wildcat Creek and Little Wildcat Creek West
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance
Study of the county dated January 16, 1981, and the corresponding FBFM dated
July 16, 1981, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (C)   The regulatory flood elevation for each SFHA delineated as an “AH
Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map of the county.
   (D)   The regulatory flood elevation for each of the remaining SFHAs
delineated as an “A Zone” on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the county shall
be according to the best data available as provided by the Department of
Natural Resources.
   (E)   If the SFHA is delineated as “AH Zone” or “AO Zone,” the elevation (or
depth) will be delineated on the county Flood Insurance Rate Map. If the SFHA
is delineated as “ZONE A” on the county Flood Insurance Rate Map, the
regulatory flood elevation shall be according to the best data available as
provided by the Department of Natural Resources.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95)
§ 151.06 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by
state law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining an
improvement location permit from the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator shall not issue an improvement location permit if the proposed
development does not meet all of the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The application for an improvement location permit shall be
accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed development. Elevation should be in National Geodetic Vertical
Datum of 1929 (NGVD) or North American Vertical Datum (NAVD). In either case
the conversion formula should be included.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for an improvement location permit, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine if the site is located within an
identified floodway, floodway fringe or within the floodplain where the limits
of the floodway have not yet been determined.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodway, the Zoning Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the Department of Natural Resources and
apply for a permit for construction in a floodway.
         (a)   Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit from the Natural
Resources Commission is required prior to the issuance of a local building
permit for any excavation, deposit, construction or obstruction activity
located in the floodway. This includes land preparation activities such as
filling, grading, clearing, paving and the like undertaken before the actual
start of construction of the building.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Zoning Administrator until a
permit has been issued by the Natural Resources Commission granting approval
for construction in the floodway. Once a permit has been issued by the Natural
Resources Commission, the Zoning Administrator may issue the local improvement
location permit; provided, the provisions contained in §§
151.07 and
151.08 have been met. The improvement location permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit issued by the Natural Resources Commission.
      (2)   If the site is located in an identified floodway fringe, then the
Zoning Administrator may issue the local improvement location permit; provided,
the provisions contained in §§
151.07 and
151.08 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the Flood
Protection Grade (FPG).
      (3)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage
area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Zoning
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
         (a)   No action shall be taken by the Zoning Administrator until
either a permit for construction in the floodway or a letter of recommendation
citing the 100-year flood elevation and the recommended Flood Protection Grade
has been received from the Department of Natural Resources.
         (b)   Once the Zoning Administrator has received the proper permit or
letter of recommendation approving the proposed development, an improvement
location permit may be issued provided the conditions of the improvement
location permit are not less restrictive than the conditions received from
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in §§
151.07 and
151.08 have been met.
      (4)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Zoning Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodway, floodway fringe and 100-year elevation for the site.
Upon receipt, the Zoning Administrator may issue the local improvement location
permit; provided, the provisions contained in §§
151.07 and
151.08 have been met.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES.
   (A)   No development in the SFHA shall create a damaging or potentially
damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health and
safety.
   (B)   Within the floodway identified on the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map,
the Flood Insurance Rate Map, or engineering analysis as provided in §
151.06(C)(4), the following standards shall apply:
      (1)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development will cause any increase in the
elevation of the regulatory flood; and
      (2)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal
Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
   (C)   Within all SFHAs identified as A Zones (no 100-year flood elevation or
floodway or floodway fringe delineation has been provided), the following
standard shall apply: the total cumulative effect of the proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
increase the regulatory flood elevation more than 0.1 foot and will not
increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
   (D)   Public health standards in all SFHAs.
      (1)   No development in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the Flood Protection Grade, unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed storage tank or building
constructed according to the requirements of §
151.08.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste disposal
systems may be permitted; provided, all manholes or other above ground openings
are located above the FPG, or those which are located below the FPG are
watertight.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.08 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
151.07, all buildings to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG.
   (B)   This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new building having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Structural alterations made to an existing (previously unaltered)
building, the cost of which equals or exceeds 40% of the value of the pre-
altered building (excluding the value of the land), or structural alterations
made to any previously altered building;
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged building that are
valued at or more than 40% of the market value of the building (excluding the
value of the land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage; and
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
   (C)   This building protection requirement may be met by one of the
following methods. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of
compliance with these building protection standards as required in §
151.04.
      (1)   A residential or non-residential building may be constructed on a
permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the Standard
Proctor Test method.
         (b)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
of the building before sloping below the FPG.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor including basements (see definition
of lowest floor in §
151.03) shall be at or above the FPG.
      (2)   A residential or non-residential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on posts, piers,
columns, extended walls or other types of similar foundation; provided the
walls of any enclosure below the elevated floor shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for
the entry and exit of flood waters, through providing a minimum of two openings
(in addition to doorways and windows) having a total area of one square foot
for every two square feet of enclosed area subject to flooding. The bottom of
all such openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade. Provided
further, that any enclosure below the elevated floor is used for storage of
vehicles and building access.
         (b)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as buoyancy, current, waves, ice and
floating debris.
         (c)   All areas below the FPG shall be constructed of materials
resistant to flood damage. The top of the lowest floor (including basement) and
all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and utility meters shall be located at or above the FPG. Water and sewer pipes,
electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed
service facilities may be located below the FPG.
      (3)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or
substantially improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the
following anchoring requirements:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all manufactured
homes to be place on a site;
            1.   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood.
         (b)   This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not
been substantially damaged by a flood. The manufactured home shall be elevated
so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home chassis is supported by
reinforced piers or other foundation elements that are no less than 36 inches
in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on the site for less than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in division (C)(3)
of this section.
      (5)   A non-residential building may be floodproofed to the FPG (in lieu
of elevating) if done in accordance with the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the
building has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
regulatory flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts from debris or ice.
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.09 OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall review all proposed subdivisions to
determine whether the subdivision lies in a flood hazard area as defined
elsewhere by chapter. If the Zoning Administrator finds the subdivision to be
so located, the Zoning Administrator shall forward plans and materials to the
Department of Natural Resources for review and comment. The Zoning
Administrator shall require appropriate changes and modifications in order to
assure that:
      (1)   It is consistent with the need to minimize flood damages;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems, are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      (4)   On-site waste disposal systems, if provided, will be so located and
designed to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during the
occurrence of the regulatory flood.
   (B)   Developers shall record the 100-year flood elevation on all
subdivision plats containing lands (identified elsewhere by this chapter)
within a flood hazard area prior to submitting the plats for approval by the
Plan Commission.
   (C)   All owners of manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within
the SFHA identified as Zone A on the community's FHBM or FIRM shall develop an
evacuation plan for those lots located in the SFHA and file it with the local
Plan Commission and have it filed with and approved by the appropriate
community emergency management authorities.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95)
§ 151.10 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may consider issuing a variance to the
terms and provisions of this chapter provided the applicant demonstrates that:
      (1)   There exists a good and sufficient cause for the requested
variance;
      (2)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will constitute
an exceptional hardship to the applicant, and
      (3)   The granting of the requested variance will not increase flood
heights, create additional threats to public safety, cause additional public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may issue a variance to the terms and
provisions of this chapter subject to the following standards and conditions:
      (1)   No variance or exception for a residential use within a floodway
subject to §
151.07(B) or (C) may be granted.
      (2)   Any variance or exception granted in a floodway subject to §
151.07(B) or (C) will require a permit from the Department of Natural
Resources.
      (3)   Variances or exceptions to the building protection standards of §
151.08 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one- half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
      (4)   Variance or exception may be granted for the reconstruction or
restoration of any structure individually listed on the Register of Historic
Places or the State Survey of Historic Architectural, Archaeological and
Cultural Sites, Structures, Districts, and Objects;
      (5)   All variances shall give the minimum relief necessary and be such
that the maximum practical flood protection will be given to the proposed
construction; and
      (6)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall issue a written notice to the
recipient of a variance or exception that the proposed construction will be
subject to increased risks to life and property and could require payment of
increased flood insurance premiums.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95)
§ 151.11 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the county or the Planning Commission, the Department
of Natural Resources or the State of Indiana for any flood damage that results
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95)
§ 151.12 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Board of
County Commissioners to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program. However, this chapter does not repeal the original
resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the Program. Nor does
this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or
deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants
or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall take precedence. In addition, the Board of County
Commissioners shall assure that all National Flood Insurance Program
regulations and laws (312 I.A.C. 10, I.C. 14-28-1 and I.C. 14-28-3) are met.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95; Am. BCC Ord. 2002-19, passed 6-3-02)
§ 151.13 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Failure to obtain an improvement location permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance
shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations shall be
considered a common nuisance and shall be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the Zoning Code adopted in Chapter 153. All violations shall
be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county or the Planning Commission
from taking such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All
costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(BCC Ord. 1994-53, passed 1-23-95) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: MAJOR STREETS AND HIGHWAYS AND SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Major Streets and Highway Map and drawings adopted
   
152.03   Designation of major streets and highways
   
152.04   Opening or widening of streets
   
152.05   Location of streets
   
152.06   Consideration by public agencies
   
152.07   Issuance of permits
   
152.08   Continuing authority of the Commission
   
152.09   Variances
Subdivision Control
   
152.20   Establishment of control
   
152.21   Preliminary consideration
   
152.22   Preliminary plat required
   
152.23   Preliminary plat preparation
   
152.24   Preliminary plat approval
   
152.25   Final plat required
   
152.26   Final plat specifications
   
152.27   Final plat approval
   
152.28   Plat certificates and deed of dedication
Design Standards
   
152.40   Standards of design generally
   
152.41   Streets
   
152.42   Blocks
   
152.43   Lots
   
152.44   Easements
   
152.45   Building lines
   
152.46   Public open spaces
Standards for Improvements
   
152.60   Standards for improvements generally
   
152.61   Monuments and markers
   
152.62   Streets
   
152.63   Sewers
   
152.64   Water
   
152.65   Drainage
   
152.66   Soil erosion and sedimentation control
   
152.67   Curb and gutter
   
152.68   Sidewalks
   
152.69   Street signs
   
152.70   Inspection
   
Appendix A: Plat certificates and deed of dedication
   
Appendix B:Figures and illustrations
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations generally, see
Chapter 150
   Construction of private driveways, standards adopted, see §
94.01
   Flood damage prevention, see
Chapter 151
   Thoroughfare Plan amendments, see
T.S.O. IV
Editor's note: This Chapter, previously adopted by reference in §
152.01 of the 1983 Code, was originally enacted by Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-
77, and subsequently amended by Res. passed 1-3-78 and Ord. 1983-1, passed 1-3-
83. All amendments to this Chapter beginning with BCC Ord. 1993-9, passed 3-22-
93, shall be cited in the legislative history of the specific provision so
amended.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNER. Those owners of property contiguous to the subject
property, ignoring all intervening streams, street and railroad rights-of-way.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk or easement,
that provides secondary access for the special accommodation of the abutting
property.
   BLOCK. Property having frontage on one side of a street and located between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest intersecting
or intercepting street or railroad right-of- way, waterway or other barrier.
When intersecting or intercepting streets and railroad rights-of-way, waterways
or other barriers do not exist, within 330 feet on either side of the
centerline of the area, the unit of 660 feet shall be used. The measurement may
begin at a quarter section line and terminate each 660 feet unless intersected
by a street.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of Howard County, Indiana.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Howard County Board of Health.
   BUILDING LINE. Means the line that establishes the minimum permitted
distance on a lot between the front line of a building and the street right-of-
way line.
   COMMISSION. The Howard County Plan Commission.
   COUNTY. Howard County, Indiana
   COUNTY DRAINAGE BOARD. The Howard County Drainage Board.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. The Howard County Highway Engineer.
   COUNTY SURVEYOR. The Howard County Surveyor.
   COVENANT. A written promise or pledge.
   CUL-DE-SAC, COURT or DEAD-END STREET. A short street having one end open to
traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicle turn-around.
   DEBRIS BASIN. A barrier or dam built across a waterway or at other suitable
locations to retain rock, sand, gravel or silt or other material.
   DEVELOPER. Any individual, subdivider, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing
proceedings under these regulations to effect a subdivision of land hereunder
for himself, herself or for another.
   DIRECTOR. The officer or employee of the County Plan Commission who has
authority to enforce this chapter.
   DRAINAGE SWALE. A natural or constructed waterway, usually broad and
shallow, covered with erosion-resistant grasses, used to conduct surface water
from a field, diversion or other site feature.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Any combination of surface and subsurface drainage
components fulfilling the drainage requirements of this chapter.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation or persons for specified purposes.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by the action of wind, water
or gravity.
   GRADING. Any stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling or any combination
thereof, and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
   JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION. The unincorporated territory of Howard
County, Indiana.
   LOT. For purposes of these regulations, a lot is a parcel of land of
sufficient size to meet the minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage and
area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein required.
Such lot shall have frontage on an improved street, or on an approved private
street.
   MAJOR STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PLAN. The part of the Master Plan, now or
hereafter adopted, which sets forth the location, alignment, dimensions,
identification and classification of existing and proposed streets, highways
and other thoroughfares.
   MASTER PLAN. The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the development of
the county, prepared by the Commission and adopted in accordance with I.C. 36-
7-4-500 et seq., as now or may hereafter be in effect.
   MULCHING. The application of plant or other suitable materials on the soil
surface to conserve moisture, hold soil in place and aid in establishing plant
cover.
   OPEN DITCH. A relatively deep drainage channel which may have a continuous
water flow the year round. Open ditches are outlets for both surface,
subsurface or storm sewer drainage system.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization
or any other group that acts as a unit or legal entity.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
   PLAT REVIEW COMMITTEE. A group of persons with technical knowledge of
various county, state, and federal regulations and standards regarding urban
development, appointed by the Commission. The Committee is responsible for
working with developers in reviewing the technical aspects of subdivision plans
and other major development projects. The Committee makes technical findings
and recommendations to the Commission.
   PRIVATE STREET. A right-of-way which has the characteristics of a street, as
defined herein, except that it is not dedicated to the public use. A driveway
which is located on a lot and which serves only the use on that lot is not
considered as a private street.
   REGULATED DRAIN. Any drainage system over which the County Drainage Board
has legal control.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water
or gravity as a product of erosion.
   SEDIMENT BASIN. See DEBRIS BASIN.
   SHALL. The term is always mandatory.
   SOIL. All unconsolidated mineral and organic material of whatever origin
that overlies bedrock which can be readily excavated.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The Howard County Soil and Water
Conservation District.
   SOIL SURVEY. Refers to the Soil Survey of Howard County, Indiana, prepared
by the United States Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, in
cooperation with Purdue University Agricultural Experiment Station, which may
be updated from time to time based on the National Cooperative Soil Survey.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. A system of open ditches, pipes or drainage swales
used to collect and convey storm water runoff.
   STORM SEWERS. A system of pipes, tiles or tubing installed beneath the
ground surface which collects and conveys surface water from more than one
parcel, lot or the discharge from a subsurface drain.
   STREET or ROAD. A right-of-way, other than an alley, dedicated or otherwise
legally established to the public use, usually affording the principal means of
access to abutting property. A street may be designated as a highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, lane, drive or other
appropriate name.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street providing for through movement of large volumes
of traffic. Arterial streets are intended to provide access to abutting
property subject to necessary control of entrances and exits for traffic
movement and where safety conditions warrant.
   STREET (OR ALLEY) IMPROVEMENT. The construction of a street or alley to its
full thickness, commencing at the subgrade according to the specifications
contained in §
152.62. The placing of a new surface over an existing paved or closed surface
street or alley shall not be considered as an improvement but as maintenance.
   STREET PAVEMENT WIDTH. The usable traveled surface of the street. For
streets with curb and gutter, the width is measured on the lip of gutter to lip
of gutter or the face of curb to face of curb, whichever is the greater
distance. For streets without curb or gutter, the width is measured from edge
of pavement to edge of pavement. See
Appendix B,
Figures 1 and
2.
   STREET, PRIMARY FEEDER. A street planned to facilitate the collection of
traffic from local streets, and to provide circulation within neighborhood
areas and convenient ways for traffic to reach principal arterial streets.
   STREET, RESIDENTIAL. A street used primarily for access to abutting
properties, usually residential.
   STREET, SECONDARY FEEDERS. A street with lower traffic volumes fulfilling
the same function as major collectors.
   SUBDIVIDER. See DEVELOPER.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit, part of a unit,
or as contiguous units on the last preceding transfer of property into two or
more parcels, sites or lots for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership.
      (2)   The following divisions of land shall not be considered a
subdivision.
         (a)   The sale or exchange of land between adjoining lot owners, where
such sale or exchange does not create additional building sites;
         (b)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
division and all location of land as streets or other open spaces for common
use by owners, occupants or lease holders; or
         (c)   Easements for the extension and maintenance of public sewer,
water, storm drainage or other public facilities.
   SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE. A system of pipes, tile, conduit or tubing installed
beneath the ground surface used to collect ground water from individual
parcels, lots or building footings.
   SURFACE DRAINAGE. A system by which the storm water runoff is conducted to
an outlet. This would include the proper grading of parking lots, streets,
driveways, yards and the like so that storm water runoff is removed without
ponding and flows to a drainage swale, open ditch or a storm sewer.
   VEGETATIVE PROTECTION. Stabilization of erosive or sediment-producing areas
by covering the soil with:
      (1)   Permanent seeding, producing long- term vegetative cover;
      (2)   Short-term seeding producing temporary vegetative cover; or
      (3)   Sodding, producing areas covered with a turf of perennial sod-
forming grass
   ZONING CODE. The part of the Master Plan, now or hereafter adopted, which
includes an ordinance and zone maps which divides the area under the
jurisdiction of the Commission into districts, with regulations and
requirements and procedures for the establishment of land use controls. (See
Chapter 153.)
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77)
§ 152.02 MAJOR STREETS AND HIGHWAY MAP AND DRAWINGS ADOPTED.
   The Official Major Streets and Highways Plan consists of a map entitled
“Major Street & Highway Plan, Howard County, Indiana” and drawings entitled
“Thoroughfare Standard Cross-Sections” (see
Appendix B,
Figures 3,
4 and
5) which shows recommended design plans for the proposed streets and highways.
This Official Major Streets and Highways Plan is hereby declared to be a part
of this chapter and notations, references, indications and other details shown
therein are as much a part of this chapter as if they were fully described in
the text of this chapter, and is hereby adopted by reference.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77)
§ 152.03 DESIGNATION OF MAJOR STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   The major streets and highways comprising the Official Major Street and
Highways Plan are hereby classified on the basis of width and type, in
accordance with their proposed function, as arterial, primary feeder, secondary
feeder and residential.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77)
§ 152.04 OPENING OR WIDENING OF STREETS.
   Whenever a street designated in the Official Major Streets and Highway Plan
is to be platted as a part of a subdivision, the required right-of-way width
for such street shall be platted as specified in the Official Major Streets and
Highways Plan; provided, that where a street borders a tract of land to be
subdivided, the owner of such land shall be required to plat only one-half of
the right-of-way designated for such street, measured at 90 degrees to the
center line thereof.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77)
§ 152.05 LOCATION OF STREETS.
   (A)   Wherever the location of a street is indicated in the Official Major
Streets and Highways Plan as following an existing road or street, or a section
or half-section or other established property line, the location of the street
shall conform to such location; however; a street lying wholly within a
subdivision, and not designated as following an existing road or established
property line, may be varied in its alignment when such variance promotes the
plan of a neighborhood development unit in accordance with good site planning
principles, and if such alignment provides for the continuity of traffic
movement.
   (B)   In the absence of any street being designated in each section of land
on or approximately on the north-south and east-west section lines of such
sections, it is the intent of the Official Major Streets and Highways Plan and
this chapter that Primary Feeder Streets be established on such section lines.
   (C)   In the absence of any street being designated in each section of land
on or approximately on the north-south and east-west half-section lines of such
sections, it is the intent of the Official Major Streets and Highways Plan and
this chapter that Secondary Feeder Streets be established on such half-section
lines.
   (D)   Wherever the location of a street is indicated in the Official Major
Streets and Highways Plan as following an irregular alignment, or a reversed
alignment, or is not referenced to an established line, it shall follow the
alignment shown in the Official Major Streets and Highways Plan. Such alignment
shall be subject to a detailed survey which may be provided by the Commission
or other public agencies, or by the owners of land to be subdivided if required
by the Commission. The survey for such street shall be subject to the approval
of the Commission prior to the dedication of the street.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77)
§ 152.06 CONSIDERATION BY PUBLIC AGENCIES.
   (A)   The Board shall be guided by and give consideration to the general
policy and pattern of street development set out in the Official Major Streets
and Highways Plan in the authorization, construction, widening, alteration,
relocation or abandonment of the public streets, highways and related
structures.
   (B)   No public way shall be abandoned or vacated until the Commission shall
have first given notice and held public hearing on vacation or abandonment of
such public way. The Commission shall forward its recommendation to the Board.
The Board shall not override the recommendation of the Commission except by
unanimous vote.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77)
§ 152.07 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Any permits authorized by the Board, including but not limited to
improvement location permits, permitting the erection, alteration or relocation
of structures and other improvements within the jurisdiction of the Commission,
shall be issued only if, in addition to satisfying the requirements of other
ordinances, the proposed street right-of-way as set forth by this chapter will
be protected from encroachment. In this instance, the proposed street right-of-
way lines will be considered as the front line of lots and tracts bordering
such street.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77)
§ 152.08 CONTINUING AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION.
   Subsequent to the passage of this chapter, the Commission may determine
lines for new, extended, widened or narrowed thoroughfares in any location of
the area within the jurisdiction of the Commission, and certify to the Board
the amended or additional plan under the same procedure as established for the
certification and approval of the Official Major Streets and Highways Plan.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77)
§ 152.09 VARIANCES.
   Where the subdivider can show that a provision of this chapter would cause
an unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and where, in the opinion of the
Commission, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site,
a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such provision, the
Commission may authorize a variance. Any variance thus authorized is required
to be entered in writing in the minutes of the Commission and the reasoning on
which the departure was justified shall be set forth. Variances shall not be
granted merely because it would be financially advantageous to the applicant or
because he or she would suffer financial loss if it were denied.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77)
SUBDIVISION CONTROL
§ 152.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTROL.
   (A)   No plat or replat of a subdivision of land located within the
jurisdiction of Commission shall be recorded until it shall have been approved
by the Commission, and such approval shall have been entered in writing on the
plat by the President and Secretary of the Commission.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no subdivision of land
shall be created, established or platted within the territorial jurisdiction of
the Commission until there has been compliance with all provisions of this
chapter and all other elements of the Master Plan.
   (C)   Any subdivision of a parcel of land for purposes other than
agricultural use shall be reviewed by the Commission and a determination shall
be made that such division is in accordance with the Master Plan.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.21 PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   In order to make the most of the opportunities related to the
subdivision and to conserve time, effort and expense, the owner should consult
with the Director, the County Surveyor, the technical representative of the
Soil and Water Conservation District, the County Engineer, the Board of Heath
and other public officials prior to the preparation of the preliminary plat of
the subdivision. The Master Plan should be reviewed to determine how the
proposed plan will fit into the Master Plan; requirements of the Official Major
Streets and Highways Plan; school and recreational sites; shopping centers;
community facilities; sanitation; water supply and drainage; and relationship
to other developments, existing and proposed in the vicinity, should be
determined in advance of the preparation of the subdivision. Consultation
should also be held with those familiar with the economic factors affecting the
subdivision. A thorough estimate of the situation will result in sound
decisions with respect to the form, character and extent of the proposed
subdivision.
   (B)   The Commission shall review all proposed subdivisions to determine
whether the subdivision lies in a flood-prone area as defined in
Chapter 151. If the Commission finds the subdivision to be so located, the
petitioner shall forward all pertinent plans and materials to the Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment. The Commission may require
appropriate changes and modifications in order to assure that it is consistent
with the need to minimize flood damages, all public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems are located and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage, adequate drainage is provided so as to
reduce exposure to flood hazards, and that on-site waste disposal systems, if
provided, will be so located as to avoid impairment of them or contamination
from them during the occurrence of the regulatory flood.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77)
Cross-reference:
   Flood damage prevention, see
Chapter 151
§ 152.22 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIRED.
   After the preliminary consideration stage, the subdivider shall submit a
written application requesting for Preliminary Approval of a Subdivision Plat
to the Commission. Such application shall be accompanied by the information,
requirements and plans set forth in §§
152.23 and
152.24, all in accordance with the requirements set forth in this chapter.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.23 PRELIMINARY PLAT PREPARATION.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide a plan for the subdivision which shall
show the manner in which the proposed subdivision is coordinated with the
Master Plan and its provisions, specifically with relation to the requirements
of the Official Major Streets and Highways Plan, and those items reviewed
during the preliminary consideration; provided, however, that no land shall be
subdivided for residential use unless adequate access to the land over improved
streets or thoroughfares exists or will be provided by the subdivider, or if
such land is considered by the Commission to be unsuitable for such use by
reason of flooding or improper drainage, objectionable earth and rock
formation, topography, or any other feature harmful to the health and safety of
possible residents and the community as a whole.
   (B)   The subdivider shall provide the following:
      (1)   Location map. A location map, which may be prepared by indicating
the data by notations on available maps, showing:
         (a)   Subdivision name and location.
         (b)   Any thoroughfares related to the subdivision.
         (c)   Existing elementary and high schools, parks and playgrounds,
shopping centers or stores serving the area proposed to be subdivided, and
other community facilities.
         (d)   Zoning of the site and adjoining property
         (e)   Nearest approved drainage outlet.
         (f)   Title, scale, north point and date.
      (2)   Preliminary plat. A preliminary plat showing:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision.
         (b)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider and the planner,
land planning consultant, professional engineer or registered surveyor who
prepared the plan.
         (c)   Streets and rights-of-way on and adjoining the site of the
proposed subdivision showing the names (which shall not duplicate other names
of streets in the community, except as designated by the Commission) and
including roadway widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of pavement,
curbs, sidewalks, cross-walks and tree planting.
         (d)   Easement locations, widths and purposes.
         (e)   Existing sewers, water lines, culverts and other underground
structures, and power transmission poles and lines, within and adjacent to the
tract.
         (f)   Layout of lots showing dimensions and numbers.
         (g)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public, or community
purposes.
         (h)   Contours at vertical intervals of two feet if the general slope
of the site is less than 10% and at vertical intervals of five feet if the
general slope is greater than 10%.
         (i)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to section, township and range lines or corners.
         (j)   Building lines.
         (k)   Legend and notes.
         (l)   Other features or conditions which would affect the subdivision
favorably or adversely.
         (m)   Scale, north point and date. The preliminary plat of the
subdivision shall be drawn to a scale of 50 feet to 1 inch or 100 feet to 1
inch; provided, however, that if the resulting drawing would be over 36 inches
in shortest dimension, a scale as recommended by the Commission may be used.
         (n)   Plans and specifications for the improvements required in this
chapter.
         (o)   Detailed grading plans shall be submitted simultaneously with
the preliminary plat to illustrate solutions to topography or drainage problems
            1.   These plans shall show topographically and by profile the
elevation of the land prior to any phase of subdividing, and any proposed
changes in elevations and flow of surface water resulting from proposed
subdivision development. Such plans shall be of the same scale and size as the
preliminary plat and shall be prepared in such a manner as will permit the
topographic detail to be used as an overlay to the preliminary plat.
            2.   Upon the face of the subdivision plat, certification is
required by a Registered Professional Engineer or Land Surveyor, and the owner
of the land or his or her duly authorized attorney confirming that to the best
of their knowledge and belief, the drainage of surface waters will not be
significantly changed by the construction of such subdivision or any part
thereof, or that if such surface water drainage will be changed, adequate
provision has been made for such surface waters.
      (3)   Description of protective covenants. A description of the
Protective Covenants or private restriction to be incorporated in the plat of
the subdivision shall be submitted.
      (4)   Soil report. A soils report for the site shall be prepared by
technical personnel of the Soil and Water Conservation District, or by an
engineer registered in the state. This report shall indicate the degree of
limitations of the soils in the proposed subdivision with respect to the
proposed building development, road, construction, drainage, sewage disposal
system, erosion control, and such other information that might assist the
Commission in its review of the preliminary plat.
      (5)   Area Drainage Map. An area drainage map showing the following shall
be submitted:
         (a)   Total drainage area.
         (b)   Size and location of an outlet as defined in §
152.65 to which the water from the proposed subdivision will be taken.
         (c)   Size and location of any regulated drain which will be affected
by the proposed subdivision.
         (d)   Cross-sections of open ditch outlets and invert elevations of
tile outlets shall be shown.
         (e)   Proposed location of all surface and subsurface drainage
systems, as required in §
152.65.
         (f)   Scale and north arrow.
      (6)   Erosion control plan. An erosion control plan which will adequately
control soil erosion and the resulting sedimentation from occurring during and
after the development of a subdivision shall be submitted. This erosion control
plan shall include the following:
         (a)   Plans and specifications of all necessary soil erosion and
sedimentation control measures in accordance with standards and specifications
of the Soil and Water Conservation District.
         (b)   A timing schedule indicating the anticipated starting and
completion dates of the development sequence and the time of exposure of each
area prior to the completion of effective erosion and sediment control
measures.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by a certified check or money
order in the amount of $50 plus $5 for each lot in the proposed subdivision to
cover the cost of checking and verifying the proposed plat, and such amount
shall be deposited in the General Fund of the county.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.24 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Tentative approval. After an application for approval of a preliminary
plat of a subdivision, together with ten copies of all maps and data, has been
filed, the Director shall review the application and give it tentative
approval, or return the application to the subdivider with suggestions for
changes within a period of 30 days from the date of application. No application
will be considered unless it has been filed with the Commission at least 15
days before the date of their regular scheduled monthly meeting. The Director
shall have up to five days after filing of an application for determining the
application is complete and ready to be accepted. Incomplete applications may
not be acted on.
   (B)   Public hearing. After the Director has given tentative approval, he
shall set the date for a public hearing and notify the applicant in writing.
The applicant shall notify by general publication or otherwise all adjacent
property owners and any person or governmental unit having a probable interest
in the plat proposed in the application. The cost of publication of the notice
of hearing shall be met by the applicant.
   (C)   Approval. Following the public hearing and within 30 days after which
the application receives tentative approval, the Commission shall approve the
plat proposed in the application subject to its receipt of an acceptable final
plat, or disapprove the plat, setting forth its reasons in its own records and
providing the applicant with a copy.
   (D)   Approval period. An approval shall be effective for a period of 36
months, unless upon request of the applicant to include all or only a part of
the approved plat, the Commission grants an extension. If the final plat is not
received by the Commission within the period specified, all previous actions by
the Commission with respect to the plat shall be deemed to be null and void.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77; Am. Ord. 2008-BCC-36, passed 11-20-08)
§ 152.25 FINAL PLAT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Following the approval of the preliminary plat, the Commission will
notify the applicant in writing that it is ready to receive the final plat.
   (B)   The final plat shall meet the specifications and requirements as set
forth in §§
152.26 and
152.27, all in accordance with the requirements set forth in this chapter.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.26 FINAL PLAT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The final plat may include all or only part of the preliminary plat
which has received approval.
   (B)   The original drawing of the final plat of the subdivision shall be
drawn to a scale of 50 feet to 1 inch; provided, that the resulting drawing
shall be 18 inches x 24 inches with two inches on the left hand side reserved
for binding. If necessary, in order to meet these dimensions, a scale of 100
feet to 1 inch may be used. Five black or blue line prints shall be submitted
with the original final plat or, in order to conform to modern drafting and
reproduction methods, five black line prints and a reproducible print shall be
submitted.
   (C)   The following basic information shall be shown:
      (1)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and angles which provide a
survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than 1 foot in 10,000
feet.
      (2)   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest established street
corners or official monuments. Reference corners shall be accurately described
on the plat.
      (3)   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract.
      (4)   Accurate metes and bounds description of the boundary.
      (5)   Source of title of the applicant to the land as shown by the last
entry in the books of the County Recorder.
      (6)   Street names.
      (7)   Complete curve notes for all curves included in the plan.
      (8)   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths of
feet, with angles to street, alley and lot lines.
      (9)   Lot numbers and dimensions.
      (10)   Accurate locations of easements for utilities and any limitations
on such semi-public or community use.
      (11)   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved
for public, semi-public or community use.
      (12)   Building lines and dimensions.
      (13)   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot
markers.
      (14)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become
covenants in the deeds for lots.
      (15)   Name of the subdivision.
      (16)   Name and address of the owner and subdivider.
      (17)   North point, scale and date.
      (18)   Certification by a registered land surveyor.
      (19)   Certification of dedication of streets and other public property.
      (20)   Certificate for approval by the Commission.
      (21)   Certificate for approval by the Board.
      (22)   All subdivision plats containing lands identified in
Chapter 151 as flood-prone areas shall have the elevations of the 100-year
flood listed thereon.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.27 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   When the final plat is submitted to the Commission, it shall be
accompanied by notice from the Board stating that there has been filed with and
approved by that body one of the following:
      (1)   A certificate that all improvements and installations except
individual septic tanks and wells for the subdivision required for its approval
have been made or installed in accordance with specifications; or
      (2)   A bond which shall:
         (a)   Run to the Board;
         (b)   Be in an amount determined by the Board to be sufficient to
complete the improvements and installations in compliance with this chapter;
         (c)   Be with surety satisfactory to the Board; and
         (d)   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
   (B)   Upon the completion of the improvements and installations, except
individual septic tanks and wells, required of a subdivider for the approval of
a final plat, and prior to the acceptance thereof for public maintenance by the
Board or, if applicable, to any other governmental unit, the subdivider shall
provide a three year maintenance bond which shall:
      (1)   Run to the Board and, if applicable, to any other governmental unit
having a legal responsibility for the maintenance of such improvements and
Installations.
      (2)   Be in an amount equal to 10% of the cost of such improvements and
installations as estimated by the Board.
      (3)   Provide surety satisfactory to the Board.
      (4)   Warrant the workmanship and all materials used in the construction,
installation and completion of such improvements and installations to be of
good quality and have been constructed and completed in a workmanlike manner in
accordance with the standards, specifications and requirements of this chapter
and the satisfactory plans and specifications thereof.
      (5)   Provide that for a period of three years after such installations
and improvements have been completed or are accepted for public maintenance by
any appropriate governmental unit or agency thereof, the subdivider will at his
or her own expense make all repairs to such improvements and installations, or
the foundations thereof, which may become necessary by reason of improper
workmanship or materials with such maintenance; however, not to include any
damage to such improvements and installations resulting from forces or
circumstances beyond the control of the subdivider or occasioned by the
inadequacy of the standards, specifications or requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Within a reasonable time alter application for approval of the final
plat, the Commission shall approve or disapprove it. If the Commission
approves, it shall affix the Commission's seal upon the plat, together with the
certifying signature of its President and Secretary. if it disapproves, it
shall set forth the reasons for such disapproval in its own records and provide
the applicant with a copy.
   (D)   The final plat, if approved, shall be recorded with the County
Recorder within 12 months from the date of approval by the Commission. If the
final plat is not recorded within the period specified, all previous actions
with respect to the plat shall be deemed to be null and void.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77)
§ 152.28 PLAT CERTIFICATES AND DEED OF DEDICATION.
   The forms set forth in Appendix A of this chapter shall be described upon
the final plat and appropriate signatures affixed thereto.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.40 STANDARDS OF DESIGN GENERALLY.
   (A)   The final plat of the subdivision shall conform to the principles and
standards of design set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   The subdivision plan shall conform to the principles and standards
which are generally exhibited in the Master Plan.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.41 STREETS.
   (A)   The street and alley layout shall provide access to all lots and
parcels of land within the subdivision, and where streets cross other streets,
jogs shall not be created.
   (B)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as to
produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
   (C)   Certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be extended to the
boundary line of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide for normal
circulation of traffic within the vicinity.
   (D)   Wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to a dedicated or
platted portion of a street or alley, the remainder of such street or alley
shall be platted within the proposed subdivision to the prescribed width.
   (E)   Widths of streets and highways shall conform to the width specified in
§
152.62 and the “Thoroughfare Standard Cross-Sections” located at
Appendix B,
Figures 3,
4 and
5.
   (F)   All cul-de-sacs shall terminate in a circular right-of-way with a
minimum diameter of 100 feet and shall not exceed 600 feet in length.
   (G)   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential districts but should be
included in commercial and industrial areas where needed for loading and
unloading or access purposes, and where platted shall be at least 20 feet in
width.
   (H)   The center lines of streets should intersect as nearly at right angles
as possible.
   (I)   At intersections of streets and alleys, property line corners shall be
rounded by arcs of at least 20 feet radii or by the chords of such arcs.
   (J)   At intersections of streets, the property line corners shall be
rounded by arcs with radii of not less than 15 feet or by the chords of such
arcs.
   (K)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two streets is less than 60
degrees, the radius of the arc at the intersection of property lines shall be
increased as deemed advisable by the Commission.
   (L)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
   (M)   Where parkways, limited access highways, arterials or special types of
streets are involved, the Commission may apply special standards to be followed
in their design. These may include provisions for a marginal access street or a
parallel street at a distance acceptable for the appropriate use of the land
between the highway and such street.
   (N)   Unobstructed sight distances measured from a point five feet above the
proposed grade line, to permit horizontal visibility on curved streets and
vertical visibility on all streets, must be established along the center line
of such street as follows:
      (1)   Arterial streets: 500 feet.
      (2)   Feeder streets: 200 feet.
      (3)   Residential streets: 150 feet.
   (O)   Curvature measured along the center line shall have a minimum radius
as follows:
      (1)   Arterial streets: 1,000 feet.
      (2)   Feeder streets: 400 feet.
      (3)   Residential streets: 300 feet.
   (P)   Between reversed curves on arterial streets, there shall be a tangent
of not less than 200 feet, and on feeder and residential streets, such tangent
shall be not less than 100 feet.
   (Q)   Maximum grades for streets shall be as follows:
      (1)   Arterial streets: not greater than 4%.
      (2)   Feeder streets, residential streets and alleys: not greater than
6%.
   (R)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than 0.4%.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.42 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Blocks should not exceed 1,320 feet in length.
   (B)   Blocks shall be of sufficient width to permit two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth except where an interior street parallels a limited access
highway or arterial street or a railroad right-of-way.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.43 LOTS.
   (A)   All lots shall abut on a public or private street.
   (B)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to straight
streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from this rule is
permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be avoided.
   (C)   Double frontage lots should not be platted except that, where desired
along limited access highways or arterial streets, lots may face on an interior
street and back on such thoroughfares. In that event, a planting strip for a
screen and buffer at least 20 feet in width shall be provided along the back of
each lot.
   (D)   Widths and areas of lots which are not served by community water and
sanitary sewer systems shall be determined in accordance with regulations of
the Board of Health. For subdivisions with community water and sanitary sewer
systems, the width and area of lots shall be not less than that provided in the
Zoning Code for single-family dwellings for the district in which the
subdivision is located. In no instance shall the width of the lot at the
building setback line be less than 60 feet and the area of the lot be less than
7,200 square feet.
   (E)   The depth to width ratio of the usable area of a lot shall be a
maximum of 3 to 1.
   (F)   Wherever possible, unit shopping centers, based upon sound development
standards, should be designed in contrast to the platting of lots for
individual commercial use.
   (G)   Corner residential lots shall be wider than normal in order to permit
appropriate setbacks from both streets.
   (H)   Lots shall not be plotted within flood-prone areas as defined in §
152.65.
   (I)   Each lot shall be adequately graded in order to facilitate proper
drainage away from the house.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.44 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Where alleys are not provided, easements for utilities and drainage
facilities shall be provided. Utility easements shall have minimum widths of 12
feet. Drainage easements shall have a minimum width of 16 feet. Where such
utility and drainage easements are located along lot lines, one-half of the
width may be taken from each lot. In the case of lots extending to the boundary
of the lands plotted and not adjoining another plat, the full width of the
easement shall be provided on such peripheral lots.
   (B)   Before determining the location of utility easements, the plan shall
be discussed with the local public utility companies to assure their proper
placing for the installation of such services.
   (C)   Drainage easements shall be provided for the drainage system approved
by the County Drainage Board as set forth in §
152.65.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.45 BUILDING LINES.
   Building lines shall be as provided in the Zoning Code, as adopted in
Chapter 153.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.46 PUBLIC OPEN SPACES.
   Where sites for parks, schools, playgrounds or other public uses are located
within the subdivision area as shown on the Master Plan or where such sites
appear to be desirable, the Commission may request their dedication for such
purposes, or their reservation for a period of one year following the date of
the final approval of the plat. In the event a governmental agency concerned
passes a resolution expressing its intent to acquire the land so reserved, the
reservation period shall be extended for an additional six months.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77)
STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.60 STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS GENERALLY.
   The improvement of the subdivision shall conform to the standards set forth
in this subchapter.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.61 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Monuments and markers shall be placed so that the center of the pipe
or marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be
marked, and shall be set so that the top of the monument or marker is level
with the finished grade.
   (B)   Monuments shall be set:
      (1)   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary of
the subdivision.
      (2)   At the corners of blocks where street right-of-way lines intersect.
   (C)   Markers shall be set:
      (1)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines.
      (2)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear.
      (3)   At all angles in property lines of lots.
      (4)   At all other lot corners not established by a monument.
   (D)   Monuments shall be of stone, pre-cast concrete, or concrete poured in
place with minimum dimensions of 6 inches by 6 inches by 36 inches. They shall
be marked on top with an iron or copper dowel set flush with the top of the
monument or deeply scored on top with a cross. Markers shall consist of iron
pipes or steel bars at least 36 inches long, and not less than -inch in
diameter.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.62 STREETS.
   (A)   Streets (and alleys where provided) shall be completed to grades shown
on plans, profiles and cross-sections provided by the subdivider, prepared by a
licensed surveyor or registered professional engineer, and approved by the
Commission.
   (B)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the dimensions
required by such plans, profiles and cross-sections and the work shall be
performed in the manner prescribed in Indiana State Highway Standard
Specifications (current edition). References in the following divisions refer
to these Standard Specifications.
   (C)   The street pavement shall be of portland cement concrete or a flexible
pavement of a width as shown by the illustration “Thoroughfare Standard Cross-
Sections” in
Appendix B, Figures
3,
4 and
5, and shall be constructed in accordance with design characteristics at least
equal to those given below except as modified by division (D) of this section:
DESIGN CHARACTERISTICS OF STREET AND ALLEY PAVEMENTS
Kind of Pavement Arterial Feeder   Residential Alley
and Thickness    (inches) (inches) (inches)    (inches)
DESIGN CHARACTERISTICS OF STREET AND ALLEY PAVEMENTS
Kind of Pavement                      Arterial Feeder   Residential Alley
and Thickness                         (inches) (inches) (inches)    (inches)
PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE Uniform      7½      6½      6           6
thickness
FLEXIBLE
Surface - Asphaltic Concrete          1½      1½      1           1
Type “B”
Binder - Asphaltic Concrete or        2        2        2           2
Bituminous Coated - Blended Aggregate
Base Compacted Aggregate or           10       6        4           4
Water Bound Macadam
Subbase - Type II                     6        6        4           4
Total Thickness                       19½     15½     11          11
DEEP STRENGTH ASPHALT                 11½     9½      7           7
Material types as set out in Indiana State Highway Commission
Specifications. Feeder street design to be used on local streets serving
industrial or commercial developments.
 
   (D)   Where arterial streets are located within the subdivision as specified
in §§
152.01 et seq., the subdivider shall construct such street pavement in
accordance with the requirements for feeder streets set forth in division (C)
of this section. For the purpose of constructing arterial street pavements
according to the design characteristics set forth in division (C) of this
section, the Board is authorized to use funds available for such purposes to
participate with the subdivider in the cost of such construction; provided,
however, that such participation shall be limited to that cost which is
additional to the cost of constructing the required feeder street improvement.
   (E)   Prior to placing the street and alley surfaces, adequate drainage for
the street shall be provided by the subdivider. Culvert drainage pipe, when
required, shall be of a type approved by the Commission and not less than 12
inches in diameter. Upon the completion of the street and alley improvements,
plans and profiles as built shall be filed with the Commission.
   (F)   The pavement width of residential streets shall depend upon the
density of dwelling units per gross acre included in the subdivision. The
pavement width for residential streets shall be measured from the face of
curbs.
 
Dwelling UnitsPer Gross Acre Pavement Width Residential Street Cross-Section
Less than 2                  24 feet        A
2 to less than 3             28 feet        B
3 or more                    34 feet        C
                                           
 
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.63 SEWERS.
   (A)   As used in this section, the phrase “the subdivider shall provide”
shall be interpreted to mean that the developer shall install the facility
referred to, or whenever a private sewage disposal system or an individual
water supply is to be provided, that such facilities referred to in this
section shall be installed by the developer of the lots in accordance with
these regulation and those of the Board of Health.
   (B)   Depending upon the soil limitations, as determined by the Soil
Conservation Service of the USDA and the regulations of the Board of Health,
the subdivider shall provide for one of the following methods of sanitary
sewage disposal:
      (1)   A complete sanitary sewer system which shall connect with an
existing approved sanitary sewer outlet.
      (2)   A complete sanitary sewer system to convey the sewage to a
treatment plant, to be provided by the subdivider, in accordance with the
minimum requirements of the Board of Health and the Indiana Stream Pollution
Control Board.
      (3)   A private sewage disposal system on individual lots consisting of a
septic tank and tile absorption field or other approved sewage disposal system
meeting the minimum requirements of the Board of Health.
   (C)   The plans for the installation of a sanitary sewer system shall be
provided by the subdivider and approved by the Indiana Stream Pollution Control
Board pursuant to SPC-15 and the County Health Officer. Upon the completion of
the sanitary sewer installation, the plans for such system, as built, shall be
filed with the Commission.
   (D)   In no event will the installation of combined sanitary-storm sewers be
permitted.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.64 WATER.
   (A)   As used in this section, the phrase “the subdivider shall provide”
shall be interpreted to mean that the developer shall install the facility
referred to, or whenever a private sewage disposal system or an individual
water supply is to be provided, that such facilities referred to in this
section shall be installed by the developer of the lots in accordance with
these regulation and those of the Board of Health.
   (B)   The subdivider shall provide for one of the following methods of water
supply.
      (1)   A complete water main supply system which shall be connected to an
existing approved municipal or community water supply.
      (2)   A complete community water supply system to be provided by the
subdivider in accordance with regulations of the County Board of Health and the
State Board of Health.
      (3)   An individual water supply on each lot in the subdivision in
accordance with the minimum requirements for individual well installations of
the Board of Health.
   (C)   The plans for the installation of water main supply system shall be
prepared by the subdivider and approved by State Board of Health and the County
Board of Health. Upon the completion of the water supply installation, the
plans for such system, as built, shall be filed with the Commission.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.65 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   The Commission shall reject any proposed subdivision which has lots
platted with the building area situated in any of the following areas:
      (1)   Flood plains or flood ways, as defined by the Department of Natural
Resources.
      (2)   Areas subject to flooding with 100-year frequency floods, as
determined by the Department of Natural Resources or defined by the soil survey
as being Genesee, Shoals or any other soil series occurring on the first
bottoms of streams. However, in no case shall it be necessary to exceed the
100-year flood elevation.
      (3)   Areas designated by the soil survey as being Carlisle Muck, Linwood
Muck or any other soil series identified as organic soils.
   (B)   Drainage facilities shall be provided as follows;
      (1)   All lots in a subdivision being developed will be provided with
subsurface drainage connected into a working drain, hereinafter called an
outlet, of the following type;
         (a)   Regulated drain;
         (b)   Natural stream;
         (c)   Storm sewers; or
         (d)   Existing open ditch.
      (2)   A storm drainage system shall be designed and constructed by the
subdivider to provide for the proper drainage of the surface water of the
subdivision and the drainage area which drains onto the subdivision. All areas
draining onto the site will be considered as fully developed for purposes of
designing necessary drainage facilities.
      (3)   All storm and subsurface drainage facilities necessary to provide
adequate surface or storm water drainage will be installed by the developer.
      (4)   All storm sewers and subsurface drains will be designed and
installed in accordance with procedures and standards set forth by the County
Drainage Board.
      (5)   Any storm sewer or subsurface drain in working condition that is
cut through or otherwise disturbed will be reconstructed around the
construction area, subject to the approval of the Commission.
      (6)   The subsurface drainage requirement for individual lots may be
waived if, in the opinion of the Commission, based upon the soil survey, the
soil is of a type that does not have a seasonal water table above four feet
from the surface of the undisturbed soil.
      (7)   No portion of any drainage system either surface, storm or
subsurface including roof downspouts shall be permitted to empty into any
sanitary sewer system.
      (8)   Houses will not be constructed in natural drainageways.
      (9)   All storm sewers and subsurface drainage facilities shall be
provided with drainage easements as provided in §
152.44.
   (C)   The plans and specifications herein called for shall include the data
necessary to determine whether or not the proposed installation will be
adequate. The plans shall be submitted to the County Drainage Board for review
and approval prior to final approval of the subdivision.
   (D)   Where proposed structures will penetrate the normal high water table,
basements or crawl spaces shall be provided with peripheral drainage and be
approved by the Director.
   (E)   Maintenance of drain systems.
      (1)   The developer or owner of each proposed subdivision shall dedicate
easements for drainage, not less than 16 feet in width, on the plat of such
subdivision, in which easements the drainage system for such subdivision shall
be installed.
      (2)   The drainage easements, as provided in division (E)(1), shall run
in favor of the County Drainage Board, which Drainage Board shall have
perpetual jurisdiction to repair and maintain the drainage system in each
subdivision as hereinafter provided.
      (3)   In the event that the owner of a lot in any subdivision, approved
and platted after the effective date of this chapter, believes that the
drainage system in such subdivision is not operating properly and is in need of
repair, such owner shall file a written petition with the County Drainage
Board, which petition shall set forth the name of the subdivision, the location
of the requested repair, and a brief description of the problem necessitating
the requested repair.
      (4)   Upon receipt of such petition, the County Drainage Board shall
direct the County Surveyor to make an investigation of the requested repair.
The County Surveyor shall make such investigation and file a written report
therein to the County Drainage Board within ten days from the date upon which
he or she receives the order for investigation. The surveyor's report shall
include the following:
         (a)   An opinion as to whether the drainage system is in need of
repair.
         (b)   An opinion as to the cause of the alleged drainage problem.
         (c)   An opinion as to the best method to correct such problem.
         (d)   The lots in such subdivision that are adversely affected by the
drainage problem in question.
         (e)   An estimate of the cost to make the necessary repairs.
      (5)   Upon the filing of the surveyor's report, the County Drainage Board
shall set a hearing on the petition for repair and the surveyor's report.
Notice by ordinary mail shall be given to the owners of all lots affected as
shown on the surveyor's report, and notice to the public shall be given by one
publication in the Kokomo Tribune not less than five days prior to the hearing.
At the hearing, the County Drainage Board shall make findings on each of the
items contained in the surveyor's report.
      (6)   If the County Drainage Board shall find that the alleged problem
with the drainage system is the sole fault of the owner of the lot where the
problem is located, the Board shall order that such owner make the repairs
necessary to correct such drainage problem within a reasonable time. In the
event that such owner refuses or fails to comply with the order within the time
specified by the County Drainage Board, the County Drainage Board shall have
the right, power and authority to enter upon such real estate to make necessary
repairs to the drainage system. If the County Drainage Board completes the
repairs under the above provision, the cost thereof shall be paid from the
County General Drain Fund, and the owner of the real estate where the repair
was made shall be charged the entire cost thereof. If the owner fails to pay
such sum into the County General Drain Fund within 30 days from the date of
mailing the billings, then the amount of such cost, together with a penalty of
10% of such costs, shall be certified to the County Treasurer by the Secretary
of the County Drainage Board, and the amount so certified shall be added to the
owner's real estate tax statements or duplicates and shall be collected at the
next consecutive time that real estate taxes become payable following such
certification. Such certification shall contain a complete legal description of
the lot and the name of each owner thereof. The Secretary shall also cause a
copy of such certification to be recorded in the County Recorder's office.
      (7)   If the County Drainage Board finds that the problem with the
drainage system was not caused by the fault of any one person or owner, then it
shall order that the necessary work to correct such problem be done, and shall
order that each lot owner affected by such a repair shall pay his or her
proportionate share of the cost thereof. Upon the receipt by the County
Drainage Board of a claim for the cost of such work, the Drainage Board shall
mail a statement of the proportionate share of such cost to each affected lot
owner, and each owner shall pay such amount billed into the County General
Drain Fund within 30 days from date of mailing of the bill. If any such owner
fails to pay such bill within 30 days from the date of the mailing thereof,
then the amount of such unpaid bill, together with a penalty of 10%, shall be
certified to the County Treasurer by the Secretary of the County Drainage
Board, and the amount so certified shall be added to such owner's real estate
tax statement or duplicates and shall be collected at the next consecutive time
that real estate taxes become payable following such certification. Such
certification shall contain a complete legal description of the lot and the
name of each owner thereof. The Secretary shall also cause a copy of such
certification to be recorded in the County Recorder's office.
      (8)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, each plat
submitted for approval shall contain a covenant or other statement referring to
§
152.65(E)(1) through (7), which covenant or statement shall read substantially
as follows: “This subdivision is subject to the provisions of §
152.65(E)(1) through (7), inclusive, of the Howard County Subdivision Control
Ordinance, as amended, which provides for the repair and maintenance of
drainage systems in subdivisions, including the assessment of owners of lots to
pay for the cost of repair and maintenance.”
   (F)   A developer may petition the County Drainage Board to establish a
regulated drain for all of the lots in the proposed subdivision without notice
being issued as provided under I.C. 36-9-27-57 through 36-9-27-63 upon the
condition that, upon information furnished to him or her by the developer, the
County Surveyor issues his or her certificate to the County Drainage Board that
no property owners other than the developer will be affected by the regulated
drain petitioned for.
   (G)   A developer petitioning for a regulated drain under the provisions of
division (F) shall pay all of the costs of such a petition including the
attorney fees for bringing such petition and shall waive notice of hearing on
the petition other than that served upon his or her attorney. Any such petition
for a regulated drain filed under division (F) or this division shall comply in
form and content with the provisions contained in I.C. 36-9-27-54.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77; Am. BCC Ord. 1993-9, passed 3-22-93)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.66 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Because considerable soil erosion can take place during the
subdivision construction, development plans shall contain proposed erosion and
sediment control measures. These measures shall be incorporated into the final
plat and final construction drawings. Erosion and sediment control measures
shall conform to the standards and specifications established by the Soil and
Water Conservation District. The measures shall apply to all features of the
construction site, including street and utility installations as well as to the
protection of individual lots. Measures shall also be instituted to prevent or
control erosion and sedimentation during the various stages of development.
Technical standards for the design and installation of erosion and sediment
control measures are on file at the office of the Soil and Water Conservation
District and other governmental agencies.
   (B)   Practical combinations of the following general principles will
provide effective sediment control when properly planned and applied:
      (1)   The development plan shall be fitted to the topography and soils so
as to create the least erosion potential.
      (2)   Permanent vegetation and construction improvements such as streets,
storm sewers or other features of the development shall be scheduled for
installation to the greatest extent possible before removing the existing
vegetation cover from an area.
      (3)   Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained and
protected.
      (4)   Where inadequate vegetation (ground cover) exists, temporary or
permanent vegetation shall be established.
      (5)   The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one
time during development.
      (6)   When land is exposed during development, the exposure shall be kept
to the shortest practical period of time.
      (7)   Critical areas exposed during construction shall be protected with
temporary vegetation or mulching.
      (8)   Sediment basins (debris basins, desilting basins or silt traps)
shall be installed and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters from
land undergoing development.
      (9)   Provisions shall be made to accommodate effectively the increased
runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development.
    (10)   The permanent final vegetation and structures shall be installed as
soon as practical in the development.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.67 CURB AND GUTTER.
   (A)   All proposed subdivisions shall be provided with curbs and gutters as
required in this chapter.
   (B)   The curb and gutters shall be of the construction type shown in
Appendix B,
Figures 1 and
2., and shall be constructed according to the following specifications:
      (1)   The base for the curb and gutter shall be well-compacted on the
existing base or grade.
      (2)   The minimum specifications shall be as shown for the type of cross-
section in
Appendix B,
Figures 1 and
2.
      (3)   All concrete used in the curb and gutter shall meet the State
Highway Specifications for Class A concrete.
      (4)   Integral or monolithic curb of the same dimensions as shown in
Appendix B,
Figure 1, may be built on concrete pavement; provided, the pavement widths are
maintained as required in this chapter.
      (5)   All machine-laid hot asphaltic concrete curbs shall meet the
Federal Housing Administration Specifications, Third Addition, October 1966,
Specifications Series #3 (SS-3), as revised, and/or the current Indiana State
Highway Specifications, whichever is the more stringent.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.68 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Whenever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions which have been provided with sidewalks, or whenever the proposed
subdivision will average three or more lots per gross acre included in the
subdivision, the Commission shall require sidewalks to be installed so as to
abut at least one lot line of each lot in the subdivision.
   (B)   When sidewalks are required, they shall be constructed of portland
cement concrete at least four inches thick and three feet wide, and placed as
shown by the illustration “Thoroughfare Standard Cross- Sections” in
Appendix B, Figures
3,
4 and
5.
   (C)   All concrete used in sidewalks shall meet the State Highway
Specifications for Class A concrete.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.69 STREET SIGNS.
   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with standard county street
signs at the intersection of all streets.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.70 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notification. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider or
developer to notify the Plan Commission Office and arrange for a pre-
construction conference to take place at least 24 hours in advance of the
commencement of construction. The meeting shall be held at the Plan Commission
Office or other designated location. At this conference an inspection schedule
shall be discussed and set up. The conference shall be made up of
representatives of the subdivider, Plan Commission, County Engineer, County
Surveyor, and the County Soil and Water Conservation District.
   (B)   Inspection required. All improvements shall be subject to inspection
by duly authorized and qualified county inspectors both during the course of
construction and after construction is complete. The inspector shall have
authority over materials of construction, the methods of construction and
workmanship to ensure compliance with working drawings and specifications. The
contractor shall provide for reasonable tests and proof of quality of materials
as requested by the inspector. Upon due cause, the inspector may require that
work will be suspended and due cause shall include weather conditions,
questionable materials of construction, methods of construction, workmanship or
non- adherence to specifications and drawings.
   (C)   Inspector. The inspectors referred to herein shall be duly qualified
inspection officers appointed by the County Plan Commission.
   (D)   Inspection Reports. The inspector shall prepare and submit to the
Board of County Commissioners from time to time a report stating progress of
work and giving his or her findings as to quality and quantity of materials
used and quality of methods and workmanship. He or she shall in particular call
attention to any circumstances that entail departures from working drawings and
specifications such as unforeseen difficulties of drainage, ground water, poor
subsoil, unstable fill material, unconventional or faulty practices of
contractors or other circumstances. Whenever, in his or her opinion, such
departures are likely to cause either a lower ultimate standard of performance
of a higher construction cost than could reasonably be anticipated, he or she
shall immediately notify the Board of County Commissioners. When an improvement
has been completed, he or she shall prepare a summary report.
   (E)   Subdivider responsible. Approval by the inspector or absence of
inspection shall in no way relieve the subdivider or developer of full
responsibility for adherence by his or her contractors to specifications and
working drawings nor for high standards of materials, methods and workmanship.
(BCC Ord. 1977-38, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
APPENDIX A: PLAT CERTIFICATES AND DEED OF DEDICATION
§ 1 COMMISSION CERTIFICATE.
UNDER AUTHORITY PROVIDED BY I.C. 7-4-700 ET SEQ., ENACTED BY THE GENERAL
ASSEMBLY Of THE STATE OF INDIANA, AND ALL ACTS AMENDATORY THERETO, AND AN
ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY THE BOARD Of COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF THE COUNTY OF HOWARD,
INDIANA, THIS PLAT WAS GIVEN APPROVAL AS FOLLOWS:
Approved by the Howard County Plan Commission at a meeting held
                       , 19         .
                              HOWARD COUNTY PLAN COMMISSION
                                                                               
                              President
                                                                               
(SEAL)                           Secretary
§ 2 COUNTY COMMISSIONERS CERTIFICATE.
   When all or any part of a subdivision is located in the unincorporated area
of the county, the following certificate shall be shown on the final plat:
UNDER AUTHORITY PROVIDED BY I.C. 7-4-700 ET SEQ., AND BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY,
STATE Of INDIANA, THIS PLAT WAS GIVEN APPROVAL BY THE BOARD Of COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS OF HOWARD COUNTY, INDIANA, AT A MEETING HELD ON THE
               DAY OF                         , 19          .
                              BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                                                               
ATTEST:
                                                                         
                                                                                                  
COUNTY AUDITOR
(SEAL)
§ 3 SURVEYORS CERTIFICATE.
I,                                  , HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A REGISTERED
LAND SURVEYOR, LICENSED IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF INDIANA,
THAT THIS PLAT CORRECTLY REPRESENTS A SURVEY COMPLETED BY ME ON
                                          , THAT ALL THE MONUMENTS SHOWN
THEREON ACTUALLY EXIST, AND THAT THE LOCATION, SIZE, TYPE AND MATERIAL OF SAID
MONUMENTS ARE ACCURATELY SHOWN.
                                                                               
(SEAL)                           Signature
§ 4 DEED Of DEDICATION.
   Each final plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall carry a deed
of dedication in substantially the following form:
We, the undersigned                                                 , owners of
the real estate shown and described herein, do hereby certify that we have laid
off, platted and subdivided, and do hereby lay off, plat and subdivide, said
real estate in accordance within the plat.
This subdivision shall be known and designated as
                                                           .
An addition to                                            . All streets and
alleys shown and not heretofore dedicated are hereby dedicated to the public.
We also certify this property is well drained and any future drainage problems
will be the responsibility of the property owners.
Front and side yard building lines are hereby established as shown on this
plat, between which lines and the property lines of the street there shall be
erected or maintained no building or structure.
There are strips of ground               feet in width as shown on this plat
marked “Easement” reserved for the use of utilities for the installation of
water and sewer mains, surface drainage, poles, ducts, lines and wires, subject
at all times to the proper authorities and to the easement herein reserved. No
permanent or other structured are to be erected or maintained upon said strips
of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision shall take their titles subject
to the rights of the utilities.
(Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions,
would be inserted here upon the subdivider's initiative or upon the
recommendation of the Commission. Important provisions are those specifying the
use to be made of the property and, in the case of residential use, the minimum
habitable floor area.)
The foregoing covenants (or restrictions) are to run with the land and shall be
binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until January 1,
19           (a 25 year period is suggested) at which time said covenants (or
restrictions) shall automatically extended for successive periods of 10 years
unless changed by vote of a majority of the then owners of the building sites
covered by these covenants, or restrictions, in whole or in part. Invalidation
of any one of the foregoing covenants or restrictions, by judgment or court
order, shall in no way affect any of the other covenants or restrictions, which
shall remain in full force and effect.
The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right to
cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof
erected, or maintained in violation hereof, is hereby dedicated to the public,
and reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and
to their heirs and assigns.
Witness our Hands and Seals this                day of
                         , 19          .
State of
Indiana      )                                                                
               ) SS            Signature
County of
Howard   )                                                                
                              Signature
Before me the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared                                                    ,
                                              , and each instrument as his or
her voluntary act and deed, for the purposes therein expressed.
Witness my hand and notarial seal this                day of
                        , 19          .
                                                                               
                              Signature
APPENDIX B: FIGURES AND ILLUSTRATIONS
FIGURE 1: TYPICAL CURB AND CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER DETAILS.
   ROLLED CURB AND GUTTER
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/561c505dd4adab7f8c35cb041c80eff03baee263/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1087.jpg]
   COMBINED CURB AND GUTTER
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/561c505dd4adab7f8c35cb041c80eff03baee263/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1089.jpg]
FIGURE 2: TYPICAL HOT ASPHALTIC CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER DETAILS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/561c505dd4adab7f8c35cb041c80eff03baee263/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1101.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/561c505dd4adab7f8c35cb041c80eff03baee263/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1103.jpg]
FIGURE 3: THOROUGHFARE STANDARD CROSS-SECTIONS; ARTERIALS.
   LIMITED ACCESS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/561c505dd4adab7f8c35cb041c80eff03baee263/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1095.jpg]
   PRIMARY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/561c505dd4adab7f8c35cb041c80eff03baee263/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1097.jpg]
   PARKWAY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/561c505dd4adab7f8c35cb041c80eff03baee263/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1099.jpg]
NOTE: The cross-sections in this figure have been split to indicate the maximum
and minimum development standards. Each left-hand section indicates that
maximum development in urban areas. The right-hand section indicates the
minimum development in rural areas. For the residential streets, use the cross-
section designated by §
152.62(F). Refer to the subdivision ordinance for specific minimum improvement
standards and requirements.
FIGURE 4: THOROUGHFARE STANDARD CROSS-SECTIONS; FEEDERS.
   PRIMARY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/561c505dd4adab7f8c35cb041c80eff03baee263/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1091.jpg]
   SECONDARY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/561c505dd4adab7f8c35cb041c80eff03baee263/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1093.jpg]
NOTE: The cross-sections in this figure have been split to indicate the maximum
and minimum development standards. Each left-hand section indicates that
maximum development in urban areas. The right-hand section indicates the
minimum development in rural areas. For the residential streets, use the cross-
section designated by §
152.62(F). Refer to the subdivision ordinance for specific minimum improvement
standards and requirements.
FIGURE 5: THOROUGHFARE STANDARD CROSS-SECTIONS; RESIDENTIAL.
   A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/561c505dd4adab7f8c35cb041c80eff03baee263/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1105.jpg]
   B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/561c505dd4adab7f8c35cb041c80eff03baee263/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1107.jpg]
   C
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/561c505dd4adab7f8c35cb041c80eff03baee263/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1109.jpg]
NOTE: The cross-sections in this figure have been split to indicate the maximum
and minimum development standards. Each left-hand section indicates that
maximum development in urban areas. The right-hand section indicates the
minimum development in rural areas. For the residential streets, use the cross-
section designated by §
152.62(F). Refer to the subdivision ordinance for specific minimum improvement
standards and requirements.
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Zoning Code adopted by reference
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Map amendments, see
T.S.O. V
§ 153.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Code, being Ordinance 1981-9, passed July 13, 1981, as may be
amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this code as if fully set forth herein.
(`83 Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 1981-9, passed 7-13-81; Am. BCC Ord. 2002-37, passed
9-3-02; Am. Ord. 2004-BCC-11, passed 4-5-05; Am. Ord. 2009- BCC-19, passed 5-
28-09; Am. Ord. 2011-BCCO-09, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 2011-BCCO-21, passed 8-
25-11; Am. Ord. 2012-BCCO-35, passed 12-27-12)
CHAPTER 154: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT IN NEW DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT
Section
   
154.01   General provisions
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Performance criteria for stormwater management
   
154.04   Stormwater management plan design criteria
   
154.05   Stormwater management permit procedures and requirements
   
154.06   Stormwater management plan review and approval
   
154.07   Financial guarantee and as-built documents
   
154.08   Site inspections and maintenance provisions
   
154.09   Enforcement
   
154.10   Appeals
   
154.11   Re-vesting the Drainage Board with authority and responsibility for
administering certain requirements of this chapter
 
   
154.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Fees
Cross-reference:
   Illicit discharges, see
Chapter 53
   Storm water erosion and sediment control, see
Chapter 156
§ 154.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Findings of fact. It is hereby determined that land development
projects increase storm water runoff rates and volumes, flooding, stream
channel erosion, and sediment transport and deposition; and contributes to
increased quantities of water-borne pollutants, and storm water runoff, soil
erosion and non-point source pollution can be controlled and minimized through
the regulation of storm water runoff from development sites.
   (B)   Purpose. This chapter is intended to set standards to regulate the
quantity and quality of storm water runoff when land use changes from open or
agricultural to a use that may result in increased imperviousness. These
minimum requirements are established to protect and safeguard the general
health, safety, and welfare of the public residing in watersheds within this
jurisdiction. It shall be the policy of the county and the County Department of
Storm Water Management that these minimum requirements shall be required for
any new development, redevelopment and new construction located within the
county area not exempt under this chapter. This chapter seeks to meet this
purpose through the following objectives:
      (1)   Minimize increases in storm water runoff from any development in
order to reduce flooding, siltation, increases in stream temperature, and
stream bank erosion and maintain the integrity of stream channels;
      (2)   Minimize increases in non-point source pollution caused by storm
water runoff from development which would otherwise degrade local water
quality;
      (3)   Reduce storm water runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and non-
point source pollution, wherever possible, through storm water management
controls, and to ensure that these management controls are properly maintained
and pose no threat to public safety.
   (C)   Applicability. The performance standards herein must be met at all new
development and redevelopment areas that disturb one or more acres of land or
disturbances of less than one acre of land that are part of a larger common
plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately disturb
one or more acres of land within the county area. The following activities may
be exempt from these storm water performance criteria:
      (1)   Developments that do not disturb more than one acre of land,
provided they are not part of a larger common development plan; or
      (2)   Activities granted a waiver by the Board under the specifications
in §
154.04; or
      (3)   Any logging and agricultural activity; or
      (4)   Additions or modifications to existing single family structures; or
      (5)   Repairs to any storm water treatment practice deemed necessary by
the County Board; or
      (6)   Activities implemented under the jurisdiction of the County
Surveyor.
   (D)   History and application. This chapter repeals and replaces Ordinance
No. 2006-BCC-36, which was amended by Ordinance No. 2007-BCCO-46. Ordinance
2006-BCC-36, as amended, repealed and replaced Ordinance No. 2001-BCC-38 (Storm
water Erosion and Control) and 2004-BCC-38 (Storm water Management in New
Development and Redevelopment).
(Ord. 2010-BCC-13, passed 4-19-10)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTERING AUTHORITY. The County Department of Storm Water Management
(“Department”), by and through the MS4 operator, Administrator, or other
authorized designee, is hereby designated to implement and administer this
chapter.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Executive Director of the Department, appointed by the
Board.
   APPLICANT. A property owner or agent of a property owner who has filed an
application for a storm water management permit.
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL. A calendar year of precipitation, excluding snow,
which is considered typical.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). Any structural or non-structural control
measure utilized to improve the quality and, as appropriate, reduce the
quantity of storm water runoff. The term includes schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practice, treatment requirements, operation and maintenance
procedures, use of containment facilities, land use planning, policy
techniques, and other management practices.
   BOARD. The Board of Directors of the Department, as defined in I.C. 8-1.5-5-
2 and exercising the powers granted under I.C. 8-1.5-5-6.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having walls and a
roof, designed for the shelter of any person, animal, or property, and
occupying more than 100 square feet of area.
   BUSINESS DAY. A day the office of the Department is routinely and
customarily open for business.
   CEASE AND DESIST ORDER. A court-issued order to halt land-disturbing
construction activity that is being conducted without the required permit.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks
that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   CONNECTED IMPERVIOUSNESS. An impervious surface that is directly connected
to a separate storm sewer or water of the state via an impervious flow path.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land-disturbing activities associated with the
construction of infrastructure or structures. The term CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY
does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor landscaping
projects.
   CONSTRUCTION PROJECT SITE. The physical location(s) or legal boundaries
within which a construction activity or a series of construction activities is
planned to be or is being accomplished.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
construction related egress from a project site planned and installed in
accordance with specification from an approved reference manual, and maintained
throughout the period of land-disturbing activities for the purpose of
capturing and detaining sediment carried by tires, tracks, or other surface
contact components of vehicles, earth-moving equipment, or material and
personnel transport conveyances.
   COUNTY AREA. All territory of Howard County not located within the City of
Kokomo, the Town of Russiaville, or the Town of Greentown.
   DEDICATION. The deliberate appropriation of property by its owner for
general public use.
   DEPARTMENT. The Howard County Department of Stormwater Management created
September 15, 2008 by Ordinance No. 2008 BCCO-29.
   DESIGN STORM. A hypothetical discrete rainstorm characterized by a specific
duration, temporal distribution, rainfall intensity, return frequency, and
total depth of rainfall.
   DETENTION. The temporary storage of storm runoff in a storm water management
practice with the goals of controlling peak discharge rates and providing
gravity settling of pollutants.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A detention basin or alternative structure designed for
the purpose of temporary storage of stream flow or surface runoff and gradual
release of stored water at controlled rates.
   DEVELOPER. A project site owner or person financially responsible for
construction activity, or an owner of property who sells, leases, or offers for
sale or lease, any lot(s) in a subdivision or larger common plan of development
or sale.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. A legal right granted by a landowner to a grantee
allowing the use of private land for storm water management purposes.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any channel that conveys surface storm water runoff.
   EFFECTIVE INFILTRATION AREA. The area of the infiltration system that is
used to infiltrate runoff and does not include the area used for site access,
berms or pretreatment.
   EROSION. The process by which the land's surface is worn away by the action
of wind, water, ice or gravity.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A set of plans prepared by or under the
direction of a licensed professional engineer, licensed land surveyor, or
Certified Professional in Storm Water Quality (CPSWQ), indicating the specific
measures and sequencing to be used to control sediment and erosion on a
development site during and after construction.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL SYSTEM. Appropriate control measures combined
to prevent or minimize the wearing away of soil, sediment, and rock fragments
by water, wind, or ice, and to intercept detached or suspended particles to
prevent their discharge from or within a project site.
   FEE IN LIEU. A payment of money in place of meeting all or part of the storm
water performance standards required by this chapter.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. The establishment of permanent vegetative cover or the
application of a permanent, non-erosive material to areas where all
land-disturbing activities have been completed and no additional land
disturbing activities are planned under the current plan.
   FINANCIAL GUARANTEE. A performance bond, maintenance bond, surety bond,
irrevocable letter of credit, or similar guarantees submitted to the Board by
the responsible party to assure that requirements of this chapter are carried
out in compliance with the storm water management plan.
   GRADING. Excavation or fill of material, including the resulting conditions
thereof.
   HOTSPOT. An area where land use or activities generate highly contaminated
runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in
storm water.
   HYDROLOGIC SOIL GROUP (HSG). A Natural Resource Conservation Service
classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential
groups. The groups range from A soils, with high permeability and little runoff
production, to D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more
runoff.
   IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. An area that releases as runoff all or a large portion
of the precipitation that falls on it, except for frozen soil. Rooftops,
sidewalks, driveways, parking lots and streets are examples of areas that
typically are impervious.
   INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel or land in a multi-parcel
development.
   INDUSTRIAL STORMWATER PERMIT. A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System permit issued to a commercial industry or group of industries which
regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial storm water
discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
   INFILL AREA. An undeveloped area of land located within existing
development.
   INFILTRATION. The entry of precipitation or runoff into or through the soil.
   INFILTRATION SYSTEM. A device or practice such as a basin, trench, rain
garden or swale designed specifically to encourage infiltration, but does not
include natural infiltration in pervious surfaces such as lawns, redirecting of
rooftop downspouts onto lawns or minimal infiltration from practices, such as
swales or road side channels designed for conveyance and pollutant removal
only.
   JURISDICTIONAL WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface
water or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a
prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
   LAND-DISTURBING CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land
surface, including removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil,
excavating, filling, transporting, and grading.
   LANDOWNER. The legal or beneficial owner of land, including those holding
the right to purchase or lease the land, or any other person holding
proprietary rights in the land.
   MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT. A legally recorded document that acts as a property
deed restriction, and which provides for long-term maintenance of storm water
management practices.
   MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured accumulation of precipitation equal to or greater than one-half inch
of rainfall.
   MEP or MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. A level of implementing best management
practices which takes into account the best available technology, cost
effectiveness and other competing issues such as human safety and welfare,
endangered and threatened resources, historic properties and geographic
features.
   MS4 or MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM. A system of storm water
conveyances either owned or operated or regulated by a governmental agency that
IDEM has designated as responsible to eliminate or minimize pollutant loadings
of the storm water entering waters of the state.
   MS4 AREA. The area of Howard County permitted under an NPDES Permit
regulated by 327 I.A.C. 15-13. The MS4 AREA within the county includes the
sections designated and from time to time updated by the County Stormwater
District, excluding incorporated limits of cities or towns. A map which shows
the MS4 AREA shall be kept in the MS4 Operator's office for public review.
   MS4 OPERATOR. The person locally responsible for development,
implementation, or enforcement of the Storm Water Quality Management Plan
(SWQMP) for the county as regulated under 327 I.A.C. 15-13, or authorized
representative thereof.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT. Development resulting from the conversion of previously
undeveloped land or agricultural land uses.
   NON-POINT SOURCE POLLUTION. Pollution from any source other than from any
discernible, confined, and discrete conveyances, and shall include, but not be
limited to, pollutants from agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction,
subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
   NOTICE OF PLAN APPROVAL (NPA). A notification from the MS4 Operator to the
project site owner that the construction plan for a project site has been
reviewed and approved by the MS4 Operator. The project site owner must insert
the NPA with the Notice of Intent sent to the Director of IDEM at least 48
hours prior to initiating land disturbing activities at the construction
project site.
   NPDES. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, a program
administered by IDEM to reduce or eliminate the pollutant loadings into public
waters.
   OFF-SITE FACILITY. A storm water management measure located outside the
subject property boundary described in the permit application for land
development activity.
   ON-SITE FACILITY. A storm water management measure located within the
subject property boundary described in the permit application for land
development activity.
   PEAK DISCHARGE. The maximum rate of flow from a point of storm water
discharge during or immediately following a storm event, usually in reference
to a specific return period or ‘design storm’.
   PERCENT FINES. The percentage of a given sample of soil, which passes
through a # 200 sieve. Note to Users: Percent fines can be determined using the
American Society for Testing and Materials, Volume 04.02, “Test Method C117-95
Standard Test Method for Materials Finer than 75-_ m (No. 200) Sieve in
Material Aggregates by Washing.” Copies can be obtained by contacting the
American Society for Testing and Materials, 100 Barr Harbor Drive,
Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959, or phone 610-832-9585, or on line at: “http://
www.astm.org”.
   PERIMETER CONTROL. A barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a site by
filtering sediment-laden runoff or diverting it to a sediment trap or basin.
   PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform minimum of 70%
across the disturbed areas, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that ensures the resistance of the underlying soil to erosion,
sliding, or other movement.
   PERVIOUS SURFACE. An area that releases as runoff a small portion of the
precipitation that falls on it. Lawns, gardens, parks, forests or other similar
vegetated areas are examples of surfaces that typically are pervious.
   PHASING OF CONSTRUCTION. Sequential development of smaller portions of a
large project site, stabilizing each portion before initiating land disturbing
activities on the next portion, to minimize exposure of land to erosion.
   POST-CONSTRUCTION SITE. A site following the completion of land-disturbing
construction activity and final site stabilization.
   PRE-DEVELOPMENT CONDITION. The extent and distribution of land cover types
present before the initiation of land-disturbing construction activity,
assuming that all land uses prior to development activity are managed in an
environmentally sound manner.
   PROTECTIVE AREA. An area of land that commences at the delineated boundary
of lakes, streams, rivers, or wetlands, and that is the greatest of the
following widths, as measured horizontally from the boundary to the closest
impervious surface. However, in this definition, PROTECTIVE AREA does not
include any area of land adjacent to any stream enclosed within a pipe or
culvert, such that runoff cannot enter the enclosure at this location. Six
categories of protective area have been identified:
      (1)   For outstanding resource waters and exceptional resource waters,
and for wetlands in areas of special natural resource interest, 75 feet.
      (2)   For perennial and intermittent streams identified on a United
States geological survey 7.5 minute series topographic map, or a county soil
survey map, whichever is more current, 50 feet.
      (3)   For lakes, 50 feet.
      (4)   For highly susceptible wetlands, 50 feet. HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE
WETLANDS include the following types: fens, sedge meadows, bogs, low prairies,
conifer swamps, shrub swamps, other forested wetlands, fresh wet meadows,
shallow marshes, deep marshes and seasonally flooded basins. This division does
not apply to wetlands that have been completely filled in accordance with all
applicable state and federal regulations. The protective area for wetlands that
have been partially filled in accordance with all applicable state and federal
regulations shall be measured from the wetland boundary delineation after fill
has been placed.
      (5)   For less susceptible wetlands, 10% of the average wetland width,
but no less than ten feet nor more than 30 feet. LESS SUSCEPTIBLE WETLANDS
include degraded wetlands dominated by invasive species such as reed canary
grass.
      (6)   For concentrated flow channels with drainage areas greater than 130
acres, 10 feet.
   RECHARGE. The replenishment of underground water reserves.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Any construction, alteration, or improvement where structures
and/or impervious surfaces are removed and/or replaced.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. The person who is responsible for any violation of this
chapter
   RUNOFF. An accumulation of storm water flow that is moving across the
surface of the earth as sheet flow or concentrated flow in natural surface
watercourses, drains or waterways.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material, both organic and mineral, that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water,
gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Measures that prevent eroded sediment from leaving the
site.
   SEDIMENTATION. The settling and accumulation of unconsolidated sediment
carried by storm water runoff.
   SITE. A parcel of land or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading
work is performed as a single unified operation.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the municipality for the
construction or alteration of ground improvements and structures for the
control of erosion, runoff and grading.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first land- disturbing activity associated with a
development, including land preparation such as clearing, grading, and filling;
installation of streets and walkways; excavation for basements, footings,
piers, or foundations; erection of temporary forms; and installation of
accessory buildings such as garages.
   STOP WORK ORDER. An order issued by the MS4 Operator, Administrator, or
designee, which requires that all construction activity on the site be stopped.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT. The use of structural or non-structural practices
that are designed to reduce storm water runoff pollutant loads, discharge
volumes, peak flow discharge rates and detrimental changes in stream
temperature that affect water quality and habitat.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive plan designed to reduce the
discharge of pollutants from storm water after the site has undergone final
stabilization following completion of the construction activity.
   STORM WATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice or combination of practices to
control or minimize pollutants associated with storm water runoff.
   STORM WATER RETROFIT. A storm water management practice designed for an
existing development site that previously had either no storm water management
practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the storm water management
requirements of the site.
   TEMPORARY STABILIZATION. The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding, or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch, or other non-erosive materials applied at a uniform minimum
density of 70% across the disturbed areas of a project site.
   TOP OF THE CHANNEL. An edge, or point on the landscape, landward from the
ordinary high-water mark of a surface water of the state, where the slope of
the land begins to be less than 12% continually for at least 50 feet. If the
slope of the land is 12% or less continually for the initial 50 feet, landward
from the ordinary high-water mark, the top of the channel is the ordinary high-
water mark.
   TR-55. The United States Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources
Conservation Service (previously Soil Conservation Service), Urban Hydrology
for Small Watersheds, Second Edition, Technical Release 55, June 1986.
   TRACKING. The movement and re-depositing of dirt, mud, aggregate, sediment,
or other storm water pollutants from a project site by the actions of wheels,
tires, skids, tracks, or other surface contact components of cars, trucks,
heavy equipment, or material and personnel transport conveyances.
   TYPE II DISTRIBUTION. A rainfall-type curve as established in the United
States Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, Technical Paper
149, published 1973.
   WATERCOURSE. Any body of water, including, but not limited to lakes, ponds,
rivers, streams, and bodies of water delineated within the county.
   WATER QUALITY VOLUME (WQV). The storage needed to capture and treat the
“first flush” of runoff. The WATER QUALITY VOLUME is determined as the runoff
resulting from the first one inch of rainfall upon the site. This volume would
treat runoff of up to 75% of the storms annually because the total storm depth
of those storms is less than one inch, according to information found in the
City of Indianapolis Drainage Design Standards and Specifications Manual.
   WATERWAY. A channel that directs surface runoff to a watercourse or to the
public storm drainage system.
(Ord. 2010-BCC-13, passed 4-19-10)
§ 154.03 PERFORMANCE CRITERIA FOR STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   Prior to design, applicants are required to consult with the Department to
determine if they are subject to additional storm water design requirements.
Unless judged by the Department to be exempt or granted a waiver, the following
performance criteria shall be addressed for storm water management at all
sites: All site designs shall establish storm water management practices to
control the peak flow rates of storm water discharge associated with specified
design storms and reduce the generation of storm water. These practices should
seek to utilize pervious areas for storm water treatment and to infiltrate
storm water runoff from driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots, and
landscaped areas to the maximum extent practical to provide treatment for both
water quality and quantity. Natural topography and land cover features such as
natural swales, natural depressions, native soil infiltrating capacity, and
natural groundwater recharge areas shall be preserved and used, to the extent
possible, to meet the requirements of this section. Such requirements are as
follows:
   (A)   Allowable storm water release rate (Q100 post to 0.3cfs per acre -
critical duration storm). The developer shall submit detailed computations of
runoff after development, redevelopment or new construction, which demonstrates
sufficient storm water storage to ensure that the 100-year return period storm
of critical duration does not exceed a release rate of 0.3 cubic feet per
second per acre of development. The critical duration storm is that storm
duration which requires the greatest storm water storage.
   (B)   Storm water quality requirements (treatment of the WQV upon
development completion). The water quality volume is the storage needed to
capture and treat the runoff from the first one inch of rainfall. In numerical
terms, it is equivalent to an inch of rainfall multiplied by the volumetric
runoff coefficient (RV) and the site area.
      The following equation is used to calculate WQV (in acre-feet):   WQV=
(P) (RV) (A)
   where:
      WQV   = water quality volume (acre-feet)
      P      = one inch of rainfall
      RV   = 0.05+ 0.009 (I) where I is the percent impervious cover
      A      = area in acres
   (C)   Impact drainage areas; special requirements in protective areas.
      (1)   The Board is authorized, but is not required, to classify certain
geographical areas as impact drainage areas and to enact and promulgate
regulations, which are generally applied. In determining impact drainage areas,
the Board shall consider such factors as topography, soil type, capacity of
existing regulated drains, and distance from adequate drainage facilities. In
addition to specific impact drainage areas classified by the Board, the
following areas are hereby designated as impact drainage areas, unless good
reason for not including them is presented and approved by the Board:
         (a)   A floodway or floodway fringe or floodplain boundary as
designated by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
         (b)   A flood boundary area or floodway as designated by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency National Flood Insurance Program.
         (c)   Land within 75 feet of each bank of any open channel regulated
drain.
         (d)   Land within 75 feet of the centerline of any regulated drain
tile.
      (2)   Impervious surfaces shall be kept out of the protective area to the
maximum extent practicable.
      (3)   Where land disturbing construction activity occurs within a
protective area, and where no impervious surface is present, adequate sod or
self- sustaining vegetative cover of 70% or greater shall be established and
maintained. The adequate sod or self- sustaining vegetative cover shall be
sufficient to provide for bank stability, maintenance of fish habitat and
filtering of pollutants from upslope overland flow areas under sheet flow
conditions. Non- vegetative materials, such as rock riprap, may be employed on
the bank as necessary to prevent erosion, such as on steep slopes or where high
velocity flows occur.
         Note to users. It is recommended that seeding of non-aggressive
vegetative cover be used in the protective areas. Vegetation that is flood and
drought tolerant and can provide long-term bank stability because of an
extensive root system is preferable.
      (4)   Best management practices such as filter strips, swales, or wet
detention basins, that are designed to control pollutants from non-point
sources, may be located in the protective area.
      (5)   This division (C) does not apply to:
         (a)   Redevelopment sites;
         (b)   In-fill development less than five acres;
         (c)   Structures that cross or access surface waters such as boat
landings, bridges and culverts.
      (6)   Storm water discharges to critical areas with sensitive resources
(i.e. navigable waters, receiving waters with approved TMDL limits, recharge
areas, water supply reservoirs) may be subject to additional performance
criteria, or may need to utilize or restrict certain storm water management
practices.
   (D)   Fueling and vehicle maintenance areas. Special requirements for new
retail gasoline outlets, new municipal, state, federal, institutional or
commercial refueling areas, or refueling areas that replace their existing tank
systems. (Excludes individual or agricultural users.) Fueling and vehicle
maintenance areas shall, to the maximum extent practicable, have BMPs designed,
installed and maintained to reduce petroleum within runoff, such that the
runoff that enters waters of the state contains no visible petroleum sheen.
      Note to users. A combination of the following BMPs may be used:
         (a)   Oil and grease separators;
         (b)   Canopies;
         (c)   Petroleum spill cleanup materials; or
         (d)   Any other structural or non- structural method of preventing or
treating petroleum in runoff.
   (E)   Alternative requirements. The Administrative Authority may establish
storm water management requirements more stringent than those set forth in this
section if the MS4 Operator determines that an added level of protection is
needed to protect sensitive resources.
(Ord. 2010-BCC-13, passed 4-19-10) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.04 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. All development or redevelopment disturbing at
least one acre must include provisions to preserve or minimize impacts to
predevelopment site hydrology and topography to the maximum extent practicable
through runoff pollution prevention techniques. In addition to runoff pollution
prevention measures, storm water treatment BMPs shall be incorporated into Plan
Design as needed to meet the performance criteria in §
154.03.
   (B)   Runoff pollution prevention.  
      (1)   Storm water management begins with thoughtful design. Site planning
that integrates comprehensive storm water management from the outset is the
most effective way to reduce and prevent pollution and flooding. Good site
planning can also reduce the size and cost of structural solutions; when BMP
storm water structures are proposed only at the final stages of design and
construction, the result is often unnecessarily large and costly facilities.
Planning ahead can prevent the need for large structures.
      (2)   Site planning practices. With careful site planning, developers and
municipalities can reduce the amount of impervious area created by pavement and
roofs and thus reduce the volume of runoff and associated pollutants requiring
control. Practices that could be considered:
         (a)   Select site designs that preserve or minimize impacts to
predevelopment site hydrology and topography;
         (b)   Protect environmentally sensitive areas;
         (c)   Practice conservation development;
         (d)   Use cluster development;
         (e)   Create open space;
         (f)   Maximize the flow path from inflow points to outflow points;
         (g)   Provide underdrain systems, where applicable;
         (h)   Reduce hydraulic connectivity of impervious surfaces;
         (i)   Practice rooftop greening;
         (j)   Relax frontage and setback requirements;
         (k)   Modify sidewalk standards;
         (l)   Modify driveway standards;
         (m)   Use alternative cul-de-sac designs;
         (n)   Use alternative parking lot surfaces.
   (C)   Stormwater treatment BMPs.
      (1)   Types of treatment BMPs. A variety of BMPs are effective in (1)
filtering storm water, (2) reducing the speed at which it leaves a site, and
(3) reducing the volume of runoff. These three actions are critical to reducing
non-point-source water pollution and protecting downstream water bodies. Some
types of storm water treatment BMPs are:
         (a)   Retention systems:
         (b)   Detention systems;
         (c)   Infiltration systems;
         (d)   Filtration systems;
         (e)   Constructed wetlands;
         (f)   Alternative outlet designs.
      (2)   Location and regional treatment options.
         (a)   All storm water storage facilities shall be constructed within a
dedicated storm water storage easement which meets the following standards:
            1.   The boundary of the maximum water surface elevation of any
storm water storage facility resulting from a post-development 100-year return
period storm shall define the minimum dedicated storm water storage easement.
Such storm water storage easement shall be bounded by not less than a 25-foot
horizontal width combined utility/drainage easement to separate the storm water
storage facility from any building or structure. A variance for locating any
utility, building or structure within the said boundary or any building or
structure within the said separation area may be granted for good cause as
determined by the Administering Authority, such as allowances for underground
storm water storage or for installation of community amenities.
            2.   The maximum water surface elevation of any storm water storage
facility resulting from a post-development 100-year return period storm shall
be at least two feet lower than the lowest ground floor or lowest unprotected
basement opening of any building located on any property which uses the storm
water storage facility as a drainage outlet.
            3.   Storm water storage facilities that rely on man-made berms of
any kind to store storm water shall be provided with an automatic non-
mechanical emergency bypass drainage device (overflow weir, and the like)
capable of passing the flow resulting from a post-development 100-year return
period storm without causing failure of the man-made berms or ponding greater
than two feet above the maximum water surface elevation resulting from a post-
development 100-year return period storm.
            4.   Only the dedicated storm water storage easements may be used
for storm water storage facilities. Any portion of a residential lot, combined
utility/drainage easements, utility easements, and traffic rights-of-way do not
qualify for use as storm water storage facilities.
         (b)   BMPs may be located on-site or off-site as part of a regional
storm water device, practice or system.
         (c)   The Administering Authority may approve off-site management
measures provided that all of the following conditions are met:
            1.   The Administering Authority determines that the post-
construction runoff is covered by a storm water management system plan that is
approved by the local public agency and that contains management requirements
consistent with the purpose and intent of this chapter.
            2.   The off-site facility meets all of the following conditions:
               a.   The facility is in place.
               b.   The facility is designed and adequately sized to provide a
level of storm water control equal to or greater than that which would be
afforded by on-site practices meeting the performance standards of this
chapter.
               c.   The facility has a legally obligated entity responsible for
its long-term operation and maintenance.
         (d)   Where a regional treatment option is utilized such that the
Stormwater Board may exempt the applicant from all or part of the minimum on-
site storm water management requirements, the applicant shall be required to
pay a fee in an amount determined in negotiation with the Stormwater Board. In
determining the fee for post-construction runoff, the Stormwater Board shall
consider an equitable distribution of the cost for land, engineering design,
construction and maintenance of the regional treatment option.
(Ord. 2010-BCC-13, passed 4-19-10) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No responsible party may commence a land-disturbing construction
activity within the county area without first receiving prior approval of a
site development permit.
      (2)   No developer shall be granted a site development permit without the
approval of a storm water management permit application package by the
Administering Authority for land-disturbing activity within the county area
(individual building lots less than one acre: see division (A)(3) below.)
      (3)   The developer of an Individual building lot containing less than
one acre, but which is part of a multi-lot construction project within the
county area shall be required to complete a Declaration of Responsibility for
Erosion and Sediment Control for a Small Residential Lot prior to receipt of a
site development permit. This declaration assigns responsibility for
conformance to the storm water management plan as required in 327 I.A.C. 15-5-
7.5 to the individual building lot developer.
      (4)   No site development permit is required for the following
activities:
         (a)   Any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the
protection of life, property, or natural resources.
         (b)   Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a
permitted main or accessory use.
   (B)   Permit application package requirements.
      (1)   Written permit application. The appropriate application may be
obtained through the County Surveyor's Office/Department Office.
      (2)   Construction plans. The following elements shall be included within
the Construction Plan:
         (a)   Contact information. The name, address, and telephone number for
the following or their designees: landowner; developer; project engineer for
practice design and certification; and other agents, as applicable.
         (b)   Legal description. A proper legal description of the property
proposed to be developed, referenced to the U.S. Public Land Survey system or
to block and lot numbers within a recorded land subdivision plat.
         (c)   Location and vicinity map.
         (d)   Topographic base map; predeveloped condition. A topographic base
map not exceeding 1 inch = 200 feet scale of the site which extends a minimum
of 200 feet beyond the limits of the proposed development and indicates
existing surface water drainage, including streams, ponds, culverts, ditches,
and wetlands; predominant soil types and hydrologic soil groups, current land
use, including all existing structures; existing cover type and condition,
topographic contours of the site at intervals not to exceed one foot, flow path
and direction for all storm water conveyance sections, watershed boundaries
used in hydrology determinations to show compliance with the performance
standards, locations of utilities, roads, and easements; and significant
natural and man-made features not otherwise shown.
         (e)   Soils information. If a storm water management control measure
depends on the hydrologic properties of soils (e.g., infiltration basins), then
a soils report shall be submitted. The soils report shall be based on on-site
boring logs or soil pit profiles. The number and location of required soil
borings or soil pits shall be determined based on what is needed to determine
the suitability and distribution of soil types present at the location of the
control measure.
         (f)   Post-developed site conditions. A map not exceeding 1 inch = 200
feet scale of the site which extends a minimum of 200 feet beyond the limits of
the proposed development and shows the following: post-construction pervious
areas including vegetative cover type and condition, impervious surfaces
including all buildings, structures, and pavement, post-construction
topographic contours of the site at intervals not to exceed one foot, post-
construction drainage network, dimensions of drainage easements, locations of
maintenance easements specified in the maintenance agreement, flow path and
direction for all storm water management conveyance and treatment practices,
including on-site and off-site tributary drainage areas, watershed boundaries
used in hydrology determinations to show compliance with the performance
standards, locations of utilities and roads, and any changes to lakes, streams,
wetlands, channels, ditches and other watercourses on and immediately adjacent
to the site.
      (3)   Technical information report.
         (a)   Location factors. Explanation of the provisions to preserve and
use natural topography and land cover features to minimize changes in peak flow
runoff rates and volumes to surface waters and wetlands. Also, an explanation
of any restriction on storm water management measures in the development area
imposed by wellhead protection plans and ordinances.
         (b)   Design calculations. Design calculations are required as part of
the storm water permit application package and shall, at a minimum,
specifically include:
            1.   Estimation of storm water runoff. Runoff rates during the
required storm durations; C-values or SCS runoff curve numbers; and computed
times of concentration.
               a.   Drainage area calculations;
               b.   Weighted curve number or runoff coefficient computations;
               c.   Time of concentration computation indicating overland flow
time, shallow concentrated flow time, and flow time in the swale, gutter, pipe
or channel.
            2.   Inlet grate and gutter flow computations;
            3.   Closed conduit and open channel design computations:
               a.   Size of pipe or channel cross-section;
               b.   Pipe or channel inverts slope in percent;
               c.   Material and roughness coefficient;
               d.   Flowing velocities in feet per second;
               e.   Design capacity in cubic feet per second.
            4.   Storm drain flow and hydraulic grade line (HGL) computations;
            5.   Detention/retention summary information.
      (4)   Erosion and Sediment Control Plan and details. The Erosion and
Sediment Control Plan submitted shall include all documents and information
required within 327 I.A.C. 15-5.
      (5)   BMP Calculations and Schedules. Pertinent calculations illustrating
the water quality volumes, and the like, along with the installation schedule
and maintenance requirements shall be submitted for each BMP selected.
      (6)   Operation and maintenance manual for BMPs. An operations and
maintenance (O&M) manual for BMPs (when required) shall be submitted for the
final plan approval and permit process and will become a compliance guideline
for the BMP once development is complete. The O&M manual will include the
following:
         (a)   BMP owner name, address, business phone number, home phone
number, email address, cellular phone number, pager number;
         (b)   Site drawings (8-1/2 inches by 11 inches), showing both plan and
cross-section views, showing the BMP and applicable features, including
dimensions, easements, outlet works, forebays, signage, and the like;
         (c)   Guidance on owner-required periodic inspections and
identification of inspection certification requirement to the Administering
Authority;
         (d)   Requirement of owner to perform maintenance specified by
Administering Authority inspection, if any;
         (e)   Guidance on routine maintenance, including mowing, litter
removal, woody growth removal, signage, and the like;
         (f)   Guidance on remedial maintenance, such as inlet replacement,
outlet works maintenance, and the like;
         (g)   Guidance on sediment removal, both narrative and graphical,
describing when sediment removal should occur in order to ensure that the BMP
remains effective as a water quality and/or quantity control device;
         (h)   A statement that the Administering Authority's representatives
have the right to enter the property to inspect the BMP;
         (i)   A tabular schedule showing inspection and maintenance
requirements; and
         (j)   Identification of the property/BMP owner as the party
responsible for maintenance, including cost.
   (C)   Application review fees. A filing fee in accordance with the attached
‘Appendix A’ shall be submitted with the completed permit application package.
   (D)   Application procedures.
      (1)   Applications for site development permits must be filed with the
Department on any regular business day.
      (2)   Permit applications shall include: One digital copy of all plans in
a PDF format and one copy of the construction plan, erosion and sediment
control plan, and details containing all required elements, along with any
required review fees.
      (3)   The Administrative Authority shall determine if the application
package is complete within four business days of receipt of items noted in
division (D)(2) of this section. If application package is determined
incomplete, the review period indicated in §
154.06(A) shall not commence.
   (E)   Permit conditions. All permits issued under this chapter shall be
subject to the following conditions, and holders of permits issued under this
chapter shall be deemed to have accepted these conditions. The MS4 Operator or
Administrator may suspend or revoke a permit for violation of a permit
condition, following written notification of the responsible party. An action
by the Administering Authority to suspend or revoke this permit may be appealed
in accordance with §
154.10.
      (1)   Compliance with this permit does not relieve the responsible party
of the responsibility to comply with other applicable federal, state, and local
laws and regulations;
      (2)   The responsible party shall design and install all runoff pollution
prevention and/or storm water treatment BMPs in accordance with the approved
storm water management plan and this permit.
      (3)   The responsible party shall notify the MS4 Operator or
Administrator at least two business days before commencing any work in
conjunction with the storm water management plan.
      (4)   The responsible party shall notify the Administering Authority of
any significant modifications it intends to make to an approved storm water
management plan. The Administering Authority may require that the proposed
modifications be submitted to it for approval prior to incorporation into the
storm water management plan and execution by the responsible party.
      (5)   The responsible party shall maintain all storm water management
practices in accordance with the storm water management plan until the
practices either become the responsibility of the county, or are transferred to
subsequent private owners as specified in the approved maintenance agreement.
      (6)   The responsible party authorizes the Administrative Authority to
perform any work or operations necessary to bring storm water management
measures into conformance with the approved storm water management plan, and
consents to a special assessment or charge against the property or to charging
such costs against the financial guarantee posted under §
154.07.
   (F)   Permit duration
      (1)   Initial term. The permit shall be valid for the shorter of five
years from the date of issuance, or until:
         (a)   The permit is revoked through enforcement action;
         (b)   The permit is transferred; or
         (c)   The permit is terminated as stated in division (F)(2) of this
section.
      (2)   Permit termination. Upon completion of all construction activities
associated with the site development permit and prior to any use of the
constructed site/facilities, the applicant shall submit a Notice of Termination
(NOT) letter to the MS4 Operator. Termination of permit will be issued by the
MS4 Operator only if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   All land-disturbing activities, including construction on all
building lots, have been completed and the entire site has been stabilized.
         (b)   All public and common improvements, including infrastructure,
have been completed and permanently stabilized and have been transferred to the
appropriate local entity.
         (c)   The applicant may submit an NOT letter to obtain early release
from compliance with this rule if the following conditions are met:
            1.   The remaining, undeveloped acreage does not exceed five acres,
with contiguous areas not lo exceed one acre.
            2.   A map of the project site, clearly identifying all remaining
undeveloped lots, is attached to the NOT letter. The map must be accompanied by
a list of names and addresses of individual lot owners or individual lot
operators of all undeveloped lots.
            3.   The remaining acreage does not pose a significant threat to
the integrity of the infrastructure, adjacent properties, or water quality.
            4.   All permanent storm water quality measures have been
implemented and are operational.
      (3)   Permit renewal.
         (a)   The project owner may file a Request for Permit Renewal with the
Administering Authority if construction of the permitted site will exceed the
initial permit term of five years and is not yet eligible for permit
termination. Such request shall be filed at least 30 days prior to the
expiration of the initial permit term. Such request shall include the following
information:
            1.   Construction plans as defined in division (B)(2) of this
section that indicate which portions of the initially permitted construction
plans remains under development, including ownership information for each
individual parcel remaining undeveloped; and
            2.   An updated schedule indicating anticipated timing for
installation of BMPs, final stabilization and completion of development.
         (b)   Two types of permit renewal are available:
            1.   Type I. If all public and common improvements, including
infrastructure, have been completed but other requirements for permit
termination have not yet been met, a Type I permit renewal may be issued. A
Type I renewal shall not require changes or additions to public and/or common
improvements, including infrastructure, that have been approved and completed
in compliance with the original permit.
            2.   Type II. If all public and common improvements, including
infrastructure, have NOT been completed, and other requirements for permit
termination have not yet been met, a Type II permit renewal may be issued. A
Type II renewal may require changes or additions to proposed public and/or
common improvements, including infrastructure, that were approved in the
original permit, but are not yet completed, if requirements or regulations
current at time of permit renewal are, in the discretion of the Stormwater
Board and/or MS4 Operator, different than those previously approved.
(Ord. 2010-BCC-13, passed 4-19-10) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Review period.
      (1)   Within 28 days of the receipt of a complete permit application,
including all documents as required by this chapter, the Department shall
inform the applicant whether the application, plan and maintenance agreement
are approved or disapproved.
      (2)   If the project site owner does not receive notification within 28
days after the completed permit application is received by the Administering
Authority, stating that the plan is disapproved, the project site owner may
submit the Notice of Intent (NOI) letter information to IDEM in accordance with
327 I.A.C. 15-5-6(a) and §
154.07(B).
      (3)   If notification of a disapproved plan is received after the review
period outlined above and following commencement of construction activities,
the plans must be modified to meet the requirements of this chapter and
resubmitted within 14 days of receipt of the notification of disapproved plans.
      (4)   The initiation of construction activity following notification by
the Administering Authority that the plan does not meet the requirements of
this chapter is a violation and subject to enforcement action.
   (B)   Review actions available.
      (1)   Approve. The permit application is found to be completely
consistent with the requirement within this chapter; therefore, the
Administering
Authority shall issue a Notice of Plan Approval (NPA);
      (2)   Approve with conditions. The permit application is generally
consistent with the requirements within this chapter, but specific minor
modification are required to meet all of the applicable requirements.
Therefore, the Administering Authority shall issue the permit subject to these
written conditions along with a Conditional Notice of Plan Approval (CNPA); or
      (3)   Disapprove. The permit application does not meet the requirements
of this chapter and requires modifications that would result in significant
changes to the construction plan, or erosion and sediment control plan.
Therefore, the Administering Authority shall disapprove the application
indicating the reason(s) and procedure for submitting a revised application
and/or submission.
   (C)   Notification to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
The developer must include the NPA or CNPA as verification of plan approval
with the Notice of Intent (NOI) and proof of advertisement sent to the Director
of IDEM in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 15-5-6(a) at least 48 hours prior to
land-disturbing activities.
(Ord. 2010-BCC-13, passed 4-19-10)
§ 154.07 FINANCIAL GUARANTEE AND AS- BUILT DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Performance bonds or irrevocable letter of credit for storm water
treatment BMPs. If not required by other local agencies or regulations, the
Administering Authority may, at its discretion, require the submittal of a
performance bond or letter of credit prior to issuance of a permit in order to
ensure that the storm water practices listed below in division (A)(1) and (2)
of this section are installed by the permit holder as required by the approved
storm water management plan. The performance security shall contain forfeiture
provisions for failure to complete such work as specified in the storm water
management plan. The amount of the installation performance security shall be
the total estimated construction cost plus 25% of the storm water management
practices approved under the permit, including:
      (1)   Total installed cost for storm drain pipe, culvert, manhole, and
box inlet installation; and
      (2)   Total cost for site filling and grading, including construction of
open drainage swales and detention/retention facilities.
   (B)   Maintenance bonds. If a financial guarantee is required under division
(A) of this section, then prior to the release of the storm water facility
performance surety, a maintenance surety will be required. The maintenance
surety will be in an amount not to exceed 20% of the cost of construction and
cover a period of three years from the date of acceptance by the Administering
Authority.
   (C)   As-built documents required.
      (1)   As part of the final acceptance process, as-built documents, being
plans and calculations of the as-built conditions, of the storm water
facilities, must be submitted to the Administering Authority, as set forth
herein, for the following types of developments:
         (a)   All platted subdivisions;
         (b)   Industrial and commercial sites.
      (2)   As-built drawings shall be prepared and certified by either a land
surveyor or a professional engineer licensed in the State of Indiana and
provide the following information:
         (a)   Building pad elevations;
         (b)   Structure inverts, pipe inverts, top- of-casting elevation and
the flow line of rear and/or side yard swales at 50-foot intervals or at lot
lines;
         (c)   Horizontal alignment of storm drain pipes, culverts, streets,
and storm drain structures, to a minimum accuracy of +/- two feet;
         (d)   The horizontal location and/or bank cross-sections for all
detention/retention facilities or other information sufficient to verify that
the constructed detention/retention facility provides the required minimum
runoff storage volume; and
         (e)   A tag reference to the operations and maintenance manual for
each BMP will be included.
      (3)   As-built plans will be submitted as both digital and paper copy.
The digital submittal will be in a format compatible with the county's
Geographical Information System (GIS) database. If notice of noncompliance is
not given within 30 calendar days from the date of submission of as-built
documents, the documents shall be construed as approved.
   (D)   Release of sureties. Notice of scheduled date for completion of
construction shall be provided to the Administering Authority at least 72 hours
prior to its planned completion. The contractor or owner will schedule the
final inspection with the Administering Authority's observer. Upon final
approval and acceptance, the performance bond or letter of credit will be
released at the subsequent meeting of the Board.
(Ord. 2010-BCC-13, passed 4-19-10) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.08 SITE INSPECTIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Notice of construction commencement. The applicant must notify the
Administering Authority 48 hours in advance before the commencement of
construction. It shall be a condition of every site development permit that the
Administering Authority has the right to enter the construction project site
periodically to inspect for compliance with the site development permit and
this chapter.
   (B)   Inspections during construction.
      (1)   By permitted project owner.
         (a)   The permittee shall maintain a copy of the approved stormwater
management plan on site. When required, the permittee shall designate a
responsible person for “self-monitoring” and provide all contact information
for such individual to the Administering Authority. Self-monitoring shall be
conducted within 24 hours of a measurable rain event, or at minimum once per
week. All inspections shall be documented and written reports prepared that
contain the following information:
            1.   The date and location of the inspection;
            2.   Whether construction is in compliance with the approved storm
water management plan;
            3.   Any remedial action needed to maintain compliance with the
approved storm water management plan;
            4.   Schedule and designated party for proposed remedial actions.
         (b)   Written reports shall be kept on- site and be made available to
the Administering Authority within 48 hours of request for review.
      (2)   By Administering Authority.
         (a)   Regular inspections of the storm water management system
construction shall be conducted by the staff of the Administering Authority.
All inspections shall be documented and written reports prepared that contain
the following information:
            1.   The date, location and name of inspector;
            2.   Whether construction is in compliance with the approved storm
water management plan;
            3.   Variations from the approved construction specifications;
            4.   Any violations that exist.
         (b)   Inspectors shall notify the on-site personnel or the developer
in writing when violations are being observed, describing items to address and
actions to be taken.
   (C)   Post-construction.
      (1)   Maintenance agreement required. A maintenance agreement shall be
required for storm water management practices and shall be an agreement between
the Department and the responsible party to provide for maintenance of storm
water practices beyond the duration period of this permit. The maintenance
agreement shall be filed with the County Recorder as a property deed
restriction so that it is binding upon all subsequent owners of the land served
by the storm water management practices.
      (2)   Maintenance covenants. The maintenance agreement shall contain the
following information and provisions:
         (a)   Identification of the storm water facilities and designation of
the drainage area served by the facilities.
         (b)   A schedule for regular maintenance of each aspect of the storm
water management system consistent with the storm water management plan
required under §
154.05 and the requirement that the responsible party(s), organization, or
city, county, or town shall maintain the practices in accordance with the
schedule.
         (c)   Identification of the responsible party(s), organization or
city, county, or town responsible for long term maintenance of the storm water
management practices identified in the storm water management plan required
under §
154.05.
         (d)   Authorization for the Administrative Authority to access the
property to conduct inspections of storm water management practices as
necessary to ascertain that the practices are being maintained and operated in
accordance with the agreement. The party designated as responsible for long-
term maintenance of the storm water management practices shall be notified by
the Administrative Authority of maintenance problems which require correction.
The specified corrective actions shall be undertaken within a reasonable time
frame as set by the Administering Authority.
         (e)   Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a storm
water management facility shall make records of the installation and of all
maintenance and repairs, and shall retain the records for at least five years.
These records shall be made available to the Administrative Authority during
inspection of the facility and at other reasonable times upon request.
         (f)   At minimum, annual inspection of the storm water management
facility shall be the responsibility of the party designated in this section.
Record of the inspection and certification by a qualified individual that the
storm water management system has been adequately maintained shall be submitted
to the Administering Authority.
         (g)   Authorization of the Administering Authority to perform the
corrected actions identified in the inspection report if the responsible party
does not make the required corrections in the specified time period. The
Administering Authority shall enter the amount due on the tax rolls and collect
the money as a special charge against the property.
         (h)   The Board, in lieu of a maintenance covenant, may accept
dedication of any existing or future storm water management facility for
maintenance, provided such facility meets all the requirements of this chapter
and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area, by easement or
otherwise, for inspection and regular maintenance.
(Ord. 2010-BCC-13, passed 4-19-10) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. Any land-disturbing construction activity or storm water
runoff initiated after the effective date of this chapter by any person, firm,
association, or corporation subject to provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed a violation unless conducted in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter. Both the owner of the property upon which a violation is committed,
and the person actually committing the violation, if different from the owner,
may jointly or severally be a “responsible person” subject to the enforcement
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Notice of violation. When the MS4 Operator, Administrator, or designee
determines that an activity is not being carried out in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter, he or she shall issue by certified mail a written
notice of violation to the responsible person, including the owner of the
property if applicable. The notice of violation shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner of the property;
      (2)   The address when available or a description of the building,
structure or land upon which the violation is occurring;
      (3)   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
      (4)   A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the
development activity into compliance with this chapter and a time schedule for
the completion of such remedial action;
      (5)   A notice that all construction activities must halt in accordance
with division (D) of this section;
      (6)   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed by the Board against the responsible person;
      (7)   A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to
the Board by the responsible person by filing a written notice of appeal within
15 days of service of notice of violation.
   (C)   Remediation. Upon receipt of written notification from the MS4
Operator, Administrator, or designee under division (B) of this section, the
responsible person shall correct work that does not comply with the storm water
management plan or other provisions of this permit. The responsible person
shall make corrections as necessary to meet the specifications and schedule set
forth by the MS4 Operator, Administrator, or designee in the notice.
   (D)   Stop work orders. Persons receiving a notice of violation will be
required to halt all construction activities. This stop work order will be in
effect until the MS4 Operator, Administrator, or designee confirms that the
development activity is in compliance and the violation has been satisfactorily
addressed. Failure to address a notice of violation in a timely manner can
result in civil or monetary penalties in accordance with the enforcement
measures authorized in this chapter.
   (E)   Emergency stop work orders. If the MS4 Operator, Administrator, or
designee determines that a violation of this chapter constitutes an immediate
and material threat to water quality and/or health and safety, he or she may
issue an emergency stop work order to the responsible person by oral, phone,
FAX, e-mail or similar communication. Persons receiving such emergency notice
are required to halt all construction until the violation is corrected. If
necessary, the MS4 Operator, Administrator, or designee shall immediately
follow-up an emergency order by issuing a Notice of Violation under division
(B) above.
   (F)   Miscellaneous enforcement provisions. The Department and the MS4
Operator, Administrator, or designee shall administer, implement and enforce
the provision of this chapter. For this purpose, the MS4 Operator,
Administrator and his agents shall have the right to enter upon and inspect
real estate and facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as
necessary during reasonable times to determine compliance or noncompliance with
this chapter. The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any
other remedies available under any federal, state or local laws or regulations.
   (G)   Transfer of permit. Prior to termination of the permit, if all or part
of the construction site transfers from one MS4 area to another through
annexation or other means, the site development permit, bond, and enforcement
authority shall transfer through a Notice of Transfer between the two MS4
entities. This shall not indemnify the permit holder from any pending
enforcement action.
(Ord. 2010-BCC-13, passed 4-19-10)
§ 154.10 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal Authority. The Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged that there is error in any order, decision or determination made by the
MS4 Operator, Administrator or designee in administering this chapter. The
Board shall also use the rules, procedures, duties, and powers authorized by
statute in hearing and deciding appeals. Upon appeal, the Board may authorize
variances from the provisions of this chapter that are not contrary to the
public interest, and where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement
of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship.
   (B)   Who may appeal. Appeals to the Board may be taken by any aggrieved
person or by an officer, department, or board of a corporation affected by any
decision of the MS4 Operator, Administrator or designee.
(Ord. 2010-BCC-13, passed 4-19-10)
§ 154.11 RE-VESTING THE DRAINAGE BOARD WITH AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR
ADMINISTERING CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Purpose and scope. This section is intended to adopt certain
stormwater requirements for effective erosion and sediment control associated
with stormwater runoff from construction activities. This section shall apply
in geographic scope to all territory in Howard County not located within the
City of Kokomo, the Town of Russiaville and the Town of Greentown (“County
Area”). Provided, however, based upon the Drainage Board's statutory authority
under I.C. 36-9-27-15, this section shall apply to the entire county (including
the City of Kokomo, the Town of Russiaville and the Town of Greentown) with
respect to any proposed new connection of a private, mutual or municipal drain
to a county regulated drain.
   (B)   Policy statement. It shall be the policy and requirement of Howard
County and the Howard County Drainage Board that the storage and controlled
release of stormwater runoff shall be required for any new development,
redevelopment and new construction located within the County Area and not
exempt under division (D) below if this section. No improvement location permit
shall be issued by the Howard County Plan Commission for the construction or
extension of any proposed or existing building in the County Area until the
drainage plans and calculations required under division (C) below have been
approved by resolution of the Drainage Board.
   (C)   Standards and allowable release rates. The developer shall submit to
the Howard County Surveyor, acting on behalf of the Drainage Board, plans and
calculations in the form and content set out in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance
2019-BCCO-27 and incorporated herein. Such plans and calculations shall
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Drainage Board compliance with the
Stormwater Requirements set forth on said Exhibit A. The Surveyor shall refer
the plans and calculations to the Howard County Stormwater District for review
and validation. In the event the Stormwater District, in its sole discretion,
chooses to outsource such review and validation to a professional engineer, the
professional fees incurred shall be paid by the Stormwater District.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply:
      (1)   Any lot intended for a single family or duplex dwelling which has
Plan Commission approval prior to the effective date of Ordinance 2019-BCCO-27.
      (2)   All one-lot subdivisions must be submitted to the Drainage Board
for approval; however, those intended for a single family or duplex dwelling
may be exempted from submitting drainage calculations upon determination by the
Surveyor that the proposed use would not significantly affect runoff.
      (3)   Any lot of record intended for a single family dwelling that is
currently exempt from the Subdivision Control Ordinance; provided, any change
of use shall require evaluation by the Drainage Board under Ordinance 2019-
BCCO-27.
(Ord. 2019-BCCO-27, passed 9-16-19)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event the MS4 Operator, Administrator, or designee is unable to
obtain compliance through the procedures prescribed under §
154.09(B), (C) and/or (D), the MS4 Operator, Administrator or designee shall,
after determining in his sole discretion which course of action will best
result in a correction of the violation:
      (1)   File the notice of violation with the Board, which shall conduct a
hearing, with notice to the responsible person, within 30 days of such filing.
If the Stormwater Board finds by a preponderance of the evidence that a
violation of this chapter has occurred, it may impose fines upon the
responsible person in an amount not to exceed $7,500, all in accordance with
I.C. 36-1-6-9(d), and/or issue orders to correct violations. In the event the
responsible person does not pay any fine imposed by the Board or correct the
violation as ordered by the Board, the Board may commence a court action to
enforce any fine or to obtain compliance with any order under I.C. 34-28-5-1
(b); or
      (2)   Commence a court action under I.C. 34-28-5-1(b) to enforce this
chapter. Such action may be for injunctive relief restraining the responsible
person from activities causing a violation or compelling such person to perform
abatement or remediation of the violation. In addition, or in the alternative,
the court, in its discretion, may impose fines not exceeding $7,500.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, a separate violation shall be deemed
to have occurred for each day during which a particular violation occurs or
continues to occur.
   (B)   Any appeal under §
154.10(A) by a responsible person of an order of fine issued by the Board must
be filed with the court not more than 60 days after the day on which the Board
order is entered, all in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-9(e) and (f).
   (C)   The Board may from time to time adopt and publish a schedule of fines
to be imposed for violations of this chapter. Any such schedule shall serve as
a guideline to the Board, from which the Board may deviate if, in the Board's
sole discretion, the facts require.
(Ord. 2010-BCC-13, passed 4-19-10)
APPENDIX A: FEES
           Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
RESIDENTIAL                    
                             Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
RESIDENTIAL                                      
Single Family Dwelling        $325               $575
Multi-Family Dwelling         $550 per building  $1,000 per building
Demolition                    $150               $300
Additions                     $150               $300
Declaration of Responsibility $50                $50
SUBDIVISION                                      
2-4 Lots                      $450               $800
5 Lots or more                $300 + $50/lot     $550 + $100/lot
Planned Unit Development      $300 + $50/lot     $550 + $100/lot
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL                            
Principal                     $950 + $50/acre    $1,500 + 100/acre
UTILITY                                          
Per Acre Disturbed            $150               $300
POND                                             
Per Acre Disturbed            $150               $300
RETURNED CHECK FEE            $30                $30
Any land-disturbing activity requiring its own NOI (Notice of Intent) will be
subject to the above fees.
Please make check or money orders payable to the Howard County Stormwater
District.
If a check is returned due to insufficient funds, the plan will NOT be
reviewed.
Fees are non-refundable.
 
(Ord. 2010-BCC-13, passed 4-19-10)
CHAPTER 155: EXCAVATION REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01    Definitions
   
155.02    Regulation excavations in or upon county property
   
155.03    Regulation of drainage discharge onto county property
   
155.04    Application and permit process
 
   
155.99    Enforcement and penalties
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in this chapter:
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Howard County Board of Commissioners.
   CONVEYANCE BLOCKAGE. Any private conveyance of water, including a pipe,
culvert or open swale, which is hindered or prevented from properly carrying
its design flow because of a blockage, damage, restriction or deterioration.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. The Howard County Highway Engineer.
   COUNTY PROPERTY. Any road, right-of-way, easement-or legal open/tile drains
in which Howard County owns or possesses an interest or has the legal right to
manage and control, whether by grant or by law.
   DRAINAGE BOARD. The Howard County Drainage Board.
   DRAINAGE DISCHARGE. Any draining of water or other liquid from a
watercourse, creek, river, stream, ditch, swale, tile, drain, sewer, basement
drain, roof drain, sump pump, geothermal, septic field drain, swimming pool, or
similar private drain.
   EXCAVATION. The act of tunneling, trenching, digging, removing, boring,
excavating, drilling, or undermining of soil, fill material, asphalt, concrete
or other material.
   EXCAVATION CONTRACTOR. Any person who contracts or agrees with another to
excavate in or upon county property for compensation.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, firm, corporation, partnership, excavation
contractor, or governmental entities other than Howard County. PERSON shall
also include public and municipally owned utilities, subject to certain
conditional rights to use public rights-of-way granted such utilities under
I.C. 8-20-1-28 and I.C. 8-1-2-101.
   PLOW. The mechanical process of closed cutting or slicing the soil, without
excavation, for the purpose of installing an underground cable, wire, line,
pipe or tile.
   ROAD. The driving surface on Howard County rights-of-way, such as asphalt,
concrete or gravel.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The land under the driving surface and beyond the edges of the
driving surface that the public has a right to use and the Board of
Commissioners has the right to manage and control.
   SURVEYOR. The duly elected and acting Howard County Surveyor.
   VIOLATION. Any act or omission which violates or fails to comply with any
provision of this chapter.
   VIOLATOR.  Any person who commits a violation.
(Ord. BCCO-2023-26, passed 7-3-23)
§ 155.02 REGULATION EXCAVATIONS IN OR UPON COUNTY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Excavate in or upon county property other than excavating pursuant
to a permit issued by the County Engineer under §
155.04 prior to commencement of the excavation.
      (2)   Plow in or upon county property; or
      (3)   Create or maintain a conveyance blockage in or upon county
property.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any person who excavates in or upon any
county property pursuant to a permit obtained under §
155.04 to:
      (1)   Fail to restore the excavation site to the same condition it was in
prior to the excavation; or
      (2)   Fail to repair at such person's sole expense any damage to county
property which occurs as a result of the excavation; and/or
      (3)   Fail to repair at such person's sole expense any damage to private/
mutual drains or tiles which occurs as a result of the excavation.
      (4)   Fail to conduct an excavation in accordance with the plans
submitted with the application filed under §
155.04.
   (C)   This shall not apply to:
      (1)   The excavation or cutting of a county road which would require a
separate road-cut permit obtained from the County Engineer; or to
      (2)   Plowing strictly for agricultural crop production.
(Ord. BCCO-2023-26, passed 7-3-23) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.03 REGULATION OF DRAINAGE DISCHARGE ONTO COUNTY PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall create or maintain a drainage discharge on to any
county property without first obtaining a drainage discharge permit from the
County Engineer pursuant to §
155.04.
   (B)   If a drainage discharge or conveyance blockage on or to any county
property is in existence at the time this chapter becomes effective, no person
shall continue to maintain such drainage discharge or conveyance blockage
without first obtaining a permit under §
155.04 within 30 days after the receipt of written notice from the County
Engineer advising that a permit is required. The notice shall be served by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the process of requesting approval
from the surveyor to connect a private drain to a regulated drain under I.C.
36-9-27-17.
(Ord. BCCO-2023-26, passed 7-3-23) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 APPLICATION AND PERMIT PROCESS.
   (A)   Excavation applications.
      (1)   Any person desiring to excavate in or upon county property shall
file an application with the County Engineer before commencing work. The
application form shall be prepared and made available by the County Engineer,
requesting the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and contact information for the applicant;
         (b)   The exact location of the proposed digging or trenching;
         (c)   The necessity for and details of the proposed digging or
trenching;
         (d)   The following indemnification provision to which applicant
agrees as a condition for issuance of a permit:
         Applicant hereby agrees to indemnify and hold Howard County, its
agents, officials and employees, harmless from any and all costs, claims,
expenses, damages and liabilities (including reasonable attorney fees) of any
kind, arising out of or relating to the excavation work for which a Permit is
requested.
         (e)   A detailed and accurate map or sketch of the proposed excavation
project; and
         (f)   Such other information as the County Engineer and/or the Howard
County Surveyor deem appropriate.
      (2)   If the applicant is an excavation contractor, in addition to being
bound by the indemnification agreement contained in the application, such
applicant shall also submit a Certificate of Insurance with the application
documenting the following coverages:
   Worker's Compensation & Disability--Statutory requirements; Comprehensive
General Liability-Bodily Injury $1,000,000 each occurrence and Property Damage
$2,000,000 aggregate; Comprehensive Auto Liability-Bodily Injury $1,000,000
each person, $1,000,000 each occurrence, and Property Damage $1,000,000 each
occurrence; Comprehensive Umbrella Liability $1,000,000 each occurrence and
$1,000,000 aggregate.
      (3)   The County Engineer shall not issue any permit until the
application has been reviewed and approved by the Howard County Surveyor.
   (B)   Drainage discharge applications.
      (1)   Any person desiring to create and maintain a drainage discharge, or
to continue to maintain an existing drainage discharge, shall file an
application with the County Engineer before commencing work, or within 30 days
after receiving the notice specified in § 155.03(B) above, whichever is
applicable. The application shall be prepared and made available by the County
Engineer, requesting the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and contact information of the applicant;
         (b)   The exact location of the proposed drainage discharge;
         (c)   The necessity for and details of the proposed drainage
discharge; and
         (d)   Such other information as the County Engineer and/or the Howard
County Surveyor deem appropriate.
      (2)   Unless the County Engineer determines that the application is for
an entire project, a separate application is required for each project.
      (3)   The County Engineer shall not issue any permit until the
application has been reviewed and commented upon by the Howard County Surveyor.
   (C)   Additional requirements applicable to both applications in divisions
(A) and (B):
      (1)   A non-refundable fee of $50 must be submitted with the application
form to offset the costs of processing the application.
      (2)   Upon approval of an application, the County Engineer shall issue a
written permit. If an application is denied, the applicant may request a
hearing before the Board of Commissioners. Such request shall be filed in
writing with the County Engineer no later than 15 days after the application is
denied.
      (3)   A permit approved under this division (C) shall expire one year
from the date of issuance.
(Ord. BCCO-2023-26, passed 7-3-23)
§ 155.99 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Acting under the Board of Commissioners' authority to delegate certain
duties, the County Engineer is hereby authorized to administer, implement and
enforce the provisions of this chapter in accordance with the policies and
procedures set out in this section. For this purpose, the County Engineer (and
the Howard County Surveyor, where applicable) shall have the right to enter
upon and inspect real estate and facilities subject to regulation hereunder as
often as necessary to determine compliance or non-compliance.
   (B)   If a violation cannot be informally resolved, the County Engineer may
issue a written notice of violation by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to any violator. The notice will describe the violation committed
and state that it must be corrected within 15 days (or more if circumstances
dictate) of receipt, or further action may be taken, including possible fines,
court actions or other remedial steps permitted by law.
   (C)   If the violation is corrected within the allotted time no further
action will be taken. If the violation is not timely corrected, the County
Engineer may, at their discretion, seek compliance by imposing a fine upon the
violator for each day the violation continues, not to exceed $1,000 in the
aggregate. If such fine does not achieve compliance, or the County Engineer
opts to not impose a fine, the County Engineer may refer the matter to the
Board of Commissioners requesting that, after due consideration, the Board of
Commissioners take one or more of the following actions:
      (1)   Set a hearing on the violation, with due notice to the violator, by
certified mail, return receipt requested, mailed at least 15 days prior to the
hearing date.
      (2)   With or without a hearing:
         (a)   Issue orders to violator to correct violations;
         (b)   Impose fines not to exceed $2,500 in the aggregate in accordance
with I.C. 36-1-6-9;
         (c)   Commence a court action to enforce this chapter under the
authority of I.C. 36-1-6-4 requesting the court to order one or more of the
remedies listed in this chapter, including (but not limited to) injunctive
relief, cease and desist orders, enforcement of fines levied and remediation;
and/or
         (d)   Seek reasonable compensation from a court for damages the
violator has caused to county property.
   (D)   An appeal of any action, order or fine imposed by the Board of
Commissioners or any fine imposed by the County Engineer pursuant to division
(C) above must be filed with the court not more than 60 days after imposition
of any action, order or fine, all in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-9(f).
   (E)   The above listed remedies are not exclusive of any other remedies
which may be available to the Board of Commissioners under any federal, state
or local law or regulation.
(Ord. BCCO-2023-26, passed 7-3-23)
CHAPTER 156: STORM WATER EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01    Introduction
   
156.02    Purpose
   
156.03    Definitions
Permit Procedures
   
156.10   Permit requirements
   
156.11    Review and approval of the permit application
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.20    Inspections
   
156.21    Notice
   
156.22    Violation
   
156.23    Appeals
   
156.24    Remedies not exclusive
   
156.25    Transfer of permit
   
156.26    Termination of permit
Cross-reference:
   Illicit discharges, see
Chapter 53
   Storm water drainage, see
Chapter 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 INTRODUCTION.
   During the construction process, soil is highly vulnerable to erosion by
wind and water. Eroded soil endangers water resources by reducing water quality
and causing the siltation of aquatic habitat for fish and other desirable
species. Eroded soil also necessitates repair of sewers and ditches and the
dredging of lakes. In addition, clearing and grading during construction cause
the loss of native vegetation necessary for terrestrial and aquatic habitat.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-38, passed 11-1-04)
§ 156.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   As a result, the purpose of this chapter is to safeguard persons,
protect property, and prevent damage to the environment in the MS4 Area.
   (B)   This chapter will also promote the public welfare by guiding,
regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any
development or other activity that disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in
the movement of earth on land within the MS4 Area.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-38, passed 11-1-04)
§ 156.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE or BMP.  Any structural or nonstructural control
measure utilized to improve the quality and, as appropriate, reduce the
quantity of storm water runoff. The term includes schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practice, treatment requirements, operation and maintenance
procedures, use of containment facilities, land use planning, policy
techniques, and other management practices.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land-disturbing activities associated with the
construction of infrastructure or structures. The term CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY
does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor landscaping
projects.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. An ordered collection of drawings, narratives, data and
documents assembled for review, approval, authorization and establishment of
guidelines for the initiation, management and completion of construction
activities at a project site regulated by this chapter. A Storm Water Pollution
Prevention Plan (SWP3) is a part of the construction plan.
   CONSTRUCTION PROJECT SITE. The physical location(s) or legal boundaries
within which a construction activity or a series of construction activities is
planned to be or is being accomplished.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS.  A stabilized stone surface at all points of
construction-related egress from a project site, planned and installed in
accordance with specification from an approved reference manual, and maintained
throughout the period of land-disturbing activities to capture and detain
sediment carried by tires, tracks or other surface-contact components of
vehicles, earthmoving equipment, or material and personnel transport
conveyances.
    DEPARTMENT. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM).
   DEVELOPER. A project site owner or person financially responsible for
construction activity; or an owner of property who sells, leases, or offers for
sale or lease, any lot(s) in a subdivision or larger common plan of development
or sale.
   DIRECTOR. The chief executive officer of IDEM.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any channel that conveys surface storm water runoff.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A set of plans prepared by, or under the
direction of, a licensed professional engineer, licensed land surveyor, or
certified professional in storm water quality (CPSWQ), indicating the specific
measures and sequencing to be used to control sediment and erosion on a
development site during and after construction.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL SYSTEM. Appropriate control measures combined
to prevent or minimize the wearing away of soil, sediment and rock fragments by
water, wind or ice, and to intercept detached or suspended particles to prevent
their discharge from or within a project site.
   EROSION CONTROL. A measure that prevents erosion.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. The establishment of permanent vegetative cover, or the
application of a permanent, non-erosive material to areas where all land-
disturbing activities have been completed and no additional land-disturbing
activities are planned under the current plan.
   GRADING. Excavation or fill of material, including the resulting conditions
thereof.
   INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land in a multi-parcel
development
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any manmade change of the land surface, including
removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil, excavating,
filling, transporting and grading.
   MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured accumulation of precipitation equal to or greater than one-half inch
of rainfall.
   MS4 AREA. The area of Howard County permitted under an NPDES Permit and
regulated by 327 I.A.C. 15-13. The MS4 AREA includes the sections designated,
and from time to time updated by the County Commissioners, excluding
incorporated limits of cities or towns. A map showing the MS4 AREA shall be
kept in the MS4 Operator's office for public review.
    MS4 OPERATOR. The person locally responsible for development,
implementation or enforcement of the Storm Water Quality Management Plan
(SWQMP) for Howard County, as regulated under 327 I.A.C. 15-13, or an
authorized representative thereof.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM or MS4. A system of storm water
conveyances, either owned or operated or regulated by a governmental agency
that IDEM has designated as responsible to eliminate or minimize pollutant
loadings of the storm water entering waters of the state.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES. A program
administered by IDEM to reduce or eliminate pollutant loadings into public
waters.
   NOTICE OF PLAN APPROVAL or NPA. A notification, from the MS4 Operator to the
project site owner, that the construction plan for a project site has been
reviewed and approved by the MS4 Operator.
   PEAK DISCHARGE. The maximum rate of flow from a point of storm water
discharge during or immediately following a storm event, usually in reference
to a specific return period or design storm.
   PERIMETER CONTROL. A barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a site by
filtering sediment-laden runoff or diverting it to a sediment trap or basin.
   PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform minimum of 70%
across the disturbed areas, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that ensures the resistance of the underlying soil to erosion, sliding
or other movement.
   PHASING OF CONSTRUCTION. Sequential development of smaller portions of a
large project site, stabilizing each portion before initiating land- disturbing
activities on the next portion, to minimize exposure of land to erosion.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. The person who is responsible for any violation of this
chapter.
   RUNOFF. An accumulation of storm water flow that is moving across the
surface of the earth as sheet flow or concentrated flow in natural surface
watercourses, drains or waterways.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material, both organic and mineral, that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water,
gravity or ice, and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Measures that prevent eroded sediment from leaving the
site.
   SEDIMENTATION. The settling and accumulation of unconsolidated sediment
carried by storm water runoff.
   SITE. A parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading
work is performed as a single unified operation.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the municipality for the
construction or alteration of ground improvements and structures for the
control of erosion, runoff and grading.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first land- disturbing activity associated with a
development, including land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling;
installation of streets and walkways; excavation for basements, footings, piers
or foundations; erection of temporary forms; and installation of accessory
buildings such as garages.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN or SWP3. A plan developed to minimize
the impact of storm water pollutants resulting from construction and post-
construction activities, including the erosion and sediment control plan.
   STORM WATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice or combination of practices to
control or minimize pollutants associated with storm water runoff.
   TEMPORARY STABILIZATION. The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch, or other non-erosive materials applied at a uniform minimum
density of 70% across the disturbed areas of a project site.
   TRACKING. The movement and re-depositing of dirt, mud, aggregate, sediment
or other storm water pollutants from a project site by the actions of wheels,
tires, skids, tracks or other surface-contact components of cars, trucks, heavy
equipment, or material and personnel transport conveyances.
   WATERCOURSE. Any body of water, including but not limited to, lakes, ponds,
rivers, streams, and bodies of water delineated within the county.
   WATERWAY. A channel that directs surface runoff to a watercourse or to the
public storm drainage system.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-38, passed 11-1-04)
PERMIT PROCEDURES
§ 156.10 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For land-disturbing activity within the MS4 Area uncovering one
or more acres of land, no developer shall be granted a site development permit
without the approval by the MS4 Operator of a Storm Water Pollution Prevention
Plan.
      (2)   For individual building lots less than one acre, see division (B)
below.
   (B)   (1)   The developer of an individual building lot containing less than
one acre, but which is a part of a multi-lot construction project within the
MS4 Area, shall be required to complete a Declaration of Responsibility for
Erosion and Sediment Control for a Small Residential Lot, prior to receipt of
an improvement location permit.
      (2)   This declaration assigns responsibility for conformance to the
construction plan, as required in 327 I.A.C. 15-5-7.5, to the individual
building lot developer.
   (C)   No responsible party may commence a land- disturbing construction
activity within the MS4 Area, without first receiving prior approval of a site
development permit, as required in division (A) or (B) above.
   (D)   The Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan submitted to the MS4
Operator shall include all documents and information required within 327 I.A.C.
15-5.
    (E)   No site development permit is required for the following activities:
      (1)   Any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the
protection of life, property or natural resources.
      (2)   Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a
permitted main or accessory use.
   (F)   (1)   Each site development permit application shall bear the name(s)
and address(es) of the developer of the site, and of any consulting firm
retained by the applicant, together with the name of the applicant's principal
contact at such firm, and shall be accompanied by a filing fee.
      (2)   The developer or his or her authorized agent shall sign the
application.
   (G)   A site development permit may be denied if, in the opinion of the MS4
Operator, the proposed plan is likely to result in runoff that causes undue
channel erosion, increases water pollution by scouring or the transportation of
particulate matter, or endangers property or public safety.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-38, passed 11-1-04)
§ 156.11 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF THE PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The MS4 operator will review each application for a site development
permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Within 28 days after receiving an application, the MS4 Operator
shall approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the application.
      (2)   Possible actions are further defined as:
         (a)   APPROVE. The permit application is found to be completely
consistent with the requirement within this chapter. Therefore, the MS4
Operator shall issue a Notice of Plan Approval (NPA);
         (b)   APPROVE WITH CONDITIONS. The permit application is generally
consistent with the requirements within this chapter, but specific minor
modifications are required to meet all of the applicable requirements.
Therefore, the MS4 Operator shall issue the permit, subject to these written
conditions, along with a Conditional Notice of Plan Approval (CNPA); or
         (c)   DISAPPROVE. The permit application does not meet the
requirements of this chapter, and requires modifications that would result in
significant changes to the construction plan. Therefore, the MS4 Operator shall
disapprove the application, indicating the reason(s) and procedure for
submitting a revised application and/or submission.
   (B) The developer must include the NPA or CNPA, as verification of plan
approval, with the Notice of Intent (NOI) sent to the Director of IDEM, in
accordance with 327 I.A.C. 15-5-6(a), at least 48 hours prior to land-
disturbing activities.
   (C)   The initiation of construction activity, following notification by the
MS4 Operator that the plan does not meet the requirements of this chapter, is a
violation and subject to enforcement action.
    (D)   If, within 28 days after the plan is received by the MS4 Operator,
the project site owner does not receive notification stating that the plan has
been disapproved, the project site owner may submit the NOI letter information
to IDEM, in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 15-5-6(a).
   (E)   If notification of a disapproved plan is received after the review
period outlined in division (A)(1), and following commencement of construction
activities, the plans must be modified to meet the requirements of the chapter,
and resubmitted within 14 days of receipt of the notification of disapproved
plans.
   (F)   The developer shall be required to submit a copy of the NOI to the MS4
Operator.
   (G)   The permit shall be valid for the shorter of five years from date of
issuance, or until:
      (1)   The permit is terminated under §
156.26.
      (2)   The permit is transferred under §
156.25.
      (3)   The permit is revoked under §
156.22(B).
(Ord. 2004-BCC-38, passed 11-1-04)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.20 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The permittee shall have a copy of the approved Storm Water Pollution
Prevention Plan readily available.
   (B)   Every active site having a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan
should be inspected by the MS4 Operator for compliance with the plan.
   (C)   Inspectors shall prepare written reports after every inspection.
   (D)   Inspectors shall notify the on-site personnel or the developer, in
writing, when violations are being observed, describing items to address and
actions to be taken.
   (E)   It shall be a condition of every site development permit that the MS4
Operator has the right to enter the construction project site periodically to
inspect for compliance with the site development permit and this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   The County Drainage Board and the County Surveyor shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   For this purpose, the County Surveyor and his or her agents shall
have the right to enter upon, and to inspect real estate and facilities subject
to regulation under this chapter, as often as necessary to determine compliance
or non-compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-38, passed 11-1-04)
§ 156.21 NOTICE.
   (A)   The County Surveyor shall issue a notice of violation letter by
certified mail to any responsible person committing a violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   The notice of violation letter will:
      (1)   Describe the violation that has been committed; and
      (2)   State that such violation must be corrected within 15 days of the
date of notice or further action may be taken, including possible fines.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-38, passed 11-1-04)
§ 156.22 VIOLATION.
   (A)   If the violation is corrected within the 15 days from the postmarked
date of notice, no further action will be taken.
   (B)   If the violation is not so corrected, the Surveyor shall, after
determining which course of action best will result in a correction of the
violation:
      (1)   File the notice of violation with the County Drainage Board, which
shall conduct a hearing, with notice to the responsible person, within 30 days
of such filing.
         (a)   If the Drainage Board finds by a preponderance of the evidence
that a violation of this Chapter has occurred, it may:
            1.   Impose fines upon the responsible person in an amount not to
exceed $2,500, all in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-9(d), and/or
            2.   Issue orders to correct violations.
         (b)   In the event the responsible person does not pay any fine
imposed by the Drainage Board or correct the violation as ordered by the
Drainage Board, the Drainage Board may commence a court action to enforce any
fine or to obtain compliance with any order under I.C. 34-28-5-1(b); or
      (2)   Commence a court action under I.C. 34-28-5-1(b) to enforce this
chapter.
         (a)   Such action may be for injunctive relief, restraining the
responsible person from activities causing a violation, or compelling such
person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
         (b)   In addition or in the alternative, the court, at its discretion,
may impose fines not exceeding $2,500.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-38, passed 11-1-04)
§ 156.23 APPEALS.
   Any appeal by a responsible person of an order or fine issued by the
Drainage Board must be filed with the Court not more than sixty (60) days after
the day on which the Drainage Board Order is entered, all in accordance with
I.C. 36-1-6-9(e) and (f).
(Ord. 2004-BCC-38, passed 11-1-04)
§ 156.24 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any federal, state or local laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-38, passed 11-1-04)
§ 156.25 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Prior to termination of the permit, if all or part of the construction
site transfers from one MS4 Area to another through annexation or other means,
the site development permit, bond and enforcement authority shall transfer,
through a Notice of Transfer between the two MS4 entities.
   (B)   This shall not indemnify the permit holder from any pending
enforcement action.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-38, passed 11-1-04)
§ 156.26 TERMINATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Upon completion of all construction activities associated with the
site development permit, the applicant shall submit a Notice of Termination
(NOT) letter to the MS4 Operator.
   (B)   Termination of Permit will be issued by the MS4 Operator only if the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   All land-disturbing activities, including construction on all
building lots, have been completed and the entire site has been stabilized.
      (2)   All public and common improvements, including infrastructure, have
been completed and permanently stabilized, and have been transferred to the
appropriate local entity.
   (C)   The applicant may submit an NOT letter to obtain early release from
compliance with this rule, if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The remaining, undeveloped acreage does not exceed five acres, with
contiguous areas not to exceed one acre.
      (2)   A map of the project site, clearly identifying all remaining
undeveloped lots, is attached to the NOT letter.
      (3)   The map must be accompanied by a list of the names and addresses of
individual lot owners or individual lot operators of all undeveloped lots.
      (4)   The remaining acreage does not pose a significant threat to the
integrity of the infrastructure, adjacent properties, or water quality.
      (5)   All permanent storm water quality measures have been implemented
and are operational.
(Ord. 2004-BCC-38, passed 11-1-04)
CHAPTER 157: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
Section
   
157.01   Scope
   
157.02   Purpose
   
157.03   Definitions
   
157.04   Design standards for permitted accessory use
   
157.05   Principal uses
   
157.06   Special exception permit
   
157.07   Renewable energy condition for certain permits
   
157.08   Solar roof incentives
§ 157.01 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to any solar energy systems installations in Howard
County, Indiana that have a footprint over one acre in size, with a rated
capacity over 200 kilowatts, and providing energy to be used off-site.
(Ord. 2021-BCCO-28, passed 11-1-21)
§ 157.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter provides for the implementation of solar energy systems in
Howard County, which convert the power of the sun into the generation of
electricity. Howard County finds that it is in the public interest to regulate
the use and development of renewable energy systems. Howard County supports the
use of solar energy collection systems, and the regulations found in this
chapter are not intended to severely limit the placement of solar energy
systems in Howard County. The regulations in this chapter are intended to
consider the unique needs of solar energy systems and to provide for the most
efficient use of this type of renewable energy system. This chapter is also
intended to protect the character of residential neighborhoods and commercial
corridors, as well as to insure that solar energy systems are placed and
constructed in such a way that is harmonious and beneficial to agricultural
property.
(Ord. 2021-BCCO-28, passed 11-1-21)
§ 157.03 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   AGRIVOLTAICS. A solar energy system co-located on the same parcel of land as
agricultural production, including crop production, grazing, apiaries, or other
agricultural products or services.
   BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building. Building-integrated systems include, but are not
limited to, photovoltaic or hot water solar energy systems that are contained
within roofing materials, windows, skylights, and awning.
   COMMUNITY-SCALE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A commercial energy system that
provides retail electric power (or a financial proxy for retail power) to
multiple community members or businesses residing or located off-site from the
location of the solar energy system.
   GRID-TIED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A photovoltaic solar energy system that is
connected to a electric circuit served by an electric utility company.
   GROUND-MOUNTED. A solar energy system mounted on a rack or pole that rests
or is attached to the ground. Ground-mounted systems can be either accessory or
principal uses.
   LARGE-SCALE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A commercial solar energy system that
converts sunlight into electricity for the primary purpose of wholesale sales
of generated electricity, large-scale solar energy system will have a project
size greater than ten acres. It can include collection and feeder lines,
substations, ancillary buildings, solar monitoring stations and accessory
equipment or structures thereto, that capture and convert solar energy into
electrical energy, primarily for use in locations other than where it is
generated.
   OFF-GRID SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A photovoltaic solar energy system in which
the circuits energized by the solar energy system are not electrically
connected in any way to electric circuits that are served by an electric
utility company.
   PASSIVE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that captures solar light
or heat without transforming it to another form of energy or transferring the
energy via a heat exchanger.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that converts solar energy
directly into electricity.
   POLLINATOR-FRIENDLY SOLAR ENERGY. A community- or large-scale solar energy
system that meets the requirements of the 2020 Indiana Solar Site Pollinator
Habitat Planning Scorecard developed by the Purdue University or another
pollinator-friendly checklist developed by a third-party as a solar-pollinator
standard designed for Midwestern ecosystems, soils, and habitat.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY EASEMENT, SOLAR ENERGY EASEMENT. An easement that limits
the height or location, or both, of permissible development on the burdened
land in terms of a structure or vegetation, or both, for the purpose of
providing access for the benefited land to wind or sunlight passing over the
burdened land.
   ROOF-MOUNTED. A solar energy system mounted on a rack that is fastened to or
ballasted on a structure roof, roof-mounted systems are accessory to the
principal use.
   ROOF PITCH. The final exterior slope of a roof calculated by the rise over
the run, typically but not exclusively expressed in twelfths such as 3/12, 9/
12, 12/12.
   SOLAR ACCESS. Unobstructed access to direct sunlight on a lot or building
through the entire year, including access across adjacent parcel air rights,
for the purpose of capturing direct sunlight to operate a solar energy system.
   SOLAR CARPORT. A solar energy system of any size that is installed on a
carport structure that is accessory to a parking area, and which may include
electric vehicle supply equipment or energy storage facilities.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure or a part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy. The collector does not include
frames, supports, or mounting hardware.
   SOLAR DAYLIGHTING. Capturing and directing the visible light spectrum for
use in illuminating interior building spaces in lieu of artificial lighting,
usually by adding a device or design element to the building envelope.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A device, array of devices, or structural design
feature, the purpose of which is to provide for generation or storage of
electricity from sunlight, or the collection, storage, and distribution of
solar energy for space heating or cooling, daylight for interior lighting, or
water heating.
   SOLAR HOT AIR SYSTEM (also referred to as SOLAR AIR HEAT or SOLAR FURNACE).
A solar energy system that includes a solar collector to provide direct
supplemental space heating by heating and re-circulating conditioned building
air. The most efficient performance includes a solar collector to preheat air
or supplement building space, typically using a vertically mounted collector on
a south-facing wall.
   SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM (also referred to as SOLAR THERMAL). A system that
includes a solar collector and a heat exchanger that heats or preheats water
for building heating systems or other hot water needs, including residential
domestic hot water and hot water for commercial processes.
   SOLAR MOUNTING DEVICES. Racking, frames, or other devices that allow the
mounting of a solar collector onto a roof surface or the ground.
   SOLAR RESOURCE. A view of the sun from a specific point on a lot, or
building that is not obscured by any vegetation, building, or object for a
minimum of four hours between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Standard
time on all days of the year, and can be measured in annual watts per square
meter.
   SOLAR-READY DESIGN. The design and construction of a building that
facilitates and makes feasible the installation of rooftop solar.
(Ord. 2021-BCCO-28, passed 11-1-21)
§ 157.04 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR PERMITTED ACCESSORY USE.
   Solar energy systems may be a permitted accessory use in all zoning
districts where structures of any sort are allowed, subject to certain
requirements as set forth below, and subject to such agreements reached or
conditions imposed by the Board of Zoning Appeals and/or the county executive.
Solar carports and associated electric vehicle charging equipment are a
permitted accessory use on surface parking lots in all districts regardless of
the existence of another building.
   (A)   Height. Solar energy systems must meet the following height
requirements:
      (1)   Building or roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed the
maximum allowed height in any zoning district. For purposes of height
measurement, solar energy systems other than building-integrated systems shall
be given an equivalent exception to height standards as building mounted
mechanical devices or equipment.
      (2)   Ground or pole-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 15
feet in height when oriented at maximum tilt.
      (3)   Solar carports in non-residential districts shall not exceed 20
feet in height.
   (B)   Setback. Solar energy systems must meet the accessory structure
setback for the zoning district and principal use associated with the lot on
which the system is located, as allowed below.
      (1)   Roof or building-mounted solar energy systems. The collector
surface and mounting devices for roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not
extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is
mounted or built, unless the collector and mounting system has been explicitly
engineered to safely extend beyond the edge, and setback standards are not
violated. Exterior piping for solar hot water systems shall be allowed to
extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a side yard exposure. Solar
collectors mounted on the sides of buildings and serving as awnings are
considered to be building-integrated systems and are regulated as awnings.
      (2)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems. Ground-mounted solar energy
systems may not extend into the side-yard or rear setback when oriented at
minimum design tilt, except as otherwise allowed for building mechanical
systems.
   (C)   Visibility. Solar energy systems in residential districts shall be
designed to minimize visual impacts from the public right-of-way, as described
in divisions (1) to (3) below, to the extent that doing so does not affect the
cost or efficacy of the system, consistent with I.C. 36-7-2-8.
      (1)    Building-integrated photovoltaic systems. Building integrated
photovoltaic solar energy systems shall be allowed regardless of whether the
system is visible from the public right-of-way, provided the building component
in which the system is integrated meets all required setback, land use or
performance standards for the district in which the building is located.
      (2)   Aesthetic restrictions. Roof-mounted or ground-mounted solar energy
systems shall not be restricted for aesthetic reasons if the system is not
visible from the closest edge of any public right-of-way other than an alley if
the system meets the following standards.
         (a)   Roof-mounted systems on pitched roofs that are visible from the
nearest edge of the front right-of-way shall have the same finished pitch as
the roof and be no more than ten inches above the roof.
         (b)   Roof-mounted systems on flat roofs that are visible from the
nearest edge of the front right-of-way shall not be more than five feet above
the finished roof and are exempt from any rooftop equipment or mechanical
system screening.
      (3)   Reflectors. All solar energy systems using a reflector to enhance
solar production shall minimize glare from the reflector affecting adjacent or
nearby properties.
   (D)   Lot coverage. Ground-mounted systems shall not be subject to the
existing lot coverage restrictions for the zoning district.
   (E)   Historic buildings. Solar energy systems on buildings within
designated historic districts or on locally designated historic buildings
(exclusive of state or federal historic designation) must receive approval of
the local Historic Preservation Commission, or equivalent consistent with the
standards of solar energy systems on historically designated buildings
published by the U.S. Department of the Interior.
   (F)   Approved solar components. Electric solar energy system components
must have an Underwriters Laboratory (UL) or equivalent listing and solar hot
water systems must have a Solar Rating & Certification Corporation (SRCC) or
equivalent rating.
   (G)   Compliance with building code. All solar energy systems shall meet
approval of local building code officials, consistent with the State of Indiana
Building Code, and solar thermal systems shall comply with HVAC-related
requirements of the energy code.
   (H)   Compliance with state electric code. All photovoltaic systems shall
comply with the Indiana State Electric Code.
   (I)   Compliance with county requirements. Prior to commencement of
construction, an applicant shall obtain necessary county approvals including
approval by the county Drainage Board as to project drainage, and shall be
subject to agreements required by the county executive, including but not
limited to, road use, economic development, drainage, stormwater, and
decommissioning/reclamation agreements. It is expected and intended that any
applicant shall further endeavor to reach "good neighbor" agreements with
property owners affected by the project; however, the failure to reach such an
agreement with all affected owners shall not be the sole ground for disapproval
of the project.
   (J)   Utility notification. Where applicable, it is recommended that the
interconnection application be submitted to the utility prior to applying for
required permits. Grid-tied solar energy systems shall comply with
interconnection requirements of the applicable regional transmission
organization. Off-grid systems are exempt from this requirement.
   (K)   Well-testing. Any county resident within a half mile of the solar
project may request well testing at the start of the project and within 30 days
after completion of the project, with the cost of the testing borne by the
solar energy company.
(Ord. 2021-BCCO-28, passed 11-1-21)
§ 157.05 PRINCIPAL USES.
   Howard County encourages the development of commercial or utility scale
solar energy systems where such systems present few land usage conflicts with
current and future development patterns.
   (A)   Principal use general standard.
      (1)   Site design.
         (a)   Setbacks. Community- and large-scale solar arrays must meet the
following setbacks:
            1.   Property line setback from a non-participating landowner's
property line must meet the established setback for buildings or structures in
the district in which the system is located, except as otherwise directed
below.
            2.   Property line setbacks between separate parcels both of which
are participating in the project may be waived upon agreement of the landowner
(s).
            3.   Roadway setback of 50 feet from the ROW of State highways and
County and State Aid Highways (CSAHs), and 40 feet for other roads.
            4.    Structure setback of a minimum of 300 feet from a non-
participating landowner's existing permanent structure that exceeds 250 square
feet in size, except as otherwise determined below, and a minimum of 100 feet
from the property line of any non-participating landowner. Participating
landowner housing must meet building setbacks for the district in which the
project is located.
            5.   Setback distance should be measured from the edge of the solar
energy system array, excluding security fencing, screening, or berm.
            6.   An individual landowner within the project may waive by
written agreement the setback applicable to the landowner's property; however,
setbacks can be reduced by no more than 50%.
         (b)   Screening. Community- and large-scale solar energy systems shall
be screened or buffered from adjacent existing residential dwellings. A
buffering plan shall be approved so long as the buffer meets existing county
standards.
            1.   A landscape plan shall be submitted that identifies the type
and extent of proposed buffer and screening. Vegetation or another type of
buffer can be proposed. Any vegetation screening such as pine trees or similar
plantings shall be four feet high at the time of planting and shall be spaced
no more than eight feet apart.
            2.    Screening shall be consistent with Howard County's screening
and ordinance or standards typically applied for other and uses requiring
screening.
            3.    Screening shall not be required along highways or roadways,
except as provided in division 4. below or along property lines within the same
zoning district, except where the adjoining lot has an existing residential
use.
            4.   Howard County may require screening where it determines there
is a clear community interest in maintaining a viewshed.
         (c)   Height. Large- and community-scale and solar energy systems
shall not exceed 20 feet. This height restriction does not apply to any
building constructed for maintenance or operations purposes. Installation shall
not be located so as to interfere with existing satellite television, cell
phone and/or internet service.
         (d)   Ground cover and buffer areas. Community- or large-scale ground-
mounted solar energy systems are required to adhere to the following standards.
Additional site-specific conditions may apply as required by Howard County.
            1.   Ground around and under solar panels and in project site
buffer areas shall be planted, established, and maintained for the life of the
solar project in perennial vegetated ground cover.
            2.   To the maximum extent feasible for site conditions, perennial
vegetation ground cover shall be based on a diverse seed mix of native species
consistent with guidance specific to the local area provided by the Soil and
Water Conservation District office or the Indiana Native Plant Society.
            3.   The owner/operator shall demonstrate site maintenance that is
intended to remove invasive or noxious species, as listed by the Indiana
Invasive Species Council, without harming perennial vegetation.
            4.   No insecticide use is permitted on the site. This provision
does not apply to insecticide or herbicide use on in-site buildings, in and
around electrical boxes, spot control of noxious weeds, or as otherwise may be
deemed necessary to protect public health and safety.
            5.   Plant material must not have been treated with systemic
insecticides, particularly neonicotinoids.
            6.    Community- or - large-scale ground-mounted solar energy
systems that propose to install, establish, and maintain pollinator-friendly
vegetative cover are to demonstrate the quality of the habitat by using guides
such as Purdue University 2020 Indiana Solar Site Pollinator Habitat Planning
Scorecard, or other third party solar-pollinator scorecards designed for
Midwestern eco-systems, soils and habitats.
            7.   Projects certified and maintained as pollinator-friendly
compliant may be exempt from landscaping requirements and post-construction
stormwater management controls (as stated in division (2) below), subject to
any agreement reached, and subject to any special conditions imposed by the
county executive, the Plan Commission or the Board of Zoning Appeals.
            8.   Foundati ons. A qualified and licensed engineer shall certify
prior application for building permits, that the foundation and design of the
solar panel racking and support is within accepted and professional standards,
given local soil and climate changes.
         (e)   Power and communication lines.  Power and communication lines
running between banks of solar panels and to nearby electric substations or
interconnections with buildings shall be buried underground. Exemptions may be
granted by Howard County in instances where shallow bedrock, water courses, or
other elements of the natural landscape interfere with the ability to bury
lines, or distance makes undergrounding infeasible, at the discretion of the
zoning administration. Power and communication lines between the project and
the point of interconnection with the transmission system can be overhead,
subject to approval of the county plan director.
         (f)   Fencing.  Except for the perimeter of a substation, perimeter
fencing for the site shall not include barbed wire or chain link designs and
shall preferably use wildlife-friendly fencing standards that include clearance
at the bottom. No wood fencing shall be permitted, although wooden poles may be
used with wire fencing. Alternative fencing can be used if the site is
incorporating agrivoltaics. All such fencing shall be at a minimum height of
seven feet in accordance with federal law.
         (g)   Lighting. Any lights installed anywhere within the project
footprint shall not extend lighting more than 50 feet beyond the boundaries of
the footprint.
         (h)   EPA standards. Prior to installation of any solar panels, shall
provide to the county Plan Commission proof that the arsenic and lead levels of
the panels to be installed comply with current EPA standards.
         (i)   Safety training. All applicants are required to provide, at the
applicant's expense, within the first 60 days after installation of solar
panels, training for local first responders concerning solar panel hazards and
corresponding safety measures, and copies of Material Safety Data sheets,
installation of solar panels, training for local first responders concerning
solar panel hazards and corresponding safety measures, and copies of Material
Safety Data Sheets.
      (2)   Stormwater, NPDES and other codes. Large- and community-scale solar
projects are subject to Howard County's stormwater management and erosion and
sediment control provisions and Nonpoint Pollution Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit requirements. All large- and community-scale solar projects
shall comply with all applicable local, state and federal regulatory codes,
including the State of Indiana Uniform Building Code, as amended; and the
National Electric Code, as amended.
      (3)   Site plan required. The applicant shall submit a detailed site plan
for both existing and proposed conditions, showing general locations of all
solar arrays, other structures, property lines, right-of-way, service roads,
floodplains, wetlands, and other protected natural resources, topography,
electric equipment, and all other characteristics requested by Howard County.
The site plan should show all zoning districts and overlay districts.
      (4)   Aviation protection. For large-and community-scale solar projects
located within 500 feet of an airport or within approach zones of an airport,
the applicant must complete and provide the results of a glare analysis through
a qualitative analysis of potential impact, field test demonstration, or
geometric analysis of ocular impact in consultation with the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) Office of Airports, consistent with the Interim Policy,
FAA Review of Solar Energy Projects on Federally Obligated Airports, or most
recent version adopted by the FAA.
      (5)   Agricultural protection. Large- and community-scale solar energy
projects must comply with Howard County's site assessment standards for
identifying agriculture soils. Howard County may require mitigation for use of
prime soils for solar array placement, including the following:
         (a)   Demonstrating co-location of agricultural uses (agrivoltaics) on
the project site;
         (b)   Using an interim use or time-limited Conditional Use Permit
(CUP) that allows the site to be returned to agriculture at the end of life of
the solar installation;
         (c)   Locating the project in a wellhead protection area for the
purpose of removing agricultural uses from high-risk recharge areas; and
         (d)   Using pollinator-friendly ground cover, as identified in §
157.03.
      (6)   Decommissioning.  A decommissioning agreement shall be required to
ensure that facilities are properly removed after their useful life. The
agreement shall include, but is not limited to, the following terms:
         (a)    Decommissioning and removal. Any ground-mounted solar energy
system which has reached the end of its useful life or has been abandoned shall
be removed by the owner. The owner or operator shall physically complete
removal of the installation no more than 180 days after the date of
discontinued operations, or by a time-frame determined by the Plan Director for
extenuating circumstances. Decommissioning shall consist of:
            1.   Physical removal of all solar energy system structures and
equipment from the site;
            2.   Disposal of all solid and hazardous waste in accordance with
local, state, and federal disposal regulations; and
            3.    Stabilization or re-vegetation of the site as necessary to
minimize erosion. The Plan Director or the county executive may enter into an
agreement to allow the owner or operator to leave landscaping or designated
below-grade foundations in order to minimize erosion and disruption to
vegetation. However, a stormwater permit is required for any disturbance over
one acre in area.
         (b)   Abandonment. Absent notice of a proposed date of decommissioning
or written notice of extenuating circumstances, the ground-mounted solar energy
system shall be considered abandoned when it fails to operate for more than one
year without the written consent of the Plan Commission Director.
         (c)   Right to remove. If the owner or operator of the ground-mounted
solar energy system fails to remove the installation in accordance with the
requirements of this section within 90 days of abandonment or the proposed date
of decommissioning, Howard County retains the right, after receipt of an
appropriate court order, to enter and remove an abandoned, hazardous, or
decommissioned ground-mounted solar energy system. As a condition of issuance
of an improvement location permit, the applicant and the landowner agree to
allow entry to remove an abandoned, hazardous, or decommissioned installation.
         (d)   Security fund. Any owner of a ground-mounted solar energy system
over 1,000 square feet in panel area shall, on the fifth anniversary of the
date of commercial operation of the solar project, establish a cash security
fund, bond, irrevocable letter of credit or other means to secure the payment
of removing any abandoned solar energy system, including the solar panels and
associated equipment and any buildings that have been determined to be
abandoned or found to be in non-compliance with this chapter, and to provide
Howard County a fund from which to deduct fines and penalties for non-
compliance with this chapter or other applicable laws in the lesser of: (a) the
amount of 125% of the removal cost, which shall be the cost of demolition and
removal of the solar energy system based upon a licensed engineer's estimate of
the cost of removal and demolition, less salvage value; or (b) the removal cost
plus $150,000. Any reduction in the security fund provided, because of fines,
penalties, or removal costs, shall be replenished to the total of the required
amount within 30 days after notice from Howard County of the amount deducted
and the deficiency created thereby. Within a reasonable period of time, not to
exceed three months after the solar energy system is removed, any remaining
funds on deposit with Howard County pursuant to this chapter shall be refunded
to the appropriate owner who created the security fund.
         (e)   Inactivity. Decommissioning of the system must occur in the
event the project does not produce power for six consecutive months. An owner
may petition the county executive for an extension of this period upon showing
of reasonable circumstances that have caused the delay in the start of
decommissioning.
         (f)   Removal and restoration. The plan shall include provisions for
removal of all structures and foundations to a depth of 48", restoration of
soil and vegetation and assurances that financial resources will be available
to fully decommission the site. Disposal of structures and/or foundations shall
meet the provisions of the Howard County Solid Waste Ordinance. All solar
panels are to be disposed of at a site certified for disposal of solar panels.
         (g)   Bonding. Howard County may require the posting of a bond, letter
of credit, parent guarantee, or other financial surety to ensure proper
decommissioning.
         (h)   Review of agreement. The value of the decommission bond or
letter of credit should consider the salvage value of the solar equipment. Any
decommissioning agreement shall be subject to review every five years to ensure
the bonding amount will cover costs of decommissioning, and the bonding
requirement shall be adjusted accordingly.
         (i)    Community-scale solar. Howard County permits the development of
community-scale solar, subject to the following standards and requirements.
            1.   Rooftop shared solar systems permitted. Rooftop systems are
permitted in all districts where buildings are permitted.
            2.    Community-scale uses. Ground-mounted community-scale solar
energy systems must cover no more than ten acres (project boundaries), and are
a permitted use in industrial and agricultural districts, and permitted with
standards or
conditional in all other non-residential districts. Ground-mounted solar
developments covering more than ten acres shall be considered large-scale
solar.
            3.    Dimensional standards. All structures must comply with
setback and height standards for the district in which the system is located.
            4.   Other standards. Ground-mounted systems must comply with all
required standards for structures in the district in which the system is
located.
            5.    Large-scale solar. Ground-mounted solar energy arrays that
are the principal use on the lot are conditional uses in agricultural
districts, industrial districts, and floodplain overlay districts.
(Ord. 2021-BCCO-28, passed 11-1-21)
§ 157.06 SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT.
   Large- and community-scale solar energy projects are special exception uses
in agricultural districts, industrial districts, shoreland and floodplain
overlay districts, airport safety zones subject to § 157.07, and in the
landfill/brownfield overlay district for sites that have completed remediation.
The Plan Commission shall issue any such conditional use permits. Any such
permit shall not be revoked during the life of the project as long as the
project remains in compliance with the standards set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-BCCO-28, passed 11-1-21)
§ 157.07 RENEWABLE ENERGY CONDITION FOR CERTAIN PERMITS.
   (A)   Condition for Planned Unit Development (PUD) approval. Howard County
may require on-site renewable energy systems, zero-net-energy (ZNE) or zero
net-carbon (ZNC) building designs, solar-synchronized electric vehicle charging
or other clean energy systems as a condition for approval of a PUD permit to
mitigate for:
      (1)   Impacts on the performance of the electric distribution system;
      (2)   Increased local emissions of greenhouse gases associated with the
proposal;
      (3)   Need for electric vehicle charging infrastructure to offset
transportation-related emissions for trips generated by the new development;
and
      (4)   Other impacts of the proposed development that are inconsistent
with the Howard County Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Condition for conditional use permit. Howard County may require on-
site renewable energy systems or zero net energy construction as a condition
for a rezoning or a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2021-BCCO-28, passed 11-1-21)
§ 157.08 SOLAR ROOF INCENTIVES.
   Howard County encourages incorporating on-site renewable energy system or
zero net energy construction for new construction and redevelopment. Howard
County may require on-site renewable energy or zero net-energy construction
when issuing a conditional use permit where the project has access to local
energy resources, in order to ensure consistency with Howard County's plan to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
   (A)   Density bonus. Any application for subdivision of land in the
districts that will allow the development of at least four new lots of record
shall be allowed to increase the maximum number of lots by 10% or one lot,
whichever is greater, provided all building and wastewater setbacks can be met
with the increased density, if the applicant enters into a development
agreement guaranteeing at least three kilowatts of PV for each new residence
that has a solar resource.
   (B)   Solar-ready buildings. Howard County encourages builders to use a
solar-ready design in buildings. Buildings that submit a completed U.S. EPA
Renewable Energy Ready Home Solar Photovoltaic Checklist (or other approved
solar- ready standard) and associated documentation will be certified as a
Howard County solar ready home and be eligible for low-cost financing through
Howard County's Economic Development Authority. The designation will be
included in the home's permit history.
   (C)   Solar access variance. When a developer requests a variance from
Howard County's subdivision solar access standards, the zoning administrator
may grant an administrative exception from the solar access standards provided
the applicant meets the conditions of divisions (1) and (2) below.
      (1)   Solar access lots identified. At least 20% of the lots, or a
minimum number of lots to be determined by Howard County.
      (2)   Covenant assigned. Solar access lots are assigned a covenant that
homes built upon these lots must include a solar energy system. Photovoltaic
systems must be at least three KW in capacity.
   (D)   Additional fees waived. Howard County may waive any additional fees
for filing of the covenant.
(Ord. 2021-BCCO-28, passed 11-1-21)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
      
I.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
      
II.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
III.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
IV.   THOROUGHFARE PLAN AMENDMENTS
      
V.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
TABLE I: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.          Date Passed Description
                              Designating certain property as an economic
CC Res. 1986-5    2-25-86     revitalization area giving Dan Wood option of
                              buying the property described in Exhibit “A.”
                              Designating certain property owned by Delco
CC Res. 1989-9    - -89       Electronics Corporation as an economic
                              revitalization area described in Exhibit “A.”
                              Authorizing the Economic Development
                              Administration to use the Overall Economic
BCC Res. —      6-20-88     Development Program Annual Report (1988) as the
                              basis to continue county eligibility as a
                              redevelopment area under the Public Works and
                              Economic Development Act of 1965.
BCC Res. 1989-11  6-19-89     Adopting the Howard County Overall Economic
                              Development Program Annual Report (1989).
                              Designating property located on the west side of
CC Res. 1990-1    2-13-90     South Dixon Road and south of Center Road as an
                              economic revitalization area.
                              Establishing an economic revitalization area in
BCC Res. —      6-11-90     the City of Kokomo with Continental Medical
                              Systems, Inc.
CC Res. 1990-9    6-25-90     Adopting the Howard County Overall Economic
                              Development Program Annual Report (1990).
                              Establishing an economic revitalization area in
CC Res. —       7-31-90     the City of Kokomo with Delco Electronics
                              Corporation.
CC Res. —       9-10-90     Establishing an economic revitalization area in
                              the City of Kokomo with DuPont Photomask, Inc.
BCC Res. 1991-11  6-24-91     Adopting the Howard County Overall Economic
                              Development Program Annual Report (1991).
BCC Res. 1992-6   6-22-92     Adopting the Howard County Overall Economic
                              Development Program Annual Report (1992).
BCC Res. —      6-21-93     Adopting the Howard County Overall Economic
                              Development Program Annual Report (1993).
                              Designating property located on the north side of
CC Res. 1994-3    3-22-94     50S, west of 200W, owned by Mohr Construction
                              Company, Inc., as an economic revitalization
                              area.
BCC 1996-44       8-19-96     Pledging a portion of the economic development
                              income tax revenues.
BCC 1996-55       9-3-96      Amending BCC Ord. 1996-44 which pledged a portion
                              of the economic development income tax revenues.
BCC Res. 1997-21  6-2-97      Adopting the Howard County Overall Economic
                              Development Program (OEDP) Annual Report (1997).
CC Res. 2000-09   3-28-00     Designating an economic revitalization area
                              located in Lincoln Business Park.
                              Supporting a combined economic group to
Res. 2007-BCC-25  9-17-07     coordinate economic development activities in the
                              county.
                              Designating Howard County as a recovery zone
                              under Section 1400U-1 of the Internal Revenue
2010-BCC-20       6-21-10     Code for the purpose of issuing recovery zone
                              economic development bonds or recovery zone
                              facility bonds.
Res. 2012-BCCR-10 5-22-12     Approving an economic development agreement with
                              Wildcat Wind Farm II, LLC.
Res. 2012-HCCR-11 5-22-12     Approving an economic development agreement with
                              Wildcat Wind Farm II, LLC.
                              Wildcat Wind Farm II, LLC requesting approval of
Res. 2012-HCCR-12 5-22-12     a ten year real and personal property tax
                              deduction and designating the real property an
                              economic revitalization area.
                              Wildcat Wind Farm II, LLC requesting approval of
Res. 2012-HCCR-18 6-26-12     a ten year real and personal property tax
                              deduction and designating the real property an
                              economic revitalization area.
Res. 2019-HCCR-03 1-22-19     Preliminary resolution designating an economic
                              revitalization area for Merrell Bros., Inc.
Res. 2019 HCCR-5  2-26-19     Confirmatory resolution for the designation of an
                              economic revitalization area for Merrell Bros.
 
TABLE II: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date   Description
         Passed
BCC Res. 8-17-  Approving and ratifying an agreement between the City of Kokomo and the county
1987-7A  87     for cooperative action described in “Exhibit A.”
CC Res.  8-25-  Approving and ratifying an agreement between the City of Kokomo and the county
1987-7B  87     for cooperative action described in “Exhibit A.”
CC 1988- 8-2-88 Ratifying amendments to an agreement between the City of Kokomo and the county
16              for cooperative action described in CC Ord. 1988-16.
CC Res.  10-4-  Approving and ratifying an agreement between the City of Kokomo and Howard
1988-8   88     County for cooperative action for Center Road (U.S. 31 West).
BCC      10-4-  Authorizing execution of an interlocal agreement known as “An Interlocal
1988-27  88     Agreement Establishing an Interjurisdictional Agency to be Known as the Howard
                County Department of Civil Defense.”
BCC Res. 12-5-  Establishing a joint City-County Public Safety Telecommunication Center for the
—      88     City of Kokomo and Howard County.
CC Res.  1-24-  Approving and ratifying an agreement between the City of Kokomo and Howard
1989-2   89     County for cooperative action described in Exhibit “A.”
CC Res.         Approving and ratifying an agreement between the City of Kokomo and Howard
1991-14  - -91  County for a certain “Agreement for Improvement of Lincoln Road from James
                Drive to 350 Feet West of Webster Street.”
                Providing a procedure for municipalities to enter into interlocal cooperative
BCC —  3-9-92 agreements with county executives to prosecute joint highway construction,
                improvement and maintenance projects.
CC Res.  3-24-  Approving and ratifying an agreement between the City of Kokomo and the county
1992-3   92     known as Project RRP- K120(1) Alto Road at Central Railroad Crossing
                Reconstruction.
CC Res.         Approving and ratifying an agreement between the City of Kokomo and the county
1992-9   9-1-92 for the modernization and improvement of Dixon Road from Alto Road to Judson
                Road.
CC Res.  5-17-  Approving and ratifying an agreement between the City of Kokomo and the county
1993-12  93     to make certain improvements to Albright Road from Alto Road to Lincoln Road
                and Goyer Road from Boulevard to Carter Street.
                Approving an agreement between the City of Kokomo and the state and other
BCC Res. 1-31-  parties for interlocal cooperation for improvements to Markland Avenue and that
1994-7   94     portion of Goyer Road lying 500 feet north and 1,300 feet south of the
                intersection of Markland Avenue and Goyer Road.
                Approving an agreement between the City of Kokomo and the state and other
CC Res.  2-15-  parties for interlocal cooperation for improvements to Markland Avenue and that
1994-8   94     portion of Goyer Road lying 500 feet north and 1,300 feet south of the
                intersection of Markland Avenue and Goyer Road.
         2-15-  Approving an interlocal cooperation agreement the City of Kokomo and the county
CC Res.  94     known as the “Kokomo- Howard County Interlocal Cooperation Agreement No. 1994-
                1.”
         1-27-  Approving and ratifying an amended agreement between Howard County and the City
98-06    98     of Kokomo for cooperative action establishing a Joint City-County Public Safety
                Tele-Communications Center.
98-CC-20 3-24-  Approving and ratifying an interlocal governmental agreement between the City
         98     of Kokomo and Howard County for the Cannon-Goyer Open Ditch project.
1998-    11-2-  Adopting an amended and restated capital improvement plan and approving an
BCC-41   98     amendment to an agreement with the City of Kokomo specifying the intended uses
                of economic development income tax revenues.
CC 1999- 10-26- Approving and ratifying an agreement between the City of Kokomo and Howard
46       99     County for cooperative action to improve Alto Road and Park Road.
2004-    4-27-  Approving an interlocal agreement between the City of Kokomo and Howard County,
HCC-15   04     concerning Howard County’s utilization of the municipal Weights and Measures
                Inspector.
2004-    6-22-  Approving an interlocal agreement between Howard County and the New London
HCC-24   04     Conservancy District, concerning a $35,000 loan.
Res. CC- 5-17-  Approving a county and municipality joint highway maintenance agreement.
2005-10  05
Res. CC- 5-17-  Approving the Indiana Statewide Mutual Aid Agreement for the County Board of
2005-13  05     Health.
                Authorizes the execution of an emergency management, homeland security,
Res.            emergency medical services, law enforcement, fire, hazardous materials,
BCC-     11-21- communications, transportation, public health, animal health, human support
2005-32  05     services, public works, planning and information services, resource support and
                search and rescue “Mutual Interlocal Cooperation Agreements” with other local
                governments (and/or state agencies).
Res. CC- 12-13- Approving the proposal of the County Board of Commissioners with respect to the
2005-36  05     Joint Plan Commission Office Interlocal Agreement.
Res.     5-23-  Approving an amended Interlocal Agreement providing for the continued operation
2006-CC- 06     of a Joint Plan Commission Office.
10
Res.     6-15-  Approving an amendment to the Interlocal Cooperative Agreement between Howard
2006-    06     County and the City of Kokomo concerning the operation of the Joint Plan
BCC-12          Commission Office.
Res.     10-24- Approving an Interlocal Agreement with the Town of Greentown providing for the
2006-CC- 06     joint use and operation of a firing range.
43
Res.     4-28-  Approving the second amended Interlocal Cooperative Agreement on Joint Plan
2009-CC- 09     Commission Office.
5
Res.     10-26- Approving an Interlocal Cooperative Agreement between the Howard County, the
2010-    10     City of Kokomo and the Howard County Sheriff concerning the creation and
HCCR-20         operation of a consolidated communications center.
Res.     11-1-  Confirming the prior approval of the Interlocal Cooperative Agreement between
2010-    10     Howard County and the City of Kokomo concerning the creation and operation of a
BCCR-22A        consolidated communication center.
Res.     3-28-  Approving an interlocal agreement between Howard County and the City of Kokomo,
2017     17     Indiana concerning Howard County’s ordinance on smoke free air regulations.
HCCR-5
Res.     12-29-
2021-    21     Adoption of the County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan.
BCCR-19
               
 
TABLE III: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
BCC
Res.  11-17- Disposing of real estate known as Mendota Park, Running Water Park and Mohawk
1986- 86     Park used for park purposes.
13
CC
Res.  4-24-  Purchasing of six parcels of land for the Howard County Jail and Juvenile
1990- 90     Center.
7
BCC   6-26-  Authorizing purchase of a part of the West half of the Southeast Quarter of
1990- 90     Section 35, Township 24 North, Range 3 East for a new jail facility and
28           juvenile detention facility.
CC    12-18- Authorizing purchase of two parcels of land, Parcel I containing 12.766 acres
1990- 90     and Parcel II containing 9.49 acres.
43
BCC
Res.  5-6-91 Appropriating two parcels of land from Miller Packing Company, Inc., for
1991-        construction of a county jail and juvenile detention facility.
7
CC           Authorizing disposal of the Boys’ Shelter Care Home located at 531 East Taylor
Res.  5-25-  Street and the Girls’ Shelter Care Home located at 640 South Main Street in
1993- 93     Kokomo, Indiana.
15
BCC
Res.  8-30-  Authorizing disposal of the old Howard County Jail located at 623 South Berkley
1993- 93     Road.
28
BCC
Res.  10-4-  Authorizing sale of shelter care homes for less than 90 of appraised value.
1993- 93
32
BCC
Res.  11-22- Disposing of the old Howard County Jail located at 623 South Berkley Road.
1993- 93
36
BCC
Res.  12-13- Accepting proposal regarding disposition of the old Howard County Jail at 623
1993- 93     South Berkley Road.
36A
BCC          Authorizing execution of warranty deeds to Harold Richard Gilliam and Beverley
Res.  11-22- Grace Gilliam, and David D. Pickens and Linda L. Pickens to complete the
1993- 93     disposition and sale of the girls and boys shelter care homes.
37
BCC
Res.  7-1-96 Approving purchase of real estate for county road improvements for the Chrysler
1996-        Corporation Expansion Project.
25
BCC
Res.  9-3-96 Appropriating real estate for a public highway improvement known as Project M-
1996-        MG-K320(1).
35
BCC
Res.  10-21- Approving lease of the old Howard County Jail to Correctional Management
1996- 96     Company.
43
BCC
Res.  - -    Approving purchase of real estate for county road improvements related to the
1996-        Chrysler Corporation Expansion Project.
44
CC    8-20-  Approving a lease between the Howard County Redevelopment Authority and the
1996- 96     Howard County Redevelopment Commission.
46
CC
Res.  10-22- Approving lease of the old Howard County Jail to Correctional Management
1996- 96     Company.
46
BCC
Res.  11-4-  Approving purchase of real estate for county road improvements related to the
1996- 96     Chrysler Corporation Expansion Project.
47
CC    8-20-  Approving transfer of certain real estate to and the assignment of certain
1996- 96     right from the Howard County Redevelopment Commission.
47
BCC
Res.  - -    Approving purchase of real estate for county road improvements related to the
1996-        Chrysler Corporation Expansion Project.
49
BCC
Res.  - -    Approving purchase of real estate for county road improvements related to the
1996-        Chrysler Corporation Expansion Project.
55
BCC
Res.  4-7-97 Approving purchase of real estate for county road and drain improvements
1997-        related to the Chrysler Corporation Expansion Project.
13
BCC
Res.  6-2-97 Approving purchase of real estate for county road and drain improvements
1997-        related to the Chrysler Corporation Expansion Project.
22
CC           Authorizing Howard County Automotive Heritage Museum and Civil Center Building
1997- - -    Corporation to purchase land located at 1500N Reed Road in Kokomo, Indiana.
28
BCC          Authorizing Howard County Automotive Heritage Museum and Civic Center Building
Res.  7-21-  Corporation to issue its bonds and apply proceeds from to finance and
1997- 97     acquisition, construction, improvements and remodeling of certain real property
29           located at 1500N Reed Road, Kokomo, Indiana, and lease the real property to the
             county for use as an automotive heritage museum and civic center.
             Authorizing Howard County Automotive Heritage Museum and Civic Center Building
BCC          Corporation to issue its bonds and apply proceeds from to finance and
1997- - -97  acquisition, construction, improvements and remodeling of certain real property
34           located at 1500N Reed Road, Kokomo, Indiana and lease the real property to the
             county for use as an automotive heritage museum and civic center.
CC
Res.  8-26-  Declaring an interest in the possible purchase of real estate from Richard
1997- 97     Clarkson, such real estate being more particularly described in Exhibit A.
39
Res.
BCC   6-1-98 Ratifying the execution of a deed transferring certain real estate of Howard
1998-        County to the Howard County Redevelopment Commission.
22
Res.
1998- 8-17-  Appropriating real estate for a public highway improvement known as Project
BCC-  98     STP-K320(2).
30
Res.
1998- 8-17-  Appropriating real estate for a public highway improvement known as Project
BCC-  98     STP-RS-8334(2).
31
Res.
CC-   6-28-  Declaring an interest in buying a residential floodplain property.
2005- 05
14
Res.  12-9-  Declaring an interest in purchasing 2700 Dellwood Drive under Howard County’s
2008- 08     Mitigation Program.
CC-25
Res.
2011- 6-6-11 Authorizing transfer of property to the Ivy Tech Community College of Indiana.
BCCR-
12
Res.
2011- 10-3-  Authorizing offers to purchase flood mitigation properties.
BCCR- 11
33
Res.
2012- 4-16-  Authorizing transfer of tax sale parcels.
BCCR- 12
7
Res.
2012- 12-27- Accepting transfer of 80 parking spaces in the new parking garage from the City
BCCR- 12     of Kokomo.
38
Res.
2015- 1-5-15 Assigning 87 tax sale certificates to the City of Kokomo.
BCCR-
02
Res.
2015- 4-20-  Transferring 127 parcels of real estate to the City of Kokomo.
BCCR- 15
08
Res.
2018  12-3-  Exchange of property with the City of Kokomo regarding the portions of Wilson
BCCR- 18     Park.
27
Res.
2020  9-21-  Authorizing the sale of property located at 30 W. 400 S to the State of
BCCR- 20     Indiana.
09
Res.
2021  7-6-21 Purchasing Columbian Elementary School from the Kokomo School Corporation.
BCCR-
9
Res.
2022  7-18-  Authorizing transfer of property to Greater Kokomo Economic Development
BCCR- 22     Alliance, LLC.
15
Res.
2022  10-3-  Assigning to the city tax sale parcels.
BCCR- 22
20
Res.
2022  12-19- Assigning to the city tax sale parcels.
BCCR- 22
25
Res.
2023  11-6-  Authorizing transfer of property to Indiana Economic Development Corporation.
BCCR- 23
17
Res.         Establishing the intent to conduct a Commissioners’ sale to sell tax sale
2023  11-6-  certificates for properties that are severely delinquent in payment of property
BCCR- 23     taxes.
18
            
 
TABLE IV: THOROUGHFARE PLAN AMENDMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date    Description
No.   Passed
BCC
1986- 7-28-86 Deleting a 100-foot Parkway Thoroughfare between 50S at 800E and 850E.
14
BCC
1987- - -87   Deleting 150W between 450S and 500S.
7
BCC
1987- 6-22-87 Deleting a proposed 100 foot Parkway Thoroughfare between 100E and 300S.
13
BCC           Deleting a proposed 100 foot Parkway Thoroughfare through Lakeside Subdivision
1987- 8-24-87 at 621N and 600E.
16
BCC           Deleting a proposed 100 foot Parkway Thoroughfare through East Brook
1988- - -88   Subdivision between 180 and 200S.
5
BCC
1988- 9-6-88  Vacating a portion of Nancy Drive.
21
BCC   11-28-
1988- 88      Vacating two public alleys for 3959S and 135E.
29
BCC           Vacating Parkway Thoroughfare and vacating and relocated W. Carter Street at
1990- 2-26-90 the 4000 Block of West Carter Street.
5
BCC           Vacating 12-foot alley between 13 and 20 in original plat of Fairfield
1990- 3-26-90 (Oakford), at 1209E and 400S.
11
BCC           Vacation of section line right-of-way on 700W from 320S of the center line of
1990- 5-29-90 Honey Creek.
23
BCC
1990- 5-29-90 Vacation of half section line right- of-way on 50N from 450W to 480W.
24
BCC
1990- - -90   Vacating half section line right- of-way on 450S from 100W to 200W.
32A
BCC   11-26-  Vacating a portion of quarter section line right-of-way designed for proposed
1990- 90      250W located between 50S and 100S.
40
BCC           Vacation of quarter section line of proposed 450N and vacation of proposed
1990- - -90   beltway for property at 4470N and 200E.
41
BCC
1991- 4-22-91 Vacating portion of proposed parkway along 1150E at 300S.
10
BCC
1991- 6-3-91  Vacating 50 feet of thoroughfare of 1000W between 00NS and 50S.
13
BCC           Vacating 80 feet of thoroughfare along the south section line of Section 32
1991- 6-3-91  between 440W and 500W.
14
BCC           Reducing proposed right-of-way from 100 feet to 60 feet along 440W between Old
1991- 6-3-91  Sycamore Road and 50S.
15
BCC
1991- 9-23-91 Vacating alley at 4000S Block of 200W.
26
BCC           Vacating a portion of thoroughfare along West Markland Avenue between Berkley
1992- 1-27-92 Road and Dixon Road.
4
BCC
1992- 1-27-92 Vacating a portion of thoroughfare along 550E between 50S and 100S.
5
BCC           Vacating a portion of thoroughfare along 100E between 300S and approximately
1992- 1-27-92 3208S.
6
BCC
1992- 9-28-92 Vacating section line normally designated as 250E.
28
BCC   10-26-
1992- 92      Vacating section line normally designated as 900W.
32
BCC
1993- 2-22-93 Vacating quarter section right-of- way for proposed 650E.
4
BCC
1993- 2-22-93 Vacating of quarter section line along proposed 250W between 50S and 100S.
6
BCC
1993- - -93   Vacating half section line right- of-way for proposed 1250W.
15
BCC           Vacating the right- of-way easements for quarter section line for proposed 450S
1994- 2-28-94 and for section line for 800W.
14
BCC
1994- 2-28-94 Vacating section line right-of-way for proposed 100W.
13
BCC
1994- 2-28-94 Vacating right-of- way for section line for proposed 00NS.
15
BCC           Vacating right-of- way on quarter section line for proposed 450S for
1994- 4-25-94 development of Charles Rawls Subdivision.
23
BCC           Vacating right-of- way for proposed Matt Lane located in Walton Lake Estates
1994- 6-6-94  Subdivision.
27
BCC
1994- 6-6-94  Vacating right-of- ways on quarter section lines for proposed 150W and 350S.
28
BCC           Vacating right-of- ways on the quarter section lines for proposed 350S and for
1994- 6-6-94  proposed 150E for McWhorter Subdivision.
29
BCC           Vacating right-of- way on quarter section line for proposed 850W for Hawthorne
1994- 8-1-94  Major Subdivision.
31
BCC
1994- 9-6-94  Vacating right-of- way for portion of Main Street in Cassville, Indiana.
35
BCC           Vacating the right- of-way quarter section line for proposed 250N for Vonderahe
1994- 9-6-94  Estates Subdivision.
36
BCC
1994- 10-3-94 Vacating right-of- way for proposed 450E for Jane Isaac Subdivision.
42
BCC           Vacating the right- of-ways on quarter section lines for proposed 250N for
1994- 12-5-94 Ortman Acres Subdivision.
52
BCC           Vacating right-of- way for quarter section line for proposed 250E for Walton
1995- 4-3-95  Lake Estates Subdivision.
12
BCC           Vacating right-of- ways on section lines for proposed 50N and 65W for Fox Den
1995- 6-5-95  Subdivision.
20
BCC
1995- 6-5-95  Vacating right-of- way on quarter section line for proposed 300W.
21
BCC
1995- 7-31-95 Vacating right-of- ways on Cleveland Street and alleys in Center, Indiana.
26
BCC           Vacating a portion of the right-of-way of the thoroughfare on quarter section
1995- 9-25-95 line for proposed 650W for Rasmussen Subdivision.
35
BCC   10-23-  Vacating four right-of-ways on quarter section lines for Hampton Point
1995- 95      Subdivision.
39
BCC   10-23-
1995- 95      Vacating the right- of-ways on quarter section lines for 400N and 350N.
40
BCC
1996- 1-2-96  Vacating right-of- way on half section line for proposed 350S.
1
BCC           Vacating right-of- way on half section line for proposed 50S for Rick Shaw
1996- 1-2-96  Subdivision.
2
BCC           Vacating right-of- way on section line for proposed 600W for Greg Hill
1996- 2-5-96  Subdivision.
3
BCC
1996- 4-1-96  Removing section line for proposed 1200W.
17
BCC
1996- 4-1-96  Removing half section line for proposed 950W.
18
BCC
1996- 4-1-96  Removing half section line for proposed 550N.
19
BCC
1996- 6-3-96  Removing quarter section line for proposed 300S for Wester Ridge Subdivision.
29
BCC           Removing portion of half section line for proposed 1050W for Shaffer Homestead
1996- 7-1-96  Subdivision.
31
BCC
1996- 7-1-96  Vacating portion of the right-of-way For Lewis Street.
32
BCC
1996- 8-5-96  Vacating portion of the right-of-way for South Lewis Street.
32A
BCC           Vacating right-of- way for proposed 50N and to delete secondary feeder for
1996- 8-5-96  proposed 50N between 300W and 350W for 512 South Hickory Lane.
38
BCC
1996- 8-5-96  Deleting proposed parkway and half section line thoroughfare.
39
BCC
1996- 9-3-96  Vacating right-of- way for Main Street (1033E) in the Jerome, Indiana.
45
BCC           Removing proposed Primary Arterial Thoroughfare for 250S between 200E and
1996- 10-7-96 Brooke Road.
57
BCC
1996- 10-7-96 Removing proposed Secondary Feeder Thoroughfare for 550N between 500E and 600E.
58
BCC           Vacating the right- of-way for alley north of Lot 13 in George Lowry’s Addition
1996- 9-30-96 to the Town of Fairfield (Oakford) at 3893 South 128E.
59
BCC
1996- 1-6-97  Deleting thoroughfare for proposed 800W between 200N and 300N.
69
BCC
1996- 1-6-97  Deleting thoroughfare for proposed 100S between 650W and 680W.
70
BCC
1996- 1-6-97  Deleting the thoroughfare for proposed 300W between 275S and 300S.
71
BCC           Removing the proposed thoroughfares for 650W from 90S to proposed 100S; and for
1997- 4-21-97 100S from proposed 600W to 650W.
10
BCC
1997- 7-7-97  Deleting the primary feeder for proposed 450E between 50N and 00NS.
24
BCC           Vacating a portion of Carr Drive, west of cul-de-sac and adjacent to Lots 8 and
1997- 11-3-97 9 in Flowing Wells Estates Subdivision, at 2200 & 2201 Carr Drive.
45
BCC           Changing the proposed thoroughfare for 450S between 1000E and 1100E from a
1997- 12-1-97 secondary feeder (60 feet right-of-way) to a local street (50 foot right-of-
48            way).
1998- 3-2-98  Deleting primary feeder thoroughfare for proposed Co.Rd. 550 East between Co.
10            Rd. 200 South and Co. Rd. 300 South, for a distance of one mile.
BCC           Deleting the proposed primary feeder thoroughfare for Co. Rd. 300 South between
1998- 4-6-98  Co. Rd. 870 West and Co. Rd. 800 West, a distance of 0.75 miles.
18
BCC           Removing the primary feeder thoroughfare for proposed Co. Rd. 1200 West between
1998- 4-6-98  Co. Rd. 100 North (St. Rd. 22) and proposed Co. Rd. 00 North/South, a distance
19            of one mile.
BCC           Removing the secondary feeder thoroughfare for proposed County Road 450 South,
1998- 5-4-98  between County Road 400 West and County Road 350 West, a distance of ½ mile.
23
BCC           Deleting the proposed secondary feeder thoroughfare for proposed Co. Rd. 550
1998- 5-4-98  East between Co. Rd. 500 South and proposed Co. Rd. 450 South, a distance of
24            one half mile.
BCC           Removing the proposed secondary feeder thoroughfare for proposed Co. Rd. 150
1998- 6-15-98 West between Co. Rd. 250 South and Co. Rd. 300 South, for a distance of one
27            half mile.
BCC           Removing the proposed secondary feeder thoroughfare for proposed Co. Rd. 1050
1998- 11-2-98 East, between Co. Rds. 00 North/South and 100 North, for a distance of one
48            mile.
BCC           Removing the secondary feeder thoroughfare for proposed County Road 550 West,
1999- 4-5-99  between County Road 80 South and County Road 50 South for a distance of
11            approximately ½ mile.
BCC           Removing a portion of the secondary feeder Co. Rd. 450S between Co. Rd. 400E
1999- 8-2-99  and 450E.
32
BCC           Removing a portion of the secondary feeder Co. Rd. 300S between Co. Rd. 675W to
1999- 8-2-99  700W.
33
BCC           Removing a portion of the secondary feeder Co. Rd. 650S between Co. Rds. 650W
1999- 12-6-99 to 700W.
47
BCC
Res.  2-21-00 Confirming approximately one- half mile of road located west of 1250 West and
2000-         heretofore marked and maintained as County Road 160N.
07
BCC           Removing proposed thoroughfare for the secondary feeder proposed County Road
2000- 6-5-00  800W between County Road 00 north-south and 50S.
24
BCC           Removing proposed thoroughfare for the secondary feeder proposed County Road
2000- 6-5-00  300S between County Road 350W and 400W.
25
BCC           Removal of the secondary feeder thoroughfare for proposed County Road 450S,
2000- 7-3-00  between County Road 800E and State Road 213 for a distance of approximately one
32            mile.
BCC           Remove proposed secondary feeder thoroughfare for proposed Co. Rd. 50W (Webster
2000- 7-3-00  St.) between Co. Rd. 300N (Smith Rd.) and proposed Co. Rd. 350N.
33
—   10-2-00 Removing thoroughfare for the extension of 400W from 50S to 00NS.
—   10-2-00 Removing the proposed secondary feeder thoroughfare for proposed 550N, between
              00EW and 50E.
—   10-23-  Removing thoroughfare requirement for a portion of proposed thoroughfare for
      00      350S for a distance of 2640 feet west of 450W.
—   2-19-01 Deleting the proposed thoroughfare 350W between 200N and 300N.
BCC           Removal of proposed primary feeder thoroughfare, on a new alignment, connecting
2001- 5-7-01  1010E with 1030E, between 100S and 150S.
25
BCC           Remove secondary feeder thoroughfare for proposed 950E, north of 100N and south
2001- 5-7-01  of 200N, for a distance of approximately 1 mile.
26
BCC           Remove the proposed thoroughfare 250E, a secondary feeder, between 250N and
2001- 5-7-01  proposed 300N, a distance of 0.5 miles.
27
BCC           Removing the proposed Parkway thoroughfare paralleling the Wildcat Creek
2001- 8-6-01  between 00NS and 50S and between proposed 750E and proposed 800E, for a
39            distance of 0.5 miles.
BCC           Removing primary feeder thoroughfare for a proposed county road running north-
2001- 9-4-01  south between 00NS and 100N, along the section line between sections 34 and 35,
44            for a distance of approximately 1 mile.
BCC           Vacating a portion of the right-of-way on Harrison Street, as platted in
2002- 2-4-02  Simpson’s Second Addition to Center, Indiana.
05
BCC           Removing primary feeder for the proposed 870W between 00NS and 150S, and a
2002- 3-25-02 portion of 100S between 820W and 950W.
13
BCC
2002- 3-25-02 Removing primary feeder thoroughfare for proposed 900W between 200S and 250S.
14
BCC
2002- 6-3-02  Removing the primary feeder for proposed 850W between 400S and 500S.
23
BCC           Removing primary feeder connecting 100S with 150S between Windy Hill Court and
2002- 7-1-02  550W.
27
BCC
2002- 8-5-02  Removing primary feeder for proposed 250E between 50N and 100N.
31
BCC
2002- 9-3-02  Removing primary feeder for proposed 950E between 400S and 500S.
36
BCC
2002- 10-7-02 Removing primary feeder for proposed 400E between 500N and 600N.
44
BCC
2002- 11-4-02 Removing primary feeder between 550W and 600W along 100S.
52
2003-         Removing primary feeder for proposed County Road 150 South lying between County
BCC-  3-3-03  Road 750 West and County Road 820 West.
09
              Removing secondary feeder for proposed County Road 550 North running east-west
2003-         between County Road 1030 West and 1000 West, north of County Road 500 North and
BCC-  3-3-03  South of County Road 600 North, for distance of approximately 1/4 mile;
10            changing proposed thoroughfare right- of-way along County Road 1030 West to 80-
              foot secondary feeder between County Road 500 North and County Road 600 North.
              Vacating 8-foot easements platted between Lot 43 and 44 in Replat of Lots 46,
2003-         47, and 48 in Section 6, Lot 45 in Section 5, Lot 49 in Section 4 and Lots 38
BCC-  3-17-03 to 44 inclusive, in Replat of said Lots in Section 5 of Bookshire Subdivision,
12            beginning at east boundary of said lots to point 8 feet east of west boundary
              thereof.
2003-         Removing thoroughfares for County Road 350 South from 200 West to 250 West and
BCC-  8-4-03  250 West from 300 South to 400 South, Harrison Township.
30
2003-         Vacating 15-foot easement along east line of Lot 23 in Deer Knoll Planned Unit
BCC-  8-18-03 Development, Section 3, addition to Liberty Township, as recorded in Plat Book
37            9, Page 414.
2003-         Vacating 10-foot drainage and utility easement which separates Lot 24 and Lot
BCC-  9-2-03  25, Champagne Shores Subdivision, Section II, Harrison Township.
38
2003-         Vacating 15-foot easement in West Point Subdivision Section 1, Clay Township,
BCC-  10-6-03 between Lot 3A and Lot 2B and recorded in Plat Book 6 Page 113.
45
              Vacating alley beginning at northeast corner of Lot 5 in Town of Cassville,
2003-         being original plat of said town, as recorded in Recorder’s Plat Book 1, Page
BCC-  11-17-  110; thence east 12 feet to northwest corner of Lot 1 in said town; thence
51    03      south parallel with west line of said Lot 1 a distance of 132 feet; to
              Southwest corner of Lot 2 in said town; thence west 12 feet to southeast corner
              of Lot 6 in said town; then north 132 feet to place of beginning.
2003-         Vacating 12-foot easements or public ways along east line and south line of
BCC-  12-1-03 Lots 9 and 10 in West Liberty, Union Township, Greentown Indiana, as recorded
52            in Plat Book 1, Page 170.
2004-         Removing the thoroughfare for 180 South, between 500 West along the north bank
BCC-  6-7-04  of Little Wildcat Creek to 560 West, Harrison Township.
20
2004-         Removing the thoroughfare for 250 West, between 100 North and 200 North, Center
BCC-  6-7-04  Township.
21
2005-         Removing the proposed right-of- way along County Road 50 North between 600 West
BCC-  3-7-05  and 650 West, Clay Township.
12
2005-
BCC-  4-18-05 Vacating alleys in the town of West Liberty.
15
2005-         Vacating an easement, part of the Moors of Chippendale, Section 3, Harrison
BCC-  6-6-05  Township.
28
2005-
BCC-  9-6-05  Vacating an easement in Lot 13 in Southwood Subdivision to the City of Kokomo.
48
2005-         Removing thoroughfare for County Road 300 South between County Road 400 West
BCC-  10-3-05 and County Road 500 West, Harrison Township.
55
2005-         Removing proposed thoroughfare of 1000 West between County Road 200 South and
BCC-  10-3-05 250 South, Monroe Township.
56
2005-         Removing proposed secondary feeder thoroughfare 1150 East from 00NS to 100
BCC-  10-3-05 South, Union Township.
57
2005- 10-17-  Vacating a 12-foot wide utility easement lying on the north side of Lot 1 in
BCC-  05      the Lynn Griffin Minor Subdivision, Liberty Township.
61
2005- 12-19-  Removing thoroughfare for County Road 550 East between County Road 400 North
BCC-  05      and 300 North, Harrison Township.
71
2005- 12-19-  Vacating a 15-foot wide alley lying between Lots 13 and 14 in Highlawn Addition
BCC-  05      to the Town of West Middleton.
72
2006-         Vacating a 12-foot utility easement on the east and north side of Lot 3, Decker
BCC-  2-20–0Minor Subdivision, Harrison Township.
08
2006-         Vacating a utility easement located in Lakeside Subdivision of Lots 8 and 9,
BCC-  5-15-06 Howard Township.
16
2006-         Vacating utility and drainage easements on Lot 1 in the Rick Keck Subdivision,
BCC-  7-17-06 Taylor Township.
30
2006-         Vacating a utility easement on Lot 324 of Section 5 of Terrace Meadows
BCC-  8-21-06 Subdivision.
34
2006- 11-20-  Vacating a dedicated right-of- way, part of Lot 1 in Honningford Subdivision,
BCC-  05      Honey Creek Township.
45
2007-         Vacating a public way 40 feet in width and 132 feet in length, south of and
BCC-  3-5-07  contiguous to Lot 81 in the M.R. Wickersham’s Addition to the Town of New
11            London.
2007-         Vacating a public way, east 33 feet of plotted Locust Street lying adjacent to
BCC-  4-16-07 Parcel ID #s 34-11-11-331-001. 000-016.
15
2008-
BCC-  6-2-08  Vacating Railroad Street in the Town of Hemlock.
16
Res.
BCC-  11-17-  Extending the U.S. 31 Freeway Moratorium.
2008- 08
23
Res.
BCC-  12-15-  Extending the U.S. 31 Freeway Moratorium.
2009- 09
26
2010- 1-19-10 Vacating a 12-foot easement along the south side of Lot 1 in King’s Acre
BCC-2         Subdivision.
2013- 12-16-
BCCO- 13      Vacating the following:
29
              1. A public way 40 feet in width and 132 feet in length between Lots 103 and
             104 in M.R. Wickersham’s Addition to the Town of New London, Howard County,
              Indiana.
              2. A public way 40 feet in width and 132 feet in length between lots 105 and
            106 in M.R. Wickersham’s Addition to the Town of New London, Howard County,
              Indiana.
              3. A public way 10 feet in width running from the south line of Lot 103
            extended east 10 feet to the south line of Lot 107 extended east 10 feet and
              contiguous to the east end of Lots 104, 105, 106, and 107, in M.R. Wickersham’s
              Addition to the Town of New London, Howard County, Indiana.
2017-         Vacating an easement that is a 30 feet wide and 160 feet long right- of-way of
BCCO- 11-21-  the entire west side of Lot Number 1 in the Evans Minor Subdivision, Honey
06    16      Creek Township, and part of the northeast quarter of Section 19, Township 23
              North, Range 3 East, Honey Creek Township.
2018-         Vacating a right- of-way easement and the parallel 25- foot minimum building
BCCO- 4-2-18  line in Kuhn Minor Subdivision, Ervin Township.
11
              Vacating an alley in Union Township described as all that portion of a public
2018-         way dedicated by plat as an alley situated to the south of Lots 21 and 22 in
BCCO- 7-2-18  the Original Plat of the Town of Jerome, Union Township, as recorded in
20            Recorder’s Plat Book 1, page 135 and north of Lots 15 and 16 in the Original
              Plat of the Town of Jerome, as recorded in Recorder’s Plat Book 1, page 135.
              Vacating a public way described as follows: all that portion of a 50- foot wide
2018-         right-of- way situated to the west of and adjacent to the west boundary of lot
BBCO- 6-18-18 number 37 in Windwood Park subdivision section 3 and extending 197.5 feet from
23            the north boundary to the south boundary of the above- described lot owned by
              petitioners Anthony and Davina Hansen.
Res.
2018  2-19-18 Reaffirming three easements identified as follows:
BCCR-
3
            1. Forty-two feet from 2365 S 750 W to 3364 S 750 W;
            2. Twenty-eight feet from 3309 S 750 W to 780 W 330 S; and
            3. Thirty-two feet from 598 N West St. (Russiaville) to 3528 S 775 W.
Res.
2019  5-20-19 Granting a utility easement to Indiana-American Water Company over a parcel of
BCCR-         property, No. 34- 04- 22-300-004.000-02 2, consisting of 2.670 acres.
10
2021- 10-18-  Vacating easements in Timberly Place P.U.D. Liberty Township, Howard County,
BCCO- 21      Indiana.
41
BCCO- 4-18-22 Vacating easements in lots numbered 1 and 2 in Decker’s Minor Subdivision,
20            Harrison Township, Howard County, Indiana.
BCCO- 4-18-22 Vacating easements in lot numbered 1 as shows on the plat of Jim Miller Minor
21            Subdivision, Howard County, Indiana.
2022-         Vacating easement in Champagne Shores Subdivision, Harrison Township, Howard
BCCO- 9-6-22  County, Indiana.
40
2022  12-19-  Vacating a portion of Sugar Trace located in Sugar Mill, Section 3, an addition
BCCO- 22      to Harrison Township, Howard County, Indiana.
58
             
 
TABLE V: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
BCC 1990-9   3-26-90     Amending the Zoning Map by the vacation of part of
                         Sugar Mill Subdivision, Section 1, Harrison Township.
                         Changing the zoning classification at 1900 Block of
BCC 1991-5   3- -91      East Markland Avenue from R-1 (Residential) to B-2
                         (Business).
BCC 1991-9   4-22-91     Changing the zoning classification at 0241 North 300W
                         from A-1 (Agriculture) to C-1 (Commercial).
BCC 1991-11  4-22-91     Changing the zoning classifications at 288 Nancy Drive
                         from R-1 (Residential) to B-1 (Business).
BCC 1991-20  7-22-91     Changing the zoning classification at 3618 South Dixon
                         Road from A-1 (Agriculture) to B-2 (General Business).
BCC 1991-24  8-26-91     Changing the zoning classification at 2097 Alto Road
                         West from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
BCC 1991-27  9-23-91     Changing the zoning classification for Lot 3 and 22B
                         from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
BCC 1991-28  9-23-91     Changing the zoning classification at 3767 East 300S
                         from A-1 (Agriculture) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 1919 East
BCC 1991-32  11-25-91    Markland Avenue from B-1 (Local Business) and R-1
                         (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2301 East
BCC 1991-33  11-25-91    Markland Avenue from B-1 (Local Business) and R-1
                         (Residential) from B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2464 South 750W
BCC 1991-34  11-25-91    from R-1 (Residential) and A-1 (Agriculture) to C-1
                         (Commercial).
BCC 1991-39  12-23-91    Changing the zoning classification at 4602 West 100N
                         from A-1 (Agriculture) to C-1 (Commercial).
BCC 1991-40  12-23-91    Changing the zoning classification at 2233 South 465W
                         from R-1 (Residential) to A-1 (Agriculture).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 3400 Block of
BCC 1992-3   - -         West Lincoln Road from R-1 (Residential) to B-2
                         (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2900 Block of
BCC 1992-8   - -         East Markland Avenue from R-1 (Residential) to B-2
                         (General Business).
BCC 1992-12  4-22-92     Changing the zoning classification at 1241 East 400S
                         from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 0087, 0127 and
BCC 1992-13  4-27-92     0211 South 440W from A-1 (Agriculture) to R-1
                         (Residential).
BCC 1992-17  6-1-92      Changing the zoning classification at 2233 South 465W
                         from R-1 (Residential) to A-1 (Agriculture).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2980 West
BCC 1992-23  - -         Sycamore Road from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General
                         Business).
BCC 1992-26  9-28-92     Changing the zoning classification at 1985 West 400S
                         from A-1 (Agriculture) to R-1 (Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 6539 and 6583
BCC 1992-27  9-28-92     West 400S from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General
                         Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2605 Jefferson
BCC 1992-38  1-4-93      Street from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General
                         Business) and C-1 (Commercial).
BCC 1993-10  3-22-93     Changing the zoning classification at 11 West Alto
                         Road from R-1 (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at the 8100 Block
BCC 1993-20  6-28-93     of Deer Creek Road from A-1 (Agriculture) and FP
                         (Flood Plain) to R-1 (Residential) and FP (Flood
                         Plain).
BCC 1993-29  - -93       Changing the zoning classification at 1034 South Goyer
                         Road from R-1 (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2409 and 2411
BCC 1993-30  - -93       East Markland Avenue from R-1 (Residential) to B-1
                         (Local Business).
BCC 1993-39  12-27-93    Changing the zoning classification at 4230 North 00EW
                         from C-1 (Commercial) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 317 West Alto
BCC 1993-40  12-27-93    Road from R-1 (Residential) and A-1 (Agriculture) to
                         B-2 (General Business).
BCC 1994-41  10-3-94     Changing the zoning classification at 2401 East Foster
                         Street from R-1 (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2509 East
BCC 1994-46  11-7-94     Markland Avenue from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General
                         Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 1626 East North
BCC 1994-47  - -         Street from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General
                         Business).
BCC 1994-49  - -         Changing the zoning classification at 4112 North 00EW
                         from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 1009 South Emery
BCC 1994-50  12-5-94     Street from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General
                         Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2605 East
BCC 1994-51  12-5-94     Markland Avenue from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General
                         Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 1004 and 1012
BCC 1995-23  7-6-95      South Clark Street from R-1 (Residential) to B-2
                         (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 1719 and 1720
BCC 1996-12  - -96       North Faith Road from B-1 (Local Business) to B-2
                         (General Business).
BCC 1996-26  5-6-96      Changing the zoning classification at 2755 Commerce
                         Drive from B-1 (Agriculture) to C-1 (Commercial).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2850 East
BCC 1996-56  10-7-96     Markland from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General
                         Business).
BCC 1996-63  11-4-96     Changing the zoning classification at 2389 South 200W
                         from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at the southwest
BCC 1997-4   3-3-97      corner of 300S (Center Road) and 150E from A-1
                         (Agriculture) to R-1 (Residential) and B-1 (Local
                         Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at the 3500 Block
BCC 1997-23  - -97       of South Dixon Road from A-1 (Agriculture) to B-2
                         (General Business).
BCC 1997-42  10-6-97     Changing the zoning classification at 1650 West 300S
                         from A-1 (Agriculture) to R-1 (Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 613 & 615 West
BCC 1997-43  10-6-97     Lincoln Road from R-1 (Residential) to B-1 (Local
                         Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 1282 West Co.
1997-55      1-5-98      Rd. 300 South from B-1 (Local Business) to B-2
                         (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 1924 West Co.
1998-03      2-2-98      Rd. 300 South from A-1 (Agriculture) to R-1
                         (Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2943 West Co.
1998-07      5-4-98      Rd. 100 South from A-1 (Agriculture) to B-1 (Local
                         Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2825 West Co.
1998-08      3-2-98      Rd. 100 South from A-1 (Agriculture) to R-1
                         (Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2618 and 2620
1998-09      3-2-98      South Albright Road from R-1 (Residential) to B-1
                         (Local Business).
BCC-1998-16  4-6-98      Changing the zoning classification at 1003 S. Clark
                         Street from R-1 (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
BCC-1998-17  4-6-98      Changing the zoning classification at 703 N. Touby
                         Pike from R-1 (Residential) to C-1 (Commercial).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 2801 and 2815 E.
BBC 1998-35  8-3-98      Markland Ave. from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General
                         Business).
BBC 1998-36  8-3-98      Changing the zoning classification at 302 S. Reed Rd.
                         from B-2 (General Business) to C-1 (Commercial).
BBC 1998-40  8-31-98     Changing the zoning classification at 2719 S. Webster
                         St. from R-1 (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 125 and 135 N.
1998-BCC-46  11-2-98     Dixon Road from R-1 (Residential) to B-1 (Local
                         Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification in the 2600 Block
BCC 1998-47  11-2-98     of North Washington Street from R-1 (Residential) to
                         B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 3000 West
BCC 1998-54  12-7-98     Sycamore Street from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General
                         Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 1327 East Co.
BCC 1999-10  4-5-99      Rd. 200 North from R-1 (Residential) to I-1
                         (Industrial).
                         Changing the zoning classification at the 1600 block
BCC 1999-14  5-3-99      of North Reed Road (U.S. #31 By-Pass) from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         located in a fractional part of the southwest quarter
BCC 1999-36  9-7-99      of Section 13, Township 24 north, range 4 east,
                         containing 73.037 acres more or less from A-1
                         (Agriculture) and R-1 (Residential) to C-1
                         (Commercial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
BCC 2000-01  1-3-00      located at 2828 East Markland Avenue from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
BCC 2000-02  1-3-00      located at 811 East Co. Rd. 400S from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
BCC-2000-08  3-6-00      located at the 100 block of West Alto Road from A-1
                         (Agricultural) and R-1 (Residential) to C-1
                         (Commercial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for Lots 117 and
BCC 2000-09  3-6-00      118 in Kenwood Gardens Addition at 933 and 935 South
                         Lewis Street from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General
                         Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
BCC 2000-10  3-6-00      located more or less at 3025 West Jefferson Street
                         from R-1 (Residential) to C-1 (Commercial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
BCC 2000-30  7-3-00      located at 2800 block of E. Southway Boulevard from A-
                         1 (Agricultural) to C-1 (Light Industrial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
BCC 2000-31  7-3-00      located at 2980 West Sycamore from R-1 (Residential)
                         to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
BCC 2000-34  7-3-00      located at 2828 East Markland Avenue from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
BCC 2000-35  7-3-00      located at 1201 West Alto Road from R-1 (Residential)
                         to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 250 West Co.
—          8-7-00      Road 300N from C-1 (Light Industrial) to R-1
                         (Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for 1501 through
—          8-7-00      1935 S. Dixon and 2400 W. Boulevard from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at the 2000 block
—          10-23-00    of West Co. Road 400S from A-1 (Agricultural) to B-2
                         (General Business).
BCC 2001-12  3-5-01      Changing the zoning classification at 2145 East CR
                         00NS from R-1 (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
BCC 2001-13  3-5-01      Changing the zoning classification at 1013 S. Lewis
                         Street from R-1 (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
BCC 2001-23  5-7-01      Changing the zoning classification at 2110 W. Alto
                         Road from A-1 (Agricultural) to B-1 (Local Business).
BCC 2001-24  5-7-01      Changing the zoning classification at 2046 W. Alto
                         Road from A-1 (Agricultural) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at the 3301 block
BCC 2001-43  9-4-01      of S. Dixon Road from A-1 (Agricultural) to B-2
                         (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 3999 South Co.
—          10-1-01     Road 500E from A-1 (Agricultural) to B-1 (Local
                         Business).
BCC 2002-22  6-3-02      Changing the zoning classification at 2229 East Rd.
                         00NS from R-1 (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 3025 W.
BCC 2002-32  8-2-02      Jefferson from C-1 (Light Industrial) to R-1
                         (Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 1805 E. Sycamore
                         St. from R-1 (Residential), B-2 (General Business),
BCC 2002-35  9-3-02      FW/R-1 (Floodway/Residential) and FF/R-1 (Floodway
                         Fringe/Residential) to B-2 (General Business), FW/B-2
                         (Floodway/General Business) and FF/B-2 (Floodway
                         Fringe/General Business).
BCC 2002-43  10-7-02     Changing the zoning classification at 4950 East 400S
                         from A-1 (Agricultural) to B-1 (Local Business).
BCC 2002-51  11-4-02     Changing the zoning classification at 1013 S. Lewis
                         from B-1 (Local Business) to B-2 General Business.
BCC 2002-56  12-2-02     Changing the zoning classification at 1865 W. Zartman
                         Rd. from A-1 (Agricultural) to R-1 (Residential).
BCC 2002-57  12-2-02     Changing the zoning classification at 1881 W. Zartman
                         Rd. from A-1 (Agricultural) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification at 3001 & 3005 N.
BCC 2002-58  12-2-02     Washington St. from A-1 (Agricultural) & R-1
                         (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2003-BCC-13  4-7-03      located at 1220 South Goyer Road from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2003-BCC-21  6-2-03      located at 4802 West Road 250 South from R-1
                         (Residential) to C-1 (Light Industrial).
                         Changing the zoning classification of property located
2003-BCC-31  8-4-03      at 671 East Co. Road 400 South from R-1 & A-1 to B-2
                         (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification of property located
2003-BCC-32  8-4-03      at 2211 West Alto Road from A-1 (Agricultural) to B-2
                         (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification of property located
2003-BCC-41  10-6-03     at 2322 South Co. Road 750 West from R-1 (Residential)
                         to B-1 (Local Business).
2003-BCC-42  10-6-03     Changing the zoning classification of property located
                         at 3240 Weston Place from A-1 (Agricultural) to R-1
                       (Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification of property located
2003-BCC-43  10-6-03     at 323 South Road 00 EW Road from R-1 & A-1 to B-2
                         (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification of property located
2003-BCC-44  10-6-03     at 300 West and Boulevard Street from B-1 (Local
                         Business) to R-1 (Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2004-BCC-02  1-5-04      located at 3020 West Jefferson from R-1 (Residential)
                         and A-1 (Agricultural) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2004-BCC-12  4-5-04      located at 4084 North Co. Road 00EW from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2004-BCC-19  6-7-04      located at 311 West Co. Road 300 South from A1
                         (Agricultural)/A1FP (Agricultural/Floodplain) to R1
                         (Residential)/R1FP (Residential/Floodplain).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2004-BCC-25  7-6-04      located at 2906 West Jefferson Street from A-1
                         (Agricultural) and R-1 (Residential) to R-1
                         (Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2004-BCC-42  12-6-04     located at 2848 East Markland Avenue from A-1
                         (Agricultural) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2005-BCC-06  2-7-05      located at 3718 North County Road 700 East from A-1
                         (Agricultural) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2005-BCC-14  4-4-05      located at 2040 West Alto Road from B-1 (Local
                         Business) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2005-BCC-16  5-2-05      located at 4610 North County Road 600 East from A-1
                         (Agricultural) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2005-BCC-24  6-6-05      located at 1717 North Faith Road, from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2005-BCC-25  6-6-05      located at 490 North County Road 600 West from A-1
                         (Agricultural) to R-1 (Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2005-BCC-26  6-6-05      located at 3437 West Sycamore from R-1 (Residential)
                         to A-1 (Agricultural).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2005-BCC-36  8-3-05      located at 2101, 2105 and 2109 South Dixon Road from
                         R-1 (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2005-BCC-63  11-7-05     located at 2007 East County Road 00NS from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2005-BCC-66  12-5-05     located at 2113 and 2201 South Dixon Road from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2006-BCC-38  10-2-06     located at 2001 West County Road 400 South from A-1
                         (Agricultural) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2006-BCC-39  10-2-06     located at 3021 South County Road 400 East from A-1
                         (Agricultural) to RS1 (Residential Suburb 1).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2006-BCC-40  10-2-06     located at 2126 West County Road 400 South from A-1
                         (Agricultural) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2007-BCC-10  3-5-07      located at 4379 West County Road 250 South from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2007-BCC-14  4-16-07     located at 4974 West County Road 250 South from A-1
                         (Agricultural) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2007-BCC-18  5-7-07      located at 3532 East County Road 400 South from A-1
                         (Agricultural) to R-1 (Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2007-BCC-23  6-4-07      located at 2500 East Markland Avenue from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2007-BCC-27  7-2-07      located at 2722 East Boulevard from R-1 (Residential)
                         to C-1 (Light Industrial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2007-BCC-33  8-6-07      located at 1935 South Dixon Road from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2007-BCC-39  10-1-07     located at 341 South County Road 00EW from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2008-BCC-05  2-4-08      located at 2409 East Markland Avenue from B-1 (Local
                         Business) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2008-BCC-32  11-3-08     located at 3618 South Dixon Road from B-2 (General
                         Business) to C-1 (Light Industrial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2008-BCC-33  11-3-08     located at 2333 West Markland Avenue from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2008-BCC-35  12-1-08     located at 76 North County Road 300 East from A-1
                         (Agricultural) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2009-BCC-09  3-2-09      located at 3039 South County Road 150 East from A-1
                         (Agricultural) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2009-BCC-17  6-1-09      located at 5794 North County Road 00EW from B-1 (Local
                         Business) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2009-BCC-29  10-10-09    located at 3437 West Sycamore Street from A-1
                         (Agricultural) to B-2 (General Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2009-BCC-30  10-5-09     located at 2296 South County Road 750 West from R-1
                         (Residential) to B-1 (Local Business).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2009-BCC-39  1-4-10      located at 3211 West Jefferson Street from R-1
                         (Residential) to C-1 (Light Industrial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as the east half of the Southwest Quarter
2012-BCCO-15 6-4-12      Section 25, Township 24 North, Range 1 East,
                         containing 80 acres from AG (Agricultural) to PR
                         (Parks and Recreation).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2012-BCCO-20 9-4-12      located in part of the Southeast Quarter of Section
                         32, Township 24 North, Range 2 East, Ervin Township
                         from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2012-BCCO-21 9-4-12      described as a part of the Southeast quarter of
                         Section 18, Township 24 North, Range 3 East, from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2012-BCCO-22 9-4-12      described as a part of the west half of Section 16,
                         Township 24 North, Range 5 East Liberty Township, from
                         AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the Southeast Quarter of Section
2014-BCCO-09 4-7-14      12, Township 24 North, Range 3 East from AG
                         (Agricultural) to C1 (Small to Medium General
                         Commercial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the Southwest quarter of Section
2014-BCCO-23 9-2-14      7, Township 23 North, Range 3 East, Harrison Township,
                         at 1594 S.W. Russiaville, from AG (Agricultural) to R1
                         (Very Low Density Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northwest quarter of Section
2015-BCCO-15 6-1-15      31, Township 24 North, Range 5 East, Liberty Township,
                         at 60 North 600 East Greentown, from AG (Agricultural)
                         to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southeast quarter of Section
2015-BCCO-19 8-3-15      12, Township 22 North, Range 5 East, Union Township,
                         at 11678 East 200 South Greentown, from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of Section
2015-BCCO-26 9-8-15      3, Township 24 North, Range 5 East, Liberty Township,
                         at 8919 East 600 North Greentown, from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southeast quarter of Section
2015-BCCO-27 9-8-15      13, Township 2 North, Range 2 East, Monroe Township,
                         at 6185 West 250 South Russiaville, from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southwest quarter of Section
2015-BCCO-26 9-8-15      33, Township 24 North, Range 5 East, Liberty Township
                         at 614 West Main Street, Greentown, from RR (Rural
                         Residential) and R-1 (Residential) to C-1 (Small to
                         Medium Commercial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southeast quarter of Section
2016-BCCO-11 4-4-16      35, Township 23 North, Range 2 East, Honey Creek
                         Township, at 7050 W 600 S Russiaville, from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of Section
2016-BCCO-22 7-5-16      23, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, Howard Township,
                         at 4802 E 250 S, Kokomo, from AG (Agricultural) to RR
                         (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northwest quarter of Section
2016-BCCO-23 7-5-16      6, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, Howard Township,
                         at 5606 N 00 EW, Kokomo, from C2 (Medium to Large
                         Scale General Commercial) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as the east one-half of the southeast
2016-BCCO-24 7-5-16      quarter of Section 7, Township 24 North, Range 3 East,
                         Clay Township, at 4337 N 500 W, Kokomo, from AG
                         (Agricultural) to IA (Intense Agricultural).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as a fractional part of the northeast
2016-BCCO-31 9-6-16      quarter of Section 27, Township 24 North, Range 4
                         East, Howard Township, at 1735 N 400 E, Kokomo, from
                         AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southeast quarter of the
2017-BCCO-1  1-3-17      northeast quarter of Section 29, Township 24 North,
                         Range 3 East, Clay Township, at 1555 N 400 W, from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southwest quarter of Section
2017-BCCO-9  3-6-17      24, Township 23 North, Range 2 East, Honey Creek
                         Township, at 6852 and 6884 West 400 South, from RR
                         (Rural Residential) to I-1 (Low Intensity Industrial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the north half of the southeast
2017-BCCO-13 4-17-17     quarter of Section 14, Township 23 North, Range 5
                         East, Union Township, at 10900 East 280 South, from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northwest quarter of Section
2017-BCCO-16 5-1-17      31, Township 24 North, Range 5 East, Liberty Township,
                         at 6205 East 100 North, from AG (Agricultural) to PD-
                         RR (Planned Unit Devleopment - Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southwest quarter of Section
2017-BCCO-21 6-5-17      26, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, Howard Township
                         at 5260 East 100 North), from AG (Agricultural) to RR
                         (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northwest quarter of Section
2017-BCCO-26 7-3-17      16, Township 23 North, Range 3 East, Harrison
                         Township, at 3642 West 250 South, from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of Section
2017-BCCO-27 7-3-17      6, Township 24 North, Range 3 East, Howard Township,
                         at 534 E East 550 Nouth, from AG (Agricultural) to RR
                         (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southeast quarter of Section
2017-BCCO-32 9-5-17      10, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, Taylor Township,
                         at 3702 East 200 South, from AG (Agricultural) to RR
                         (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the north half of the west half
2017-BCCO-40 11-6-17     of the southeast quarter of Section 4, Township 23
                         North, Range 5 East, Liberty Township, at 622 South
                         850 East, from AG (Agricultural) to IS
                         (Institutional).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southwest quarter of Section
2018-BCCO-7  3-5-18      6, Township 23 North, Range 2 East, Ervin Township, at
                         11802 West 500 North, from AG (Agricultural) to RR
                         (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of Section
2018-BCCO-8  3-5-18      14, Township 23 North, Range 2 East, Monroe Township,
                         at 7376 West 220 South, from AG (Agricultural) to RR
                         (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northwest quarter of Section
2018-BCCO-15 5-7-18      25, Township 23 North, Range 2 East, Honey Creek
                         Township at 6583 W 400S, from C2 (Medium to Large
                         Scale General Commercial) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the east half of the southwest
2018-BCCO-16 5-7-18      quarter of Section 20, Township 23 North, Range 6
                         East, Union Township, at 3732 South 1330 East from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of the
2018-BCCO-33 10-1-18     southwest quarter of Section 14, Township 23 North,
                         Range 2 East, Monroe Township, at 2673 and 2679 South
                         750 West from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural
                         Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southwest quarter of Section
2018-BCCO-37 12-3-18     15, Township 24 North, Range 3 East, Clay Township, at
                         3186 N 300 West from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural
                         Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the west half of the northwest
2019-BCCO-1  1-22-19     quarter of Section 24, Township 23 North, Range 4
                         East, Taylor Township, at 3358 S 500 E from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southwest quarter of the
2019-BCCO-11 5-6-19      southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 24 North,
                         Range 1 East, Monroe Township, at 12900, 12850, and
                         12778 W 00 NS from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural
                         Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the east half of the northeast
2019-BCCO-20 8-5-19      quarter of Section 35, Township 24 North, Range 2
                         East, Ervin Township, at 835 N 700 West from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the east half of the northeast
2019-BCCO-21 8-5-19      quarter of Section 32, Township 24 North, Range 3
                         East, Clay Township, at 712 N 480 West from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southeast quarter of Section
2019-BCCO-40 12-2-19     32, Township 24 North, Range 5 East, Liberty Township,
                         at 7767 E 50 North from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural
                         Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of Section
2019-BCCO-41 12-2-19     34, Township 24 North, Range 5 East, Liberty Township,
                         at 9525 East 100 North from AG (Agricultural) to RR
                         (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southeast quarter of Section
2019-BCCO-42 12-2-19     28, Township 24 North, Range 3 East, Center Township,
                         at 3248 West 100 North from AG (Agricultural) to RR
                         (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for part of
                         Ashenfelter Subdivision Lot 1, Ervin Township,
2019-BCCO-46 12-27-19    containing 1.87 acres, more or less, subject to
                         highway right-of-way; 1 lot at 11900 West 350 North
                         from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as Lots 1 and 2 in Clark Subdivision and
                         Lots 1 and 2 in the Long Subdivision, containing 31.96
2020-BCCO-5  2-3-20      acres, more or less, subject to highway right- of-way;
                         1 lot, Monroe Township, Kokomo, Howard County at 10892
                         West 100 South from RR (Rural Residential) to AG
                         (Agricultural).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northwest quarter of Section
2020-BCCO-6  2-3-20      15, Township 24 North, Range 5 East, Liberty Township,
                         Howard County at 9041 E 400 N from AG (Agricultural)
                         to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southwest quarter of Section
2020-BCCO-27 7-6-20      34, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, Howard Township,
                         Howard County at 3058 East 00 North South from AG
                         (Agricultural) to I1 (Low Intensity Industrial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of Section
2020-BCCO-28 7-6-20      5, Township 23 North, Range 3 East, Harrison Township,
                         Howard County at 246 South 440 West from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as a part of the southeast quarter of the
                         Northeast Quarter of Section 18, Township 23 North,
2020-BCCO-29 7-6-20      Range 3 East of the Second Principal Meridian,
                         Harrison Township, Howard County at 5256 West 250
                         South from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural
                         Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as the north half of the north half of the
                         southwest quarter of Section 1, Township 24 North,
                         Range 4 East, except ten acres off the east end, a
                         tract excepted of equal width and 40 rod square, which
                         makes the tract hereby described 30 acres, more or
                         less. Also, the following described real estate
2020-BCCO-30 7-6-20      located in Howard County: ten acres of even width off
                         the east end of the north half of the north half of
                         the southwest quarter of Section 1, Township 24 North,
                         Range 4 East, Howard Township, Kokomo, containing 40
                         acres more or less subject to highway right- of-way, 2
                         lots, Howard Township, Howard County at 5254 North 500
                         East from AG (Agricultural) to IS (Institutional
                         Uses).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northwest quarter of Section
2020-BCCO-37 9-8-20      36, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, Howard Township
                         at 5388 East 50 North from AG (Agricultural) to RR
                         (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter, Section
2020-BCCO-47 12-7-20     10, Township 23 North, Range 5 East, Union Township,
                         Howard County at 9899 East 100 South from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as the south half of the northwest quarter
2020-BCCO-48 12-2-20     of Section 22, Township 24 North, Range 3 East,
                         containing 80 acres more or less at 2570 North 300
                         West from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of Section
2020-BCCO-49 12-7-20     35, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, Howard Township
                         at 4692 East 50 North from AG (Agricultural) to RR
                         (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter, Section
2020-BCCO-50 12-7-20     25, Township 23 North, Range 2 East, Honey Creek
                         Township, Howard County at 4390 South 650 West from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of Section
2021-BCCO-4  1-27-21     5, Township 23 North, Range 3 East, part of the
                         southwest quarter of Section 34, Township 24 North,
                         Range 5 East, Liberty Township, Howard County from RR
                         (Rural Residential) to AC (Agricultural Commercial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2021-BCCO-5  1-27-21     described as 19.91 acres off the east side of land at
                         7535 West 00 North South from RR (Rural Residential)
                         to AC (Agricultural Commercial).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southeast quarter of Section
2021-BCCO-12 3-11-21     16, Township 24 North, Range 3 East, Clay Township,
                         Kokomo, Howard County at 3618 West 300 North from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as a part of the south half of the northeast
                         quarter of Section 8, Township 24 North, Range 4 East
2021-BCCO-15 3-31-21     of the second principal meridian, Howard County and a
                         part of the south half of the northeast quarter of
                         Section 8, Township 24 North, Range 4 East of the
                         second principal meridian, Howard County from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southwest quarter, Section
2021-BCCO-16 3-31-21     27, Township 23 North, Range 2 East, Honey Creek
                         Township, Howard County at 4678 South 870 West from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southeast quarter of the
2021-BCCO-18 4-28-21     northeast quarter of Section 25, Township 23 North,
                         Range 4 East in Taylor Township, Howard County at 4249
                         South 600 East from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural
                         Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southwest quarter of Section
2021-BCCO-21 6-2-21      20, Township 23 North, Range 3 East, Harrison
                         Township, Howard County at 3588 South 500 West from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as a part of the southeast quarter of the
2021-BCCO-30 7-28-21     northeast quarter of Section 18, Township 24 North,
                         Range 3 East of the second principal meridian, Howard
                         County at 3553 N 500 West from AG (Agricultural) to RR
                         (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as the east half of the southwest quarter of
2021-BCCO-34 8-19-21     Section 25, Township 24 North, Range 1 East,
                         containing 80 acres, more or less, in Howard County
                         from PR (Parks & Recreation) to AG (Agricultural).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southwest quarter of Section
2021-BCCO-35 8-19-21     4, Township 23 North, Range 5 East, Liberty Township,
                         Howard County at 872 S 800 E from AG (Agricultural) to
                         RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southwest quarter of Section
2021-BCCO-36 8-19-21     4, Township 23 North, Range 5 East, Liberty Township,
                         Howard County at 104033 W 00 NS from AG (Agricultural)
                         to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southeast quarter of Section
2021-BCCO-38 9-29-21     7, Township 23 North, Range 3 East, Harrison Township,
                         Howard County at 1623 South 500 West from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of the
2022-BCCO-7  2-1-22      northeast quarter of Section 8, Township 24 North,
                         Range 4 East, Howard Township at 4797 North 200 East
                         from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southeast quarter of Section
2022-BCCO-8  2-1-22      13, Township 23 North, Range 5 East, Union Township,
                         Howard County at 2940 South 1150 East from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as a part of the east half of the southeast
2022-BCCO-16 3-30-22     quarter of Section 24, Township 23 North, Range 2 East
                         of the second principal meridian, Honey Creek
                         Township, Howard County at 6270 W 400 S from AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of Section
2022-BCCO-17 3-30-22     13, Township 23 North, Range 2 East, Monroe Township,
                         Howard County at 6310 W 250 S from AG (Agricultural)
                         to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast and northwest
2022-BCCO-18 3-30-22     quarters of Section 5, Township 23 North, Range 5
                         East, Liberty Township, Howard County at 7519 E 00 NS
                         from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of Section
2022-BCCO-22 4-27-22     18, Township 24 North, Range 3 East of the second
                         principal meridian, Howard County at 5305 West 400
                         North from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural
                         Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the west half of the northeast
2022-BCCO-23 4-27-22     quarter of Section 30, Township 24 North, Range 2
                         East, Ervin Township, Howard County at 1516 North 1150
                         West from IS (Institutional) to RR (Rural
                         Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as Lot 30 in Sugar Mill, Section 3, an
2022-BCCO-26 5-31-22     addition to Harrison Township, Howard County at 5333
                         Sugar Trace from R1 (Low Density Residential)) and AG
                         (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northwest quarter of Section
2022-BCCO-27 5-31-22     7, Township 24 North, Range 3 East, Clay Township,
                         Howard County at 5493 W 500 N from AG (Agricultural)
                         to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the east half of Section 4,
2022-BCCO-50 11-2-22     Township 23 North, Range 2 East, Monroe Township,
                         Howard County at 630 S 950 W from AG (Agricultural) to
                         RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northeast quarter of Section
2022-BCCO-51 11-2-22     32, Township 24 North, Range 3 East, Clay Township,
                         Howard County at 4513 W 100 N from AG (Agricultural)
                         to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the west half of the southwest
2022-BCCO-53 11-30-22    quarter of Section 17, Township 23 North, Range 2 East
                         of the second principal meridian, Monroe Township,
                         Howard County at 10745 W 250 S from AG (Agricultural)
                         to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northwest quarter of Section
2023-BCCO-6  2-20-23     35, Township 24 North, Range 2 East, Ervin Township,
                         Howard County at 797 N 750 W from AG (Agricultural) to
                         RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the northwest quarter of Section
2023-BCCO-12 4-3-23      27, Township 24 North, Range 3 East, in Center
                         Township, Kokomo, Howard County at 3215 West Judson
                         Road from IS (Institutional Uses) to RR (Rural
                         Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
2023-BCCO-13 4-3-23      described as Tracts I, II, and III in Ordinance 2023-
                         BCCO-13, at 950 W 75 S from PR (Parks & Recreation) to
                         IS (Institutional Uses).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as a fractional part of the east half of the
2023-BCCO-19 5-31-23     southwest quarter of Section 22, Township 24 North,
                         Range 2 East, Ervin Township, Howard County at 8608 W
                         200 N from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural
                         Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as a part of the southwest quarter of the
2023-BCCO-16 5-1-23      northwest quarter of Section 36, Township 24 North,
                         Range 2 East, Ervin Township, Howard County at 792 N
                         700 W from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural
                         Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as part of the southwest quarter of the
2023-BCCO-31 8-7-23      northwest quarter of Section 13, Township 23 North,
                         Range 2 East, Monroe Township, Howard County at 2262 S
                         700 W from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural
                         Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as a part of the southeast quarter of
2023-BCCO-32 8-7-23      Section 14, Township 24 North, Range 3 East of the
                         second principal meridian, Howard County at 1225 W 350
                         N from AG (Agricultural) to RR (Rural Residential).
                         Changing the zoning classification for property
                         described as a part of the northeast quarter of
2023-BCCO-33 8-7-23      Section 29, Township 24 North, Range 3 East, Clay
                         Township, Howard County at 1723 N 400 W from RR (Rural
                         Residential) to AC (Agricultural Commercial).
                        
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1983 Code of Ordinances
References to County Council Resolutions
References to County Council Ordinances
References to Board of County Commissioners Resolutions
References to Board of County Commissioners Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
Indiana Code Section Code Section
Indiana Code Section    Code Section
1-1-1-5                 10.04
1-1-1-7                 10.12
1-1-1-8                 10.06
1-1-1-8(b)              10.06
1-1-4-5                 10.05
1-1-5-1                 10.11
1-1-6-1                 10.08
Chapter 3               34.03
3-5-2-40.1              34.03
3-6-6-5(b)              30.16
4-13-1.6                36.19
4-13-1.7                36.19
4-21.5                  51.29
                        92.30,
4-21.5-1-9              96.05,
                        111.01
5-1-14-14(b)            33.35
5-2-1-9(f)              32.04
5-3-1                   36.19
5-4-3-8(g)              33.10
5-10.2-3-2              34.02
5-11-1-27(e)            33.12
5-11-10-1.6(c)(1) - (4) 36.13
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.      30.01,
                        31.02
5-14-1.5-4(a)           30.02
5-14-1.5-4(b)           30.02
5-14-1.5-5(a)           30.02
5-14-1.5-5(c)           30.02
5-14-1.5-5(d)           30.02
5-14-1.5-5(f)(2)        30.02
5-14-1.5-6.1            30.02
5-14-1.5-6.1(d)         30.02
5-14-3-1 et seq.        33.08,
                        36.10
5-14-3-3                36.07,
                        36.10
5-14-3-3(e)             36.07,
                        36.09
5-14-3-8(h)             33.36
5-14-3-8.3              33.36
5-14-3-8.5              36.09
5-14-3-9                33.10
5-14-6                  33.07
5-22                    36.19
5-22-1 et seq.          36.23
5-22-1-1 et seq.        36.06
5-22-1-3                36.19
5-22-2-38               36.06
5-22-3-5                36.19
5-22-5-20.9             36.23
5-22-6.5-1 et seq.      36.05
5-22-7                  36.19
5-22-7-1 et seq.        36.06
5-22-8                  36.19
5-22-8-1 et seq.        36.06
5-22-8-3                36.06
5-22-9                  36.19
5-22-10                 36.19
5-22-17-9               36.19
6-1.1-18.5              33.49
6-1.1-22-9.7            33.51
6-1.1-22-9.7(e)         33.51
6-1.1-22-9.7(f)         33.51
6-2.1-3-20 et seq.      110.03
6-2.1-3-20 — 6-2.1-3-2111.03
6-2.5                   33.47
6-3.5-4-13              33.46
6-3.5-5-4               33.46
6-3.5-5-15              33.46
6-3.5-6-18              33.49
6-3.5-6-28              33.49
6-3.5-6-28(d)(2)        33.49
6-3.5-7-15              33.45
6-9-15-6                33.47
6-9-18-3                33.47
6-9-18-4                33.47
6-9-18-5(a)             31.02
6-9-18-6(a)             31.02
6-9-18-6(b)             31.02
                        Ch. 152 App. A §§
7-4-700 et seq.         1 &
                        2
8-1-2-101               155.01
8-1.5-5-1               31.09
8-1.5-5-2               154.02
8-1.5-5-4               53.03
8-1.5-5-4.5             31.09
8-1.5-5-5               31.09
                        31.09,
8-1.5-5-6               53.03,
                        154.02
8-1.5-5-32              31.09
8-16-3                  33.27
8-16-3-1                33.27
8-16-3-1.5              33.27
8-20-1-28               155.01
9-20-1-3                Ch. 71 Sched. IV
9-26-9-3                33.07
10-5-3-1                36.11
10-14-3-17(b)(1)        31.10
10-14-3-17(c)           31.10
10-14-3-17(g)           31.10
10-14-3-29              36.15,
                        92.02
10-14-3-29.5(a)         36.15
10-14-3-34              36.15
11-8-8-21               33.11
11-12-6-1 et seq.       33.25
11-12-6-13              33.25
11-13-1-1(c)            36.04
13-7-1-22               50.02
13-21-3                 50.12
13-21-3-2               50.01
14-28-1                 151.06,
                        151.12
14-28-3                 151.12
16-2-1-14               92.30,
                        111.01
16-18-2-137             111.01
                        92.30,
16-18-2-210             96.05,
                        111.01
                        92.30,
16-20                   96.05,
                        111.01
16-20-1-10              96.14,
                        111.06
16-20-1-14              92.16
16-20-1-25              96.13
16-20-1-26              111.04
                        92.17,
16-20-1-27              111.03,
                        113.04
16-20-2-1               92.16
                        92.16,
16-20-2-16              92.30,
                        111.01
16-20-8-5               111.04
16-20-8-6               111.04
16-41-25-3              51.20
16-42-1                 111.04
16-42-1-1 — 16-42-4-5 110.01,
                        110.05
16-42-1-6               111.02
16-42-1-13              111.04
16-42-5                 111.01,
                        111.05
16-42-5.2               111.01
16-42-5-4               111.03
16-42-5-23              111.04
22-9-1-4 et seq.        91.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.        91.01
22-9.5-2-2              91.02
22-9.5-2-3              91.02
22-9.5-2-4              91.02
22-9.5-2-8              91.02
22-9.5-2-9              91.02
22-9.5-2-11             91.02
22-9.5-2-13             91.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.        91.10
22-9.5-3                91.03
22-9.5-4-8              91.11
22-9.5-5                91.02
22-9.5-5-1              91.03
22-9.5-6                91.02,
                        91.11
22-11-1-21.5            150.07
25-37-l-2 et seq.       112.02
25-39-4-1               52.03
26-1-20.2-8             32.02
27-1-15.6-6(d)          36.10
27-7-3-2                36.10
27-7-3-6                36.10
33-0-11.5               33.34
33-6-3-1 et seq.        10.98
33-9-11.5               33.30
33-40-7-3               31.08
33-40-7-3(a)            31.08
33-40-7-3(b)            31.08
33-40-7-3(c)            31.08
33-40-7-3(d)            31.08
33-40-7-3(e)            31.08
33-40-7-3(f)            31.08
33-40-7-6               31.08
34-1-52-1               50.12
34-4-30.1               33.28
34-4-30.5               33.28
34-4-32-1 et seq.       50.02
34-28-1-5(b)            53.17,
                        156.22
34-28-5-1               96.13,
                        111.05
                        53.17,
34-28-5-1(b)            154.99,
                        156.22
34-28-5-3               130.03
35-41-1-17(b)           36.14
35-42-4                 32.03
35-46-3                 32.03
35-50-5-4               36.05
36-1-3-8(a)(10)         10.99
36-1-6-2                50.99
36-1-6-3                90.09
36-1-6-3(b)             36.07,
                        95.99
                        53.20,
36-1-6-4                95.99,
                        155.99
36-1-6-9                155.99
                        53.17,
36-1-6-9(d)             53.20,
                        154.99,
                        156.22
                        50.17,
                        53.18,
                        92.35,
36-1-6-9(e)             111.06,
                        113.07,
                        154.99,
                        156.23
                        53.18,
                        53.20,
36-1-6-9(f)             154.99,
                        155.99,
                        156.23
36-1-8.5-4              36.16
36-1-8.5-4.5            36.16
36-1-8.5-6              36.16
36-1-8.5-7              36.16
36-1-8.5-11             36.16
36-1-12 et seq.         36.23
36-1-12-1               36.19
36-2-2-4                30.15
36-2-2-4.7              30.15
36-2-2-8                30.02
36-2-2-8(b)             30.02
36-2-3-4                30.15
36-2-4-10               30.02
36-2-5-2                33.28
36-2-6-3(d)             36.13
36-2-6-4                36.13
36-2-6-4.5              36.13
36-2-7-10(b)            33.06
36-2-7-10(f)            36.10
36-2-7-10.1             36.10
36-2-7.5-6(b)(2)        33.32
36-2-11-14              33.04
36-2-13-15(d)(3)        36.05
36-2-14-22.3            34.03
36-2-19-18(d)           33.04
36-7-2-8                157.04
36-7-4                  151.01
36-7-4-500 et seq.      152.01
36-7-8-2                31.01
36-7-9-1 et seq.        150.09
36-7-9-2                150.09
36-7-9-3                150.09
36-7-9-4                150.09
36-7-12-4               31.07
36-7-12-7               31.07
36-7-14-1 et seq.       31.06
36-7-14-3               31.06
36-7-14.5-7             31.06
36-8-3-20               32.04
36-8-10-2               32.01
36-8-10-3               32.01,
                        32.02
36-8-10-4               32.01
36-8-10-5               34.03
36-8-16-3               33.03
36-8-16-11(b)           33.03
36-8-16-12              33.03
36-8-16-13              33.03
36-8-16-14(a)           33.03
36-9-27-15              154.11
36-9-27-17              155.03
36-9-27-54              152.65
36-9-27-57 — 36-9-27-6152.65
36-10-3                 31.04
36-10-3-4               31.04
 
REFERENCES TO 1983 CODE
1983 Code Section 1998 Code Section
1983 Code Section  1998 Code Section
10.01              10.01
10.02(A)           10.02
10.03              10.03
10.05              10.05
10.07              10.11
10.09              10.06
10.10              10.07
10.11              10.08
10.12              10.09
10.13              10.10
10.14              10.10
10.16              10.13
10.18              10.14
10.99              10.99
30.02              30.15
32.04              31.01
32.06(E), (F)      33.47
32.08              31.03
32.09              31.04
32.13              32.01
32.14              32.02
32.15              31.05
34.08              33.01
34.18              33.02
51.01              52.01
51.02              52.02
51.03              52.03
51.04              52.04
51.05              52.05
51.06              52.06
51.07              52.07
51.08              52.08
51.09              52.09
51.10              52.10
51.98              52.11
70.01(A)           70.02
70.01(B)           70.04
70.02              70.05
70.03              70.03
70.10              70.01
70.11              70.01
70.20              33.46
70.21              33.46
70.22              33.46
Ch. 71, Sched. I   Ch. 71, Sched. II
Ch. 71, Sched. II  Ch. 71, Sched. III
Ch. 71, Sched. III Ch. 71, Sched. IV
Ch. 71, Sched. IV  Ch. 71, Sched. V
Ch. 72, Sched. I   Ch. 72, Sched. I
Ch. 73, Sched. I   Ch. 71, Sched. I
90.01              35.01
90.02              35.02
90.03              35.03
90.04              35.04
90.05              35.05
91.01              93.01
91.02              93.02
91.03              93.03
91.04              93.04
92.20              92.15
92.21              92.16
92.22              92.17
92.23              92.18
93.01              70.06
93.02              70.06
93.03              70.06
93.04              70.06
130.01             130.01
150.01             150.01
150.02             150.02
150.03             150.03
150.04             150.04
150.05             150.05
150.06             150.06
150.07             150.07
150.08             150.08
153.01             153.01
 
REFERENCES TO COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS
CC Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
CC Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
1986-5       2-25-86     T.S.O. I
1987-7B      8-25-87     T.S.O. II
1988-8       10-4-88     T.S.O. II
1989-2       1-24-89     T.S.O. II
1989-9       - -89       T.S.O. I
1990-1       2-13-90     T.S.O. I
1990-7       4-24-90     T.S.O. III
1990-9       6-25-90     T.S.O. I
—          7-31-90     T.S.O. I
—          9-10-90     T.S.O. I
1991-14      - -91       T.S.O. II
1992-3       3-24-92     T.S.O. II
1992-9       9-1-92      T.S.O. II
1993-12      5-17-93     T.S.O. II
1993-15      5-25-93     T.S.O. III
1994-3       3-22-94     T.S.O. I
1994-8       2-15-94     T.S.O. II
—          2-15-94     T.S.O. II
1996-46      10-22-96    T.S.O. III
1997-39      8-26-97     T.S.O. III
1998-21      - -98       36.04
1999-46      10-26-99    T.S.O. II
2000-09      3-28-00     T.S.O. I
2003-HCC-16  8-26-03     34.02
CC-2005-10   5-17-05     T.S.O. II
CC-2005-13   5-17-05     T.S.O. II
CC-2005-14   6-28-05     T.S.O. III
CC-2005-36   12-13-05    T.S.O. II
2006-CC-10   5-23-05     T.S.O. II
2006-CC-43   10-24-06    T.S.O. II
2008-CC-25   12-9-08     T.S.O. III
2009-CC-5    4-28-09     T.S.O. II
2010-HCCR-20 10-26-10    T.S.O. II
2012-HCCR011 5-22-12     T.S.O. I
2012-HCCR-12 5-22-12     T.S.O. I
2012-HCCR-18 6-26-12     T.S.O. I
2014-HCCR-21 - -         36.04
2017 HCCR-5  3-28-17     T.S.O. II
2019-HCCR-03 1-22-19     T.S.O. I
2019 HCCR-5  2-26-19     T.S.O. I
 
REFERENCES TO COUNTY COUNCIL ORDINANCES
CC Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
CC Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
1986-18      12-2-86     33.48
1988-16      8-2-88      T.S.O. II
1988-17      8-2-88      33.03
1989-4       2-21-89     33.03
1990-2       2-12-90     33.25
1990-4       2-13-90     33.28
1990-43      12-18-90    T.S.O. III
1991-3       2-26-91     33.25
1992-9       3-24-92     33.25
1994-18      3-22-94     33.25
1994-19      4-26-94     30.01
1994-25      4-26-94     33.26
1995-4       1-24-95     33.25
1996-1       2-6-96      33.45
1996-11      2-6-96      33.25
1996-46      8-20-96     T.S.O. III
1996-47      8-20-96     T.S.O. III
1997-07      - -97       33.25
1997-28      - -         T.S.O. III
1997-51      11-25-97    33.26
1998-02      1-20-98     33.25
1998-06      1-27-98     T.S.O. II
1998-20      3-24-98     T.S.O. II
1998-32      7-21-98     36.05
1999-29      6-22-99     36.10
2002-04      1-23-02     33.30
2004-HCC-15  4-27-04     T.S.O. II
2004-HCC-24  6-22-04     T.S.O. II
2007-CC-12   3-27-07     33.49
2007-CC-26   6-26-07     33.49
2007-CC-51   12-11-07    33.33
2008-CC-22   7-24-08     33.03
2010-CC-5    1-26-10     33.30
2010-HCCO-32 11-23-10    33.51
2011-HCCO-5  2-22-11     33.34
2011-HCCO-20 11-22-11    33.51
2013-HCCO-08 4-23-13     33.35
2013-HCCO-16 8-20-13     33.36
2013-HCCO-27 10-22-13    33.47
2015-HCCO-22 7-28-15     33.49
16-HCCO-05   - -         33.34
2017-HCCO-37 9-18-17     33.03
2019 HCCO-07 6-25-19     33.47
2020 HCCO-11 2-25-20     33.10
2021 HCCO-31 7-27-21     33.13
2021 HCCO-55 12-21-21    33.07
                        
 
REFERENCES TO BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS RESOLUTIONS
BCC Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
BCC Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
—           11-4-57     31.05
—           10-4-71     31.03
—           1-3-78      Ch. 152
1986-13       11-17-86    T.S.O. III
1987-7A       8-17-87     T.S.O. II
—           6-20-88     T.S.O. I
—           12-5-88     T.S.O. II
1989-11       6-19-89     T.S.O. I
—           6-11-90     T.S.O. I
1991-7        5-6-91      T.S.O. III
1991-11       6-24-91     T.S.O. I
1992-6        6-22-92     T.S.O. I
—           6-21-93     T.S.O. I
1993-28       8-30-93     T.S.O. III
1993-32       10-4-93     T.S.O. III
1993-36       11-22-93    T.S.O. III
1993-36A      12-13-93    T.S.O. III
1993-37       11-22-93    T.S.O. III
1994-7        1-31-94     T.S.O. II
1996-25       7-1-96      T.S.O. III
1996-28       7-15-96     33.45
1996-35       9-3-96      T.S.O. III
1996-36       9-9-96      33.45
1996-43       10-21-96    T.S.O. III
1996-44       - -         T.S.O. III
1996-47       11-4-96     T.S.O. III
1996-49       - -         T.S.O. III
1996-55       - -         T.S.O. III
1997-13       4-7-97      T.S.O. III
1997-21       6-2-97      T.S.O. I
1997-22       6-2-97      T.S.O. III
1997-29       7-21-97     T.S.O. III
1998-22       6-1-98      T.S.O. III
1998-30       8-17-98     T.S.O. III
1998-31       8-17-98     T.S.O. III
1998-41       11-2-98     T.S.O. II
1999-16       4-20-99     33.45
2000-07       2-21-00     T.S.O. IV
2004-BCC-18   8-16-04     34.01
2005-BCC-06   4-18-05     34.01
CC-2005-32    11-21-05    T.S.O. II
2006-BCC-12   6-15-06     T.S.O. II
2007-BCC-06   2-5-07      96.10
CC-2007-17    7-16-07     T.S.O. V
2007-BCC-20   8-20-07     33.03
2007-BCC-25   9-17-07     T.S.O. I
2008-BCC-01   1-7-08      33.45
CC-2008-23    11-17-08    T.S.O. IV
CC-2009-26    12-15-09    T.S.O. IV
2010-BCC-5    3-15-10     30.02
2010-BCCR-22A 11-1-10     T.S.O. II
2010-BCCR-23  11-15-10    33.45
2011-BCCR-2   1-4-11      33.45
2011-BCCR-07  3-21-11     33.45
2011-BCCR-11  5-2-11      36.12
2011-BCCR-12  6-6-11      T.S.O. III
2011-BCCR-13  6-6-11      33.45
2011-BCCR-27  9-6-11      33.45
2011-BCCR-33  10-3-11     T.S.O. III
2012-BCCR-7   4-16-12     T.S.O. III
2012-BCCR-10  5-22-12     T.S.O. I
2012-BCCR-17  6-28-12     34.03
2012-BCCR-19  6-28-12     34.04
2012-BCCR-38  12-27-12    T.S.O. III
2014-BCCR-3   2-3-14      36.12
2015-BCCR-02  1-5-15      T.S.O. III
2015 BCCR-08  4-20-15     T.S.O. III
2018 BCCR-3   2-19-18     T.S.O. IV
2018 BCCR-14  8-6-18      36.17
2018 BCCR-23  11-5-18     36.18
2018 BCCR-27  12-3-18     T.S.O. III
2019 BCCR-10  5-20-19     T.S.O. IV
2020 BCCR-09  9-21-20     T.S.O. III
2021-BCCR-9   7-6-21      T.S.O. III
2021-BCCR-19  12-29-21    T.S.O. II
2022 BCCR-15  7-18-22     T.S.O. III
2022 BCCR-20  10-3-22     T.S.O. III
2022 BCCR-25  12-19-22    T.S.O. III
2022-BCCR-30  7-5-22      33.41
2023 BCCR-3   3-6-23      30.15
2023 BCCR-4   3-20-23     36.17
2023 BCCR-8   6-5-23      36.20
2023 BCCR-11  8-7-23      36.21
2023 BCCR-12  8-7-23      36.21
2023 BCCR-13  8-7-23      36.22
2023 BCCR-17  11-6-23     T.S.O. III
2023 BCCR-18  11-6-23     T.S.O. III
2023 BCCR-20  9-18-23     36.23
                         
 
REFERENCES TO BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS ORDINANCES
 
BCC Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
BCC Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
—          —         Ch. 71 Sched. III &
                         V
1958-3       3-10-58     Ch. 71 Sched. IV
1962-6       6-4-62      Ch. 71 Sched. III(D)
1964-1       3-2-64      Ch. 71 Sched. III(A)
1966-27      2-16-66     31.04
1969-7       7-2-69      35.01 -
                         35.05
1969-9       8-11-69     Ch. 71 Sched. III(A), (D)
1969-11A     9-4-69      32.01,
                         32.02
1970-9       11-2-70     130.01
                         70.02 -
                         70.05,
1971-8       7-19-71     Ch. 71 Sched. III,
                         Ch. 71 Sched. V,
                         Ch. 72 Sched. I
—          1-3-72      Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(2), (B)(3), (D)
1972-2       3-7-72      31.04
1972-21      6-12-72     Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(2)
                         Ch. 71 Sched. III(D) &
1972-35      11-13-72    V,
                         Ch. 72 Sched. I
1973-6       4-28-73     Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(2)
1973-8       8-13-73     Ch. 71 Sched. II(B) & (C)
1974-2       1-14-74     Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1974-20      9-9-74      Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(3)
1975-7       3-10-75     Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1975-27      12-22-75    Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1975-28      12-22-75    Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(1) & (B)(2)
1976-3       2-17-76     31.04
1977-20      5-23-77     93.03
1977-26      8-1-77      70.01
—          10-17-77    70.06
1977-31      10-31-77    Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(2)
                         152.01 -
                         152.09,
                         152.20 -
1977-38      12-19-77    152.28,
                         152.40 -
                         152.46,
                         152.60 -
                         152.70
1977-39      12-19-77    52.01 -
                         52.11
                         31.01,
1977-41      1-30-78     150.01 -
                         150.08
1977-88      1-31-77     Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1978-12      5-30-78     Ch. 71 Sched. III(C) & (D)
                         93.01,
1978-15      7-10-78     93.02,
                         93.04
1979-2       1-15-79     Ch. 72 Sched. I
1980-2       2-19-80     Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(1)
1980-9       6-9-80      Ch. 72 Sched. I
1980-16      8-18-80     93.02
1980-17      8-18-80     Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1981-9       7-13-81     153.01
1981-26      12-28-81    30.15
1982-15      7-26-82     33.01
1982-18      9-7-82      Ch. 71 Sched. IV
1982-23      12-14-82    31.04
1983-1       1-3-83      Ch. 152
1983-2       1-17-83     Ch. 71 Sched. III(D)
1983-3       1-24-83     Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(2)
1983-4       1-31-83     92.15 -
                         92.19
1983-13      3-21-83     Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1983-17      - -83       33.46
1983-20      6-6-83      Ch. 72 Sched. I
1983-25      8-8-83      Ch. 71 Sched. IV
1983-37      12-12-83    Ch. 72 Sched. I
1984-9       4-30-84     Ch. 72 Sched. I
1985-16      9-3-85      33.02
1985-17      9-3-85      33.02
1985-20      9-3-85      33.02
1986-14      7-28-86     T.S.O. IV
1986-21      12-1-86     Ch. 71 Sched. II(B)
1987-7       - -87       T.S.O. IV
1987-12      6-15-87     Ch. 72 Sched. I
1987-13      6-22-87     T.S.O. IV
1987-15      8-10-87     Ch. 72 Sched. II
1987-16      8-24-87     T.S.O. IV
1988-5       - -88       T.S.O. IV
1988-8       6-20-88     10.98
1988-9       6-20-88     Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1988-21      9-6-88      T.S.O. IV
1988-24      9-12-88     70.07
1988-27      10-4-88     T.S.O. II
1988-29      11-28-88    T.S.O. IV
1989-7       3-28-89     33.26
1989-9       4-17-89     Ch. 71 Sched. III(D)
1989-18      8-21-89     94.01
—          9-25-89     Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1989-22      10-16-89    Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1989-24      10-30-89    Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1989-25      10-30-89    Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1989-28      11-27-89    Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1989-29      11-27-89    Ch. 72 Sched. II
1990-5       2-26-90     T.S.O. IV
1990-9       3-26-90     T.S.O. V
1990-11      3-26-90     T.S.O. IV
1990-12      4-2-90      Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1990-13      4-2-90      Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1990-19      4-30-90     Ch. 72 Sched. I
1990-23      5-29-90     T.S.O. IV
1990-24      5-29-90     T.S.O. IV
1990-26      5-29-90     Ch. 72 Sched. I
1990-28      6-26-90     T.S.O. III
1990-32A     - -90       T.S.O. IV
1990-34      8-20-90     Ch. 71 Sched. III(D)
1990-36      8-27-90     50.01
1990-37      10-29-90    Ch. 72 Sched. II
1990-40      11-26-90    T.S.O. IV
1990-41      - -90       T.S.O. IV
1991-5       3- -91      T.S.O. V
1991-7       3-25-91     33.04
1991-9       4-22-91     T.S.O. V
1991-10      4-22-91     T.S.O. IV
1991-11      4-22-91     T.S.O. V
1991-13      6-3-91      T.S.O. IV
1991-14      6-3-91      T.S.O. IV
1991-15      6-3-91      T.S.O. IV
1991-20      7-22-91     T.S.O. V
1991-24      8-26-91     T.S.O. V
                         110.01 -
1991-25A     1-13-92     110.08,
                         110.99
1991-26      9-23-91     T.S.O. IV
1991-27      9-23-91     T.S.O. V
1991-28      9-23-91     T.S.O. V
1991-32      11-25-91    T.S.O. V
1991-33      11-25-91    T.S.O. V
1991-34      11-25-91    T.S.O. V
1991-37      12-16-91    30.15
1991-39      12-23-91    T.S.O. V
1991-40      12-23-91    T.S.O. V
1992-3       - -         T.S.O. V
1992-4       1-27-92     T.S.O. IV
1992-5       1-27-92     T.S.O. IV
1992-6       1-27-92     T.S.O. IV
1992-8       - -         T.S.O. V
—          3-9-92      T.S.O. II
1992-12      4-22-92     T.S.O. V
1992-13      4-27-92     T.S.O. V
1992-17      6-1-92      T.S.O. V
1992-20      6-1-92      33.05
1992-23      - -         T.S.O. V
1992-26      9-28-92     T.S.O. V
1992-27      9-28-92     T.S.O. V
1992-28      9-28-92     T.S.O. IV
1992-30      10-19-92    Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1992-31      10-19-92    Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1992-32      10-26-92    T.S.O. IV
1992-34      10-26-92    Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1992-36      10-26-92    Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1992-37      12-14-92    Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(2) & (B)(3)
1992-38      1-4-93      T.S.O. V
1993-4       2-22-93     T.S.O. IV
1993-6       2-22-93     T.S.O. IV
1993-9       3-22-93     152.65
1993-10      3-22-93     T.S.O. V
1993-12      3-29-93     Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(1)
1993-14      4-19-93     Ch. 71 Sched. III(D)
1993-15      - -93       T.S.O. IV
1993-20      6-28-93     T.S.O. V
1993-24      6-28-93     50.02,
                         50.99
1993-27      8-2-93      33.03
1993-29      - -93       T.S.O. V
1993-30      - -93       T.S.O. V
1993-32      10-25-93    92.15 -
                         92.19
                         51.01 -
1993-34      11-1-93     51.08,
                         51.99
1993-39      12-27-93    T.S.O. V
1993-40      12-27-93    T.S.O. V
1994-6       2-7-94      Ch. 71 Sched. I
1994-13      2-28-94     T.S.O. IV
1994-14      2-28-94     T.S.O. IV
1994-15      2-28-94     T.S.O. IV
1994-16      2-28-94     Ch. 71 Sched. V
1994-23      4-25-94     T.S.O. IV
1994-24      4-25-94     33.26
1994-27      6-6-94      T.S.O. IV
1994-28      6-6-94      T.S.O. IV
1994-29      6-6-94      T.S.O. IV
1994-31      8-1-94      T.S.O. IV
1994-34      8-1-94      Ch. 72 Sched. I
1994-35      9-6-94      T.S.O. IV
1994-36      9-6-94      T.S.O. IV
1994-41      10-3-94     T.S.O. V
1994-42      10-3-94     T.S.O. IV
1994-45      11-21-94    91.01 -
                         91.10
1994-46      11-7-94     T.S.O. V
1994-47      - -         T.S.O. V
1994-48      11-21-94    Ch. 71 Sched. III(D)
1994-49      - -         T.S.O. V
1994-50      12-5-94     T.S.O. V
1994-51      12-5-94     T.S.O. V
1994-52      12-5-94     T.S.O. IV
1994-53      1-23-95     151.01 -
                         151.13
1995-5       1-30-95     Ch. 71 Sched. II(B)
1995-6       2-6-95      33.07
1995-8       2-13-95     33.09
1995-12      4-3-95      T.S.O. IV
1995-13      4-3-95      36.02
1995-18      5-15-95     130.02
1995-19      6-5-95      33.27
1995-20      6-5-95      T.S.O. IV
1995-21      6-5-95      T.S.O. IV
1995-23      7-6-95      T.S.O. V
1995-26      7-31-95     T.S.O. IV
1995-29      8-14-95     33.06
1995-35      9-25-95     T.S.O. IV
1995-36      9-25-95     Ch. 71 Sched. III(D)
1995-39      10-23-95    T.S.O. IV
1995-40      10-23-95    T.S.O. IV
1996-1       1-2-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-2       1-2-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-3       2-5-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-8       2-5-96      33.25
1996-12      - -96       T.S.O. V
1996-13      3-4-96      Ch. 72 Sched. I
1996-14      3-4-96      Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1996-17      4-1-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-18      4-1-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-19      4-1-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-21      4-15-96     Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1996-22      4-15-96     Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1996-23      4-15-96     Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1996-26      5-6-96      T.S.O. V
1996-29      6-3-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-31      7-1-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-32      7-1-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-32A     8-5-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-35      7-15-96     31.06
1996-38      8-5-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-39      8-5-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-41      8-19-96     150.09
1996-44      8-19-96     T.S.O. I
1996-45      9-3-96      T.S.O. IV
1996-51      9-3-96      Ch. 71 Sched. II(B) &
                         III(A)
1996-52      9-3-96      Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1996-53      9-3-96      Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1996-54      9-3-96      30.16
1996-55      9-3-96      T.S.O. I
1996-56      10-7-96     T.S.O. V
1996-57      10-7-96     T.S.O. IV
1996-58      10-7-96     T.S.O. IV
1996-59      9-30-96     T.S.O. IV
1996-63      11-4-96     T.S.O. V
1996-64      11-1-96     Ch. 71 Sched. II(B) &
                         III(B)(1)
1996-67      12-16-96    33.08
1996-68      12-16-96    33.09
1996-69      1-6-97      T.S.O. IV
1996-70      1-6-97      T.S.O. IV
1996-71      1-6-97      T.S.O. IV
1997-4       3-3-97      T.S.O. V
1997-8       3-3-97      36.03
1997-10      4-21-97     T.S.O. IV
1997-12      4-7-97      Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(3) & (D)
1997-13      4-7-97      Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(1) - (B)(3) & (D)
1997-20      6-2-97      Ch. 71 Sched. III(D)
1997-21      7-7-97      Ch. 72 Sched. I
1997-22      6-16-97     92.17
1997-23      - -97       T.S.O. V
1997-24      7-7-97      T.S.O. IV
1997-29      7-7-97      Ch. 71 Sched. III(D)
1997-30      7-7-97      Ch. 71 Sched. II(C)
1997-32      7-7-97      92.01
1997-34      - -97       T.S.O. III
1997-39      9-15-97     Ch. 71 Sched. II(B) &
                         III(B)(1)
1997-40      9-15-97     Ch. 71 Sched. III(B)(2)
1997-41      9-15-97     33.26
1997-42      10-6-97     T.S.O. V
1997-43      10-6-97     T.S.O. V
1997-44      10-6-97     32.03,
                         33.29
1997-45      11-3-97     T.S.O. IV
1997-48      12-1-97     T.S.O. IV
1997-52      12-1-97     Ch. 71 Sched. III(D)
1997-54      12-15-97    30.15
1997-55      1-5-98      T.S.O. V
1998-03      2-2-98      T.S.O. V
1998-08      3-2-98      T.S.O. V
1998-09      3-2-98      T.S.O. V
1998-10      3-2-98      T.S.O. IV
1998-13      3-2-98      Adopting Ordinance
1998-16      4-6-98      T.S.O. V
1998-17      4-6-98      T.S.O. V
1998-18      4-6-98      T.S.O. IV
1998-19      4-6-98      T.S.O. IV
1998-07      5-4-98      T.S.O. V
1998-23      5-4-98      T.S.O. IV
1998-24      5-4-98      T.S.O. IV
1998-27      6-15-98     T.S.O. IV
1998-29      6-15-98     36.06
1998-30      6-15-98     36.05
1998-35      8-3-98      T.S.O. V
1998-36      8-3-98      T.S.O. V
1998-40      8-31-98     T.S.O. V
1998-44      10-19-98    36.06
1998-46      11-2-98     T.S.O. V
1998-47      11-2-98     T.S.O. V
1998-48      11-2-98     T.S.O. IV
1998-53      11-16-98    36.06
1998-54      12-7-98     T.S.O. V
1999-07      2-15-99     33.25
1999-01      1-6-99      36.07
1999-04      1-26-99     36.08
1999-05      2-1-99      Ch. 71, Sched. II(C)
1999-06      2-1-99      Ch. 71 Sched. II(B)
1999-10      4-5-99      T.S.O. V
1999-11      4-5-99      T.S.O. V
1999-14      5-3-99      T.S.O. V
1999-32      8-2-99      T.S.O. V
1999-33      8-2-99      T.S.O. V
1999-34      8-16-99     130.03
1999-35      8-16-99     10.98
1999-36      9-7-99      T.S.O. V
1999-44      11-1-99     Ch. 71, Sched. II(C)
1999-47      12-6-99     T.S.O. IV
2000-01      1-3-00      T.S.O. V
2000-02      1-3-00      T.S.O. V
2000-08      3-6-00      T.S.O. V
2000-09      3-6-00      T.S.O. V
2000-10      3-6-00      T.S.O. V
2000-11      2-21-00     92.15 -
                         92.19
2000-12      3-6-00      33.25
2000-16      5-1-00      36.09
2000-17      4-3-00      36.09
2000-24      6-5-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-25      6-5-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-27      6-5-00      Ch. 71, Sched. II(C)
2000-30      7-3-00      T.S.O. V
2000-31      7-3-00      T.S.O. V
2000-32      7-3-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-33      7-3-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-34      7-3-00      T.S.O. V
2000-35      7-3-00      T.S.O. V
—          8-7-00      T.S.O. V
—          10-2-00     T.S.O. IV
—          10-23-00    T.S.O. IV
—          10-23-00    T.S.O. V
—          2-19-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-12      3-5-01      T.S.O. V
2001-13      3-5-01      T.S.O. V
2001-14      2-27-01     31.07
2001-23      5-7-01      T.S.O. V
2001-24      5-7-01      T.S.O. V
2001-25      5-7-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-26      5-7-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-27      5-7-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-37      7-16-01     Ch. 71, Sched. II
2001-39      8-6-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-43      9-4-01      T.S.O. V
2001-44      9-4-01      T.S.O. IV
—          10-1-01     T.S.O. V
2001-52      11-5-01     Ch. 71, Sched. II
2001-54      12-3-01     Ch. 71, Sched. II
2001-55      12-3-01     Ch. 71, Sched. III(D)
2001-59      12-3-01     70.08
2002-05      2-4-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-09      3-4-02      Ch. 71, Sched. VI
2002-10      3-4-02      Ch. 71, Sched. III
2002-11      3-4-02      Ch. 71, Sched. II
2002-13      3-25-02     T.S.O. IV
2002-14      3-25-02     T.S.O. IV
2002-19      6-3-02      151.03,
                         151.12
2002-22      6-3-02      T.S.O. V
2002-23      6-3-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-27      7-1-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-31      8-5-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-32      8-2-02      T.S.O. V
2002-34      8-19-02     33.04
2002-35      9-3-02      T.S.O. V
2002-36      9-3-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-37      9-3-02      153.01
2002-40      9-3-02      Ch. 71, Sched. III
2002-43      10-7-02     T.S.O. V
2002-44      10-7-02     T.S.O. IV
2002-51      11-4-02     T.S.O. V
2002-52      11-4-02     T.S.O. IV
2002-53      11-4-02     Ch. 71, Sched. II &
                         III
2002-56      12-2-02     T.S.O. V
2002-57      12-2-02     T.S.O. V
2002-58      12-2-02     T.S.O. V
2003-BCC-09  3-3-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-BCC-10  3-3-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-BCC-12  3-17-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-BCC-13  4-7-03      T.S.O. V
CC-2003-16   4-7-03      36.02
2003-BCC-21  6-2-03      T.S.O. V
CC-2003-25   7-7-03      36.11
2003-BCC-30  8-4-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-BCC-31  8-4-03      T.S.O. V
2003-BCC-32  8-4-03      T.S.O. V
CC-2003-33   8-4-03      33.31
CC-2003-34   8-4-03      32.04
2003-BCC-37  8-18-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-BCC-38  9-2-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-BCC-41  10-6-03     T.S.O. V
2003-BCC-42  10-6-03     T.S.O. V
2003-BCC-43  10-6-03     T.S.O. V
2003-BCC-44  10-6-03     T.S.O. V
2003-BCC-45  10-6-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-BCC-51  11-17-03    T.S.O. IV
2003-BCC-52  12-1-03     T.S.O. IV
2004-BCC-02  1-5-04      T.S.O. V
                         92.15 -
2004-BCC-05  2-2-04      92.19,
                         110.03
2004-BCC-11  4-5-04      153.01
2004-BCC-12  4-5-04      T.S.O. V
2004-BCC-19  6-7-04      T.S.O. V
2004-BCC-20  6-7-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-BCC-21  6-7-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-BCC-25  7-6-04      T.S.O. V
                         53.01 -
2004-BCC-37  11-1-04     53.05,
                         53.15 -
                         53.19
                         156.01 -
                         156.03,
2004-BCC-38  11-1-04     156.10,
                         156.11,
                         156.20 -
                         156.26
CC-2004-39   11-1-04     33.04
2004-BCC-42  12-6-04     T.S.O. V
2004-BCC-43  12-6-04     Ch. 71, Sched. II(B) &
                         II(C)
2004-BCC-44  12-6-04     Ch. 71, Sched. II(B) &
                         III(B)
2004-BCC-45  12-6-04     34.01
2004-BCC-49  12-20-04    31.08
CC-2005-05   1-18-05     34.01
2005-BCC-06  2-7-05      T.S.O. V
2005-BCC-10  2-21-05     34.01
2005-BCC-12  3-7-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-BCC-14  4-4-05      T.S.O. V
2005-BCC-15  4-18-05     T.S.O. IV
2005-BCC-16  5-2-05      T.S.O. V
CC-2005-19   5-2-05      34.01
CC 2005-21   5-17-05     33.07
2005-BCC-22  5-16-05     111.01 -
                         111.06
2005-BCC-24  6-6-05      T.S.O. V
2005-BCC-25  6-6-05      T.S.O. V
2005-BCC-26  6-6-05      T.S.O. V
2005-BCC-28  6-6-05      T.S.O. IV
CC-2005-32   9-19-05     33.10
2005-BCC-34  12-19-05    36.12
2005-BCC-36  8-3-05      T.S.O. V
2005-BCC-37  8-3-05      30.15
2005-BCC-48  9-6-05      T.S.O. IV
CC-2005-52   9-19-05     36.07
CC-2005-53   9-19-05     92.16,
                         92.17
2005-BCC-55  10-3-05     T.S.O. IV
2005-BCC-56  10-3-05     T.S.O. IV
2005-BCC-57  10-3-05     T.S.O. IV
2005-BCC-60  11-7-05     36.13
2005-BCC-61  10-17-05    T.S.O. IV
2005-BCC-63  11-7-05     T.S.O. V
2005-BCC-66  12-5-05     T.S.O. V
                         95.01 -
2005-BCC-67  12-19-05    95.10,
                         95.99
2005-BCC-68  12-5-05     33.32
2005-BCC-71  12-19-05    T.S.O. IV
2005-BCC-72  12-19-05    T.S.O. IV
2006-BCC-08  2-20-06     T.S.O. IV
2006-BCC-11  3-6-06      96.01 -
                         96.15
2006-BCC-12  3-20-06     34.01
2006-BCC-14  4-3-06      33.04
2006-BCC-16  5-15-06     T.S.O. IV
                         92.16,
2006-BCC-17  8-7-06      92.17,
                         92.18,
                         92.19
2006-BCC-23  5-9-06      51.10
2006-BCC-24  10-2-06     Ch. 71, Sch. V
2006-BCC-28  7-17-06     33.27
2006-BCC-30  7-17-06     T.S.O. IV
2006-BCC-34  8-21-06     T.S.O. IV
                         112.01 -
2006-BCC-35  8-21-06     112.16,
                         112.99
2006-BCC-38  10-2-06     T.S.O. V
2006-BCC-39  10-2-06     T.S.O. V
2006-BCC-40  10-2-06     T.S.O. V
2006-BCC-45  11-20-05    T.S.O. IV
2006-BCC-48  12-18-06    34.01
2007-BCC-10  3-5-07      T.S.O. V
2007-BCC-11  3-5-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-BCC-14  4-16-07     T.S.O. V
2007-BCC-15  4-16-07     T.S.O. IV
2007-BCC-18  5-7-07      T.S.O. V
2007-BCC-22  6-4-07      Ch. 71, Sch. II (C)
2007-BCC-23  6-4-07      T.S.O. V
2007-BCC-27  7-2-07      T.S.O. V
2007-BCC-29  6-16-07     33.27
2007-BCC-30  7-2-07      36.14
2007-BCC-31  7-2-07      34.01
2007-BCC-33  8-6-07      T.S.O. V
2007-BCC-34  8-6-07      36.14
2007-BCC-39  9-18-07     T.S.O. V
2007-BCC-42  10-15-07    130.01
2007-BCC-45  12-3-07     36.07
2007-BCC-46  12-3-07     154.04
2007-BCC-48  12-17-07    33.50
2008-BCC-05  2-4-08      T.S.O. V
2008-BCC-06  2-18-08     90.01 -
                         90.09
2008-BCC-09  3-17-08     36.06
2008-BCC-16  6-2-08      T.S.O. IV
2008-BCC-20  6-16-08     34.01
                         50.10 -
2008-BCC-21  6-16-08     50.22,
                         50.99
2008-BCC-27  8-18-08     32.03
2008-BCC-29  9-15-08     31.09
2008-BCC-32  11-3-08     T.S.O. V
2008-BCC-33  10-3-08     T.S.O. V
2008-BCC-35  12-1-08     T.S.O. V
2008-BCC-36  11-20-08    152.24
2008-BCC-56  10-3-05     T.S.O. IV
                         92.16,
2009-BCC-03  2-16-09     92.17,
                         92.18,
                         92.19
2009-BCC-04  2-16-09     113.01 -
                         113.07
2009-BCC-07  3-6-06      Ch. 71, Sch. II (C)
2009-BCC-08  2-16-09     111.01 -
                         111.06
2009-BCC-09  3-2-09      T.S.O. V
2009-BCC-11  3-16-09     34.01
2009-BCC-14  4-20-09     36.14
2009-BCC-16  5-18-09     34.01
2009-BCC-17  6-1-09      T.S.O. V
2009-BCC-19  5-28-09     153.01
2009-BCC-29  10-10-09    T.S.O. V
2009-BCC-30  10-5-09     T.S.O. V
2009-BCC-39  1-4-10      T.S.O. V
2010-BCC-2   1-9-10      T.S.O. IV
                         53.03,
2010-BCC-12  4-19-10     53.04,
                         53.05,
                         53.20
                         154.01 -
2010-BCC-13  4-19-10     154.10,
                         154.99,
                         Ch. 154, Appendix A
2010-BCC-19  7-6-10      92.17
2010-BCC-20  6-21-10     T.S.O. I
2010-BCC-29  10-18-10    34.01
2011-BCCO-09 5-2-11      153.01
2011-BCCO-17 7-5-11      34.01
2011-BCCO-18 7-18-11     Ch. 72, Sch. I
2011-BCCO-21 8-25-11     153.01
2011-BCCO-23 8-15-11     90.01
2011-BCCO-30 12-5-11     30.15
2011-BCCO-31 12-5-11     30.15
2012-BCCO-4  2-6-12      36.15
2012-BCCO-11 4-16-12     92.15 -
                         92.19
2012-BCCO-15 6-4-12      T.S.O. V
2012-BCCO-17 6-26-12     92.02
2012-BCCO-18 8-6-12      92.17
2012-BCCO-20 9-4-12      T.S.O. V
2012-BCCO-21 9-4-12      T.S.O. V
2012-BCCO-22 9-4-12      T.S.O. V
2012-BCCO-35 12-27-12    153.01
2012-BCCO-36 12-27-12    31.10
2013-BCCO-2  2-4-13      36.14
2013-BCCO-3  2-4-13      33.11
2013-BCCO-23 11-14-13    92.15 -
                         92.19
2013-BCCO-24 10-7-13     34.01
2013-BCCO-30 11-18-13    34.01
2013-BCCO-32 11-18-13    52.12
2013-BCCO-34 12-16-13    30.15
2013-BCCO-35 12-16-13    31.02
2013-BCCO-39 12-16-13    T.S.O. IV
2014-BCCO-7  3-17-14     92.15,
                         92.17
2014-BCCO-09 4-7-14      T.S.O. V
2014-BCCO-14 5-5-14      33.37
2014-BCCO-23 9-2-14      T.S.O. V
2014-BCCO-36 12-1-14     34.01
2014 BCCO-42 12-29-14    34.01
2015 BCCO-8  3-16-15     34.01
2015 BCCO-15 6-1-15      T.S.O. V
2015 BCCO-18 7-6-15      36.16
2015 BCCO-19 8-3-15      T.S.O. V
2015 BCCO-24 8-17-15     34.01
2015 BCCO-25 8-17-15     Ch. 71, Sch. II
2015 BCCO-26 9-8-15      T.S.O. V
2015 BCCO-27 9-8-15      T.S.O. V
2015 BCCO-28 9-8-15      T.S.O. V
2015 BCCO-34 12-21-15    92.30 -
                         92.35
2015 BCCO-41 11-15-15    34.01
2015 BCCO-46 12-21-15    92.15 -
                         92.19
2016 BCCO-08 2-15-16     34.01
2016-BCCO-11 4-4-16      T.S.O. V
2016 BCCO-13 4-18-16     32.02
2016 BCCO-20 6-20-16     34.01
2016 BCCO-21 6-20-16     91.01 -
                         91.11
2016-BCCO-22 7-5-16      T.S.O. V
2016-BCCO-23 7-5-16      T.S.O. V
2016-BCCO-24 7-5-16      T.S.O. V
2016-BCCO-28 - -         33.12
2016-BCCO-31 9-6-16      T.S.O. V
2016 BCCO-40 11-7-16     32.05
2016 BCCO-47 12-28-16    34.01
2017-BCCO-1  1-3-17      T.S.O. V
2017-BCCO-06 11-21-16    T.S.O. IV
2017-BCCO-9  3-6-17      T.S.O. V
                         92.50 -
2017 BCCO-10 3-6-17      92.59,
                         92.99
2017-BCCO-13 4-17-17     T.S.O. V
2017-BCCO-16 5-1-17      T.S.O. V
2017-BCCO-17 5-1-17      94.02
2017-BCCO-21 6-5-17      T.S.O. V
2017 BCCO-22 6-5-17      36.10
2017-BCCO-26 7-3-17      T.S.O. V
2017-BCCO-27 7-3-17      T.S.O. V
2017-BCCO-32 9-5-17      T.S.O. V
2017-BCCO-40 11-6-17     T.S.O. V
2017 BCCO-45 12-4-17     34.01
2018-BCCO-7  3-5-18      T.S.O. V
2018-BCCO-8  3-5-18      T.S.O. V
2018-BCCO-11 4-2-18      T.S.O. IV
2018 BCCO-12 4-16-18     33.38
2018-BCCO-15 5-7-18      T.S.O. V
2018-BCCO-16 5-7-18      T.S.O. V
2018 BCCO-17 5-7-18      Ch. 71, Sch. III
2018-BCCO-20 7-2-18      T.S.O. IV
2018-BCCO-23 6-18-18     T.S.O. IV
2018 BCCO-28 9-4-18      33.39
2018-BCCO-33 10-1-18     T.S.O. V
2018-BCCO-37 12-2-18     T.S.O. V
2019-BCCO-1  1-22-19     T.S.O. V
2019-BCCO-11 5-6-19      T.S.O. V
2019-BCCO-14 6-17-19     33.04
2019-BCCO-20 8-5-19      T.S.O. V
2019-BCCO-21 8-5-19      T.S.O. V
2019-BCCO-22 8-5-19      33.40
2019-BCCO-27 9-16-19     154.11
2019 BCCO-28 9-16-19     36.19
2019-BCCO-40 12-2-19     T.S.O. V
2019-BCCO-41 12-2-19     T.S.O. V
2019-BCCO-42 12-2-19     T.S.O. V
2019-BCCO-46 12-27-19    T.S.O. V
2020-BCCO-1  1-6-20      36.24,
                         36.25
2020-BCCO-5  2-3-20      T.S.O. V
2020-BCCO-6  2-3-20      T.S.O. V
2020-BCCO-8  2-25-20     33.10
2020-BCCO-12 3-2-20      33.26
2020-BCCO-27 7-6-20      T.S.O. V
2020-BCCO-28 7-6-20      T.S.O. V
2020-BCCO-29 7-6-20      T.S.O. V
2020-BCCO-30 7-6-20      T.S.O. V
2020-BCCO-37 9-8-20      T.S.O. V
2020-BCCO-47 12-7-20     T.S.O. V
2020-BCCO-48 12-2-20     T.S.O. V
2020-BCCO-49 12-7-20     T.S.O. V
2020-BCCO-50 12-2-20     T.S.O. V
2020-BCCO-57 12-21-20    34.01
2021-BCCO-4  1-27-21     T.S.O. V
2021-BCCO-5  1-27-21     T.S.O. V
2021-BCCO-12 3-11-21     T.S.O. V
2021-BCCO-15 3-31-21     T.S.O. V
2021-BCCO-16 3-31-21     T.S.O. V
2021-BCCO-18 4-28-21     T.S.O. V
2021 BCCO-19 5-3-21      33.44-1
2021-BCCO-21 6-2-21      T.S.O. V
2021-BCCO-27 7-6-21      92.03
2021-BCCO-28 11-1-21     157.01 -
                         157.08
2021-BCCO-30 7-28-21     T.S.O. V
2021-BCCO-34 8-19-21     T.S.O. V
2021-BCCO-35 8-19-21     T.S.O. V
2021-BCCO-36 8-19-21     T.S.O. V
2021-BCCO-38 9-29-21     T.S.O. V
2021-BCCO-41 10-18-21    T.S.O. IV
2021-BCCO-53 12-20-21    33.44-2
2022-BCCO-7  2-1-22      T.S.O. V
2022-BCCO-8  2-1-22      T.S.O. V
2022-BCCO-16 3-30-22     T.S.O. V
2022-BCCO-17 3-30-22     T.S.O. V
2022-BCCO-18 3-30-22     T.S.O. V
BCCO-20      4-18-22     T.S.O. IV
BCCO-21      4-18-22     T.S.O. IV
2022-BCCO-22 4-27-22     T.S.O. V
2022-BCCO-23 4-27-22     T.S.O. V
2022-BCCO-26 5-31-22     T.S.O. V
2022-BCCO-27 5-31-22     T.S.O. V
2022-BCCO-31 7-5-22      33.44-3
2022-BCCO-35 8-1-22      33.44-4
2022-BCCO-39 9-19-22     33.44-5
2022-BCCO-40 9-6-22      T.S.O. IV
2022-BCCO-46 11-7-22     33.44-6
2022-BCCO-50 11-2-22     T.S.O. V
2022-BCCO-51 11-2-22     T.S.O. V
2022-BCCO-52 12-5-22     33.44-7
2022-BCCO-53 11-30-22    T.S.O. V
2022-BCCO-57 12-19-22    33.42-1
2022-BCCO-58 12-19-22    T.S.O. IV
2023-BCCO-6  2-20-23     T.S.O. V
2023-BCCO-12 4-3-23      T.S.O. V
2023-BCCO-13 4-3-23      T.S.O. V
2023-BCCO-16 5-1-23      T.S.O. V
2023-BCCO-19 5-31-23     T.S.O. V
2023 BCCO-20 7-3-23      36.11
2023-BCCO-21 6-19-23     33.42-2
2023-BCCO-22 6-19-23     33.43
                         53.03 -
2023-BCCO-25 6-19-23     53.05,
                         53.20
                         155.01 -
BCCO-2023-26 7-3-23      155.04,
                         155.99
2023-BCCO-27 8-7-23      33.44
2023-BCCO-31 8-7-23      T.S.O. V
2023-BCCO-32 8-7-23      T.S.O. V
2023-BCCO-33 8-7-23      T.S.O. V
                        
 
