TOWN OF HUNTERTOWN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025-21 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Resolution 2024-027, passed 12-16-24; and
Ordinance 2024-016, passed 12-16-24; and
State legislation current through 2024 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS OF HUNTERTOWN, INDIANA
CLERK-TREASURER
Ryan Schwab
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Mike Aker
Patricia Freck
Bradley Hite
Tina McDonald
Brandon Seifert
 
15617 Lima Road
Huntertown, IN 46748
Phone: (260) 637-5058
Fax: (260) 637-5891
Web: www.huntertown.org
E-mail: info@huntertown.in.gov
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Rules of construction
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Construction of section references
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Severability
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Huntertown Code of 1989, for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code"
may be substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
Indiana Code.
   (B)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the Indiana
Code, the reference indicates that the section is analogous or similar to the
cited sections in the Indiana Code. Footnotes,
cross-references, and other comments are by way of explanation only and should
not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (C)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the municipal corporation unless otherwise
specifically provided.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I not incompatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY, or TOWN. The municipality of
Huntertown, Indiana.
   COUNTY. Allen County, Indiana.
   IC. Refers to the Indiana Code.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY. The municipality of Huntertown, Indiana.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the town.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the town.
   WRITING. Includes any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether
by printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed. (IC 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Town
Council or of the context of the same ordinance. (IC 1-1-4-1)
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and usual
sense. But technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import. (IC 1-
1-4-1)
   (B)   As used in the code, unless the context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future.
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day the
office in which the act is to be done is closed during regular business hours,
then the act may be done on the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday, a
Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the office is closed.
      (2)   When a public office in which an act required by law is to be
performed is closed to the public for the entire day which constitutes the last
day for doing such act or before its usual closing time on such day, then such
act may be performed on the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday.
      (3)   When a law is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included.
      (4)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
      (5)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or
notice shall mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance
of such duty or compliance with such notice.
   (D)   Act by assistants. When a statute requires an act to be done which, by
law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such requisition shall
be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized agent or deputy.
(IC 1-1-4-1)
   (E)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (F)   Joint authority. Words importing joint authority to three or more
persons shall be construed as authority to a majority of such persons, unless
otherwise declared in the law giving such authority. (IC 1-1-4-1)
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed.
   (B)   When a provision of the code is repealed or amended, the repeal or
amendment does not affect pending actions, prosecutions or proceedings, civil
or criminal. When the repeal or amendment relates to the remedy, it does not
affect pending actions, prosecutions, or proceedings, unless so expressed, nor
does any repeal or amendment affect causes of the action, prosecution, or
proceeding, existing at the time of the amendment or repeal, unless otherwise
expressly provided in the amending or repealing law.
   (C)   When a provision of the code is repealed, the repeal does not:
      (1)   Affect any rights or liabilities which exist, have accrued or have
been incurred by virtue of the repealed provision;
      (2)   Affect an action or proceeding for the enforcement of any rights or
liabilities existing or arising thereunder.
      (3)   Relieve any person from punishment for an act committed in
violation of the repealed provision;
      (4)   Affect an indictment or prosecution for a violation of the repealed
provision.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, the repealed provision shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding the repeal, provided this
does not affect the limitation of actions, prosecutions, or proceedings imposed
by any state statute.
§ 10.07 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
such reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as
subsequently amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject
matter is changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
   (B)   Whenever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (C)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by the code.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.  (IC 1-1-1-8(a))
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected, and
such word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offender shall be fined
not more than $l00 for each offense or violation. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
33.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Appointment of advisory members to Town Council
   
30.02   Election of Council members
   
30.03   Electronic meetings policy
   
30.04   President; Vice President
§ 30.01 APPOINTMENT OF ADVISORY MEMBERS TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Each member of the Town Council shall appoint an advisor to assist in
the duties of said member.
   (B)   The functions of the advisory members shall be to attend the meetings
of the Town Council and to advise and assist the members of the Town Council in
their capacities.
   (C)   The advisory members shall not vote upon any issues at the meetings of
the Town Council, nor shall they have the power or authority to sign documents
which require the signature of a member of the Town Council.
   (D)   Each member of the Town Council shall select an advisor from the
residents of his ward.
   (E)   A member of the Town Council may not appoint his spouse, nor children,
as his advisor. Children is defined according to the Indiana Laws of Descent
and Distribution.
   (F)   Each advisor appointed shall receive compensation per year as set by
ordinance for his duties. Said sum to be paid in like manner as the Town
Council member are paid.
   (G)   The appointment of an advisory member shall terminate automatically
upon the termination of his corresponding voting Council member.
   (H)   The appointment of an advisory member may be terminated by a majority
vote of the voting members of the Town Council.
(Ord. 51, passed 11-3-75)
§ 30.02 ELECTION OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   The three town legislative body districts are hereby abolished in
accordance with IC 36-5-2-4.2.
   (B)   The legislative body for the town shall consist of five members and
shall be referred to as the Town Council.
   (C)    Election of all Town Council members as well as the Clerk-Treasurer
shall be at-large within the boundaries of the town.
   (D)   In accordance with IC 3-10-7-2.7, any Council members or Clerk-
Treasurers elected in 2003 at the next municipal election shall serve a term of
three years beginning at noon on January 1, the year following the election,
and shall continue until a successor is elected and qualified. Thereafter,
municipal elections for town offices shall be held during a general election.
The term of office of the Town Council members and the Clerk-Treasurer chosen
at the second general election following the municipal election of 2003 and
each four years thereafter, shall be a term of four years beginning at noon on
January 1, after the election in which the Council members or Clerk-Treasurer
is elected to office, and shall continue until a successor is elected and
qualified.
   (E)   Beginning in 2006 and each four years thereafter, the County Election
Board shall conduct the municipal election for the town that coincides with the
general election.
(Ord. 02-006, passed 10-7-02; Am. Ord. 04-008, passed 11-22-04)
§ 30.03 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   The provisions of IC 5-14-1.5-1 et seq. (the “Act”), including
definitions, apply to this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “Electronic Meetings Policy” of
the Council and applies to the Council and any committee appointed directly by
the Council or its presiding officer.
   (B)   Electronic participation permitted.
      (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) below, any member may participate
in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participated by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   Conditions.
      (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a meeting
at which a member will participate by means of electronic communication. Not
more than 50% of the members may participate by an electronic means of
communication at the same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member’s electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member’s absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   Records of electronic means of communication. The minutes or memoranda
of a meeting at which any member participates by electronic means of
communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent; and
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   Limitations. No member of the Council may participate by means of
electronic communication in a meeting at which the Council may take final
action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Council’s power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
   (F)   Emergency.
      (1)   If an emergency is declared by:
         (a)   The Governor under IC 10-14-3-12; or
         (b)   The Town Council president under IC 10-14-3-29;
   members are not required to be physically present for a meeting until the
emergency is terminated.
      (2)   Members may participate in a meeting by any means of communication
provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person.
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting
unless the meeting is an executive session.
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with
division (D) above.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 2021-015, passed 5-26-21)
§ 30.04 PRESIDENT; VICE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   Council President.
      (1)   Election; term; resignation. The Town Council President shall be
elected by the Town Council to serve a one-year term beginning the first
Council meeting in January and ending at the first Council meeting the
following January, with no limit upon the number of times a Council member can
be elected President of the Council, per IC 36-5-2-7, and upon resignation, the
Town Council shall elect a President at its next Council meeting.
      (2)   Duties. The Council President:
         (a)   Is the town’s chief executive officer, per IC 36-5-2-2;
         (b)   Signs documents on behalf of the town;
         (c)   Chairs Council meetings;
         (d)   Serves as the highest elected official during declared state-of-
emergencies;
         (e)   Acts as the official head of the town for all ceremonial
purposes.
   (B)   Vice President.
      (1)   Election; term. Town Council Vice President shall be elected by the
Town Council to serve a one-year term beginning the first Council meeting in
January and ending at the first Council meeting the following January, with no
limit upon the number of times he or she can be elected Vice President of the
Council.
      (2)   Duties. The Vice President:
         (a)   Performs the duties of the President if the President is absent
or disabled;
         (b)   Represents the town at ceremonial functions at the request of
the President;
         (c)   Chairs Council meetings at the request of the President.
(Ord. 2022-021, passed 12-19-22)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Reimbursement for use of personal vehicles in conduct of town business
   
31.02   Primary election for town official nominations
   
31.03   Conflict of interest; nepotism
   
31.04   Use of credit cards
Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.15   Investment and reinvestment of town moneys
   
31.16   Payment of necessary claims prior to Board approval
   
31.17   Acceptance of pension liability
Town Marshal
   
31.30   Screening of future applicants
   
31.31   Initial training sessions required
Violations Clerk
   
31.40   Clerk-Treasurer designated as
   
31.41   Duty to collect
   
31.42   Duty upon collection
   
31.43   Legal proceedings
Cross-Reference:
   Election and term of Clerk-Treasurer, see §
30.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF PERSONAL VEHICLES IN CONDUCT OF TOWN BUSINESS.
   The town hereby establishes as the authorized rate of reimbursement for the
use of privately-owned vehicles by elected officials, employees and agents of
the town in the conduct of official business on behalf of the town the rate
that equals the current federal reimbursement rate per mile to be paid upon
presentation of properly prepared and approved claims from the travel expense
account. This section shall be retroactive for July 1, 2008.
(Ord. 84-005, passed 5-10-84; Am. Ord. 85-004, passed 2-4-85; Am. Ord. 00-004,
passed 3-6-00; Am. Ord. 04-005, passed 4-19-04; Am. Ord. 08-005, passed 7-21-
08)
§ 31.02 PRIMARY ELECTION FOR TOWN OFFICIAL NOMINATIONS.
   (A)   All candidates for a town office shall be nominated by a primary
election.
   (B)   The County Election Board shall conduct the primary election for the
Town.
   (C)   All statutes governing primary elections for towns shall apply.
(Ord. 02-007, passed 10-7-02)
§ 31.03 CONFLICT OF INTEREST; NEPOTISM.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   Huntertown finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a
policy of conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with Huntertown and
in contracting with Huntertown in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012 known as IC 36-1-20.2 and IC 36-1-21, respectively.
      (2)   On July 1, 2012, Huntertown shall have a nepotism and a contracting
with a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of IC 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter “nepotism policy”) and IC 36-1-21 (contracting with a unit by a
relative policy”) and implementation will begin.
   (B)   Nepotism policy.
      (1)   Huntertown nepotism policy is hereby established effective July 1,
2012 by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of IC 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition, a copy of IC 36-1-20.2 in effect on July 1, 2012 is attached to Res.
12-008 and is available for public inspection in the office of the Town Clerk
during normal business hours.
      (2)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation,
compliance and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation
and may result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a
transfer from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An
elected or appointed official of Huntertown who fails to abide by or cooperate
with the implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications
of the nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (C)   Contracting with a unit by a relative policy.
      (1)   Huntertown contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of IC 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition, a copy of IC 36-1-21 in effect on July 1,
2012 is attached to Res. 12-008 and is available for public inspection in the
office of the Town Clerk during normal business hours.
      (2)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation,
compliance and certifications connected with the contracting with a unit by a
relative policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including
termination, of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed
official of Huntertown who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
contracting with a unit by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed
by law.
   (D)   Applicable to both policies.
      (1)   Huntertown finds that both IC 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed are necessary.
      (2)   Huntertown further finds that a single member of the legislative
body cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation,
grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of
a majority of the body and therefore without such authority by the majority he
or she will not be in the direct line of supervision. See IC 36-5-2-13.
      (3)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of Huntertown are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
      (4)   (a)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to
be implemented by any of the following actions:
            1.   Posting a copy of Res. 12-008 in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in Huntertown where it poste employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
            2.   Providing a copy of Res. 12-008 to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
            3.   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of Res. 12-008;
or
            4.   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by Res. 12-008 to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
         (b)   Upon taking of any of these actions these policies are deemed
implemented by Huntertown.
(Res. 12-008, passed 6-18-12)
§ 31.04 USE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and directed to establish credit
card accounts with a credit limit not to exceed $1,000 each, and pay the annual
fees therefor from the appropriate fund(s).
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Manager are each authorized to use the
credit cards, without further pre-approval, to purchase necessary items for the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office, for utility purposes and for general town needs from
vendors with whom the Town of Huntertown does not have an account.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer or Town Manager may designate other employees of
the town to use the credit cards, but in each case, following the use of the
credit card, it shall be returned to the Clerk-Treasurer or Town Manager,
whichever applies, and each shall be responsible for maintaining a log which
includes the name of the person using the card, their position with the town,
estimated amounts to be charged, fund and account numbers to be charged, the
date when the card was delivered to and returned by the employee, and a receipt
for the expenditure.
   (D)   Any interest or penalty incurred for late submission of required
documentation shall be the responsibility of the officer or employee failing to
timely submit documentation.
(Res. 11-005, passed 6-6-11; Am. Res. 18-007, passed 9-4-18)
Cross-reference:
   Other town policies, see
Ch. 33
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 31.15 INVESTMENT AND REINVESTMENT OF TOWN MONEYS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to prudently invest and reinvest
all town moneys entrusted to his or her care as a part of his or her duties as
the Clerk-Treasurer for the town.
(Res. 85-003, passed 2-4-85)
§ 31.16 PAYMENT OF NECESSARY CLAIMS PRIOR TO BOARD APPROVAL.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to pay claims that have
penalties, to pay insurance and to pay necessary payroll which arise and
require payment prior to the next regular monthly meeting of the Town Council;
and the Council will thereafter at the next meeting examine and approve the
payments as they appear on the claim docket.
(Res. 85-002, passed 2-4-85)
§ 31.17 ACCEPTANCE OF PENSION LIABILITY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to accept pension liability on
behalf of the said town.
(Res. 85-008, passed 2-4-85)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 31.30 SCREENING OF FUTURE APPLICANTS.
   All future applicants for either Town Marshal or Town Marshal deputies shall
be screened through the office of the County Police Force and the results of
said screening shall be thoroughly considered by the Town Council prior to the
retention of any future police officers.
(Res. 53, passed 6-7-76)
§ 31.31 INITIAL TRAINING SESSIONS REQUIRED.
   All present and future town marshals and deputy town marshals shall be
required to attend the initial training sessions as prescribed and conducted by
the County Police Force Reserve Officers Training Center.
(Res. 53, passed 6-7-76)
VIOLATIONS CLERK
§ 31.40 CLERK-TREASURER DESIGNATED AS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated as the Violations Clerk in
accordance with I.C. 33-36-2-2.
(Ord. 08-011, passed 11-17-08)
§ 31.41 DUTY TO COLLECT.
   The Violations Clerk, pursuant to I.C. 33-36-2-3 may accept:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violation and payment of civil penalties of not more
than $250 in ordinance or Huntertown Code violation cases in accordance with
the schedule of civil penalties hereinafter established:
      (1)   For a violation of §§
91.30 through
91.32, the sum of $50 on the first offense and the sum of $100 upon each
subsequent offense;
      (2)   For a violation of §
70.03, the sum of $25 on the first offense and the sum of $50 upon each
subsequent offense;
      (3)   For a violation of §
91.01, the sum of $50 on the first offense and the sum of $50 upon each
subsequent offense;
      (4)   For a violation of §§
93.01 through
93.05,
93.10 or
93.11, the sum of $75 on the first offense and the sum of $150 upon each
subsequent offense.
(Ord. 08-011, passed 11-17-08)
Cross-references:
   Accumulation of junk, see §§
91.30 through
91.32
   Junk cars, see §
91.01
   Motor vehicle noise, see §§
93.10 and
93.11
   Noise within town limits, see §
93.01 through
93.05
   Parking upon a sidewalk, see §
70.03
§ 31.42 DUTY UPON COLLECTION.
   All sums collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance
violations or of violations of the Huntertown Municipal Code shall be accounted
for and paid to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 08-011, passed 11-17-08)
§ 31.43 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
   If a person (i) denies an ordinance or code violation, (ii) fails to satisfy
a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk after having entered an
admission of violation, or (iii) fails to deny or admit the violation of this
subchapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall report this fact to the Town Attorney to
prosecute the ordinance violation cases for the town, and the Town Attorney
shall initiate proceedings in court against the person for the alleged
ordinance violation, all in accordance with I.C. 33-36-3-5.
(Ord. 08-011, passed 11-17-08)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
32.02   Municipal Promotional Appropriation
   
32.03   Rainy Day Fund
   
32.04   Service fees
   
32.05   Equipment Replacement Fund; tax levied
   
32.06   Riverboat Fund
   
32.07   Water Cash Reserve Fund
   
32.08   Clerk-Treasurer Training Fund
   
32.09   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
32.10   Woods Road Sidewalk Improvement Fund
   
32.11   Hometown Hero Banner Fund
   
32.12   Huntertown Tax Abatement Development Fund
   
32.13   Hathaway Road Sidewalk and Roadway Improvement Fund
   
32.14   Lima Road Sidewalk Improvement Fund
   
32.15   Kell Road Bridge Improvement Fund
   
32.16   Opioid Settlement Unrestricted Fund
   
32.17   Carroll Road Sidewalk/Trail Improvement Fund
   
32.18   ARPA Allen County Grant Fund
Capitalization Policy
   
32.20   Definitions
   
32.21   Land
   
32.22   Infrastructure
   
32.23   Buildings
   
32.24   Improvements other than buildings
   
32.25   Machinery and equipment
   
32.26   Construction in progress
   
32.27   Recording; accounting
   
32.28   Safeguarding assets
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Huntertown Cumulative Capital
Development Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from
the levy will be retained in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   The maximum rate of levy under division (B) above will not exceed:
      (1)   $.05 per $100 assessed valuation for 1997.
      (2)   $.10 per $100 assessed valuation for 1998.
      (3)   $.15 per $100 assessed valuation for 1999 and thereafter.
   (D)   The Cumulative Capital Development Fund is established until such time
as the Fund is rescinded.
   (E)   The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund will
be used for capital improvements described in IC 36-9-16-3 and for other lawful
purposes.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (E) above, funds accumulated in the
Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the
purposes stated in division (E) above if the purpose is to protect the public
health, welfare or safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate
action. Money may be spent under the authority of this section only after the
Town Council President issues a declaration that the public health, welfare or
safety is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the
Fund.
(Ord. 85-007, passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. 96-005, passed 7-15-96)
§ 32.02 MUNICIPAL PROMOTIONAL APPROPRIATION.
   (A)   An appropriation, the Huntertown Municipal Promotional Appropriation
is hereby established. The Town Council is hereby authorized to budget and
appropriate funds from the general fund or from other funds to pay the expenses
incurred in promoting the betterment of the municipality.
   (B)   Expenditures from this fund may include, but are not necessarily
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations
of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business or meetings or organizations to which the municipality
belongs.
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of tourism, residential
development, economic or industrial development for the municipality, including
meeting room rental, decorations, meals and travel.
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates, or objects such as
commemorative keys.
      (5)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Town Council to directly
relate to the promotion or betterment of the town.
   (C)   No expenses shall be allowed from this appropriation without prior
authorization and approval of the Town Council. Claims for expenses under this
section will be allowed as prescribed by law.
(Ord. 95-004, passed 8-5-95)
§ 32.03 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Rainy Day Fund. There is hereby established a "Rainy Day
Fund" to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general
or special tax levy on taxable property within the town whenever the purpose of
such tax levy has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance
remains.
   (B)   Purposes of the fund. The fund on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may be
used for the operation of the town and its various departments, including, but
not limited to, salaries and wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment,
capital improvements, repairs and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfer to fund. Transfers to the Rainy Day Fund must be made between
January 1, and before March 1 of each year. The Town Council shall determine
the amount, if any, of any unused and encumbered funds available to be
transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, which transfer may not exceed more than 10%
of the town's total budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations. The Town Council may authorize the expenditure of
funds from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as
other funds are appropriated that receive tax moneys, upon making a finding
that the proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the fund.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after the date of its passage by the Town Council.
(Ord. 04-004, passed 4-19-04)
§ 32.04 SERVICE FEES.
   Supply of the following service to the general public will be set at the
rate of:
      Copies
         Letter   $ .10 per page
         Legal   $ .15 per page
(Res. 06-005, passed 2-6-06)
§ 32.05 EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND; TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   A need now exists for the establishment of an Equipment Replacement
Fund for the Perry-Huntertown-Eel River Fire Protection Territory for the
following purposes: all uses as set out in IC 36-8-19-8.5, including but not
limited to, the acquisition of firefighting apparatus, equipment and housing.
   (B)   The Board will adhere to the provisions of IC 36-8-19-8.5. The
proposed Fund will not exceed $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed valuation. The
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2012 payable in 2013.
   (C)   Proofs of publication of the public hearing held on June 18, 2012 and
a certified copy of Ord. 12-006 shall be submitted to the Department of Local
Government Finance of the State of Indiana as provided by law. This Equipment
Replacement Fund is subject to approval of the Department of Local Government
Finance.
(Ord. 12-006, passed 6-18-12)
§ 32.06 RIVERBOAT FUND.
   (A)   A Riverboat Fund is hereby established into which state gaming funds
received under IC 4-33-13-5(d)(2) shall be deposited beginning January 1, 2012;
and
   (B)   The Riverboat Fund hereby established shall be non-reverting, and may
be used for any legal or corporate purpose of the town.
(Res. 11-006, passed 6-6-11)
§ 32.07 WATER CASH RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   A Water Cash Reserve Fund for the Water Utility of the town is hereby
established.
   (B)   Periodically, surplus earnings of the Water Utility may be transferred
to the Water Cash Reserve Fund of the Water Utility so long as the terms and
conditions of any bond ordinance, resolution, indenture, contract under IC 8-1-
2.2 or similar instrument are applied. SURPLUS EARNINGS are those cash earnings
remaining after provision has been made to provide for current obligations,
including:
      (1)   Operating expense;
      (2)   Depreciation or replacement fund;
      (3)   Bond and interest sinking fund;
      (4)   Retirement fund; or
      (5)   Any other priority fund requirements fixed by law.
   (C)   If at any time after approval of the budget an emergency should arise
for further appropriations from the town General Fund, the Town Council may, by
further ordinance, transfer additional money from the Water Cash Reserve Fund,
herein created, to the General Fund to provide for additional appropriations.
   (D)   The Town Council may by further ordinance make loans from the Water
Cash Reserve Fund to another utility owned by the town, for any appropriate
period, at any interest rate. The repayment of the loan and any interest shall
be returned to the Water Cash Reserve Fund.
(Ord. 13-002, passed 7-1-13)
§ 32.08 CLERK-TREASURER TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   A Training Fund for the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby established.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed to transfer $2,000 from the
General Fund to be deposited into the Training Fund.
   (C)   The Training Fund may be used for securing training for performance of
the duties of the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, including professional
training services.
(Ord. 14-014, passed 12-15-15)
§ 32.09 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   The LOIT Special Distribution Fund shall be established for the purpose of
receipting, holding, accounting for, administering and appropriating the
restricted portion of funds to be used for infrastructure as defined in IC 6-
3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A).
(Ord. 16-004, passed 6-6-16)
§ 32.10 WOODS ROAD SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fund to be known as Fund #270
Woods Road Sidewalk Improvement Fund.
   (B)   The purpose of this fund is to be used for sidewalk improvements on
Woods Road in the Town of Huntertown.
   (C)   That in the event the Woods Road Sidewalk Improvement Fund is not used
by December 31, 2025, all monies deposited into this fund will be transferred
to the Huntertown CEDIT Fund and used for general sidewalk purposes.
(Ord. 19-010, passed 11-4-19)
§ 32.11 HOMETOWN HERO BANNER FUND.
   (A)   Creation of special fund. There is hereby established a special fund
to be known as Fund #271 - Hometown Hero Banner Fund.
   (B)   Purpose of the fund. The purpose of this fund is to be used for banner
and bracket improvements and similar decorations on Old Lima Road in the Town
of Huntertown.
   (C)   Expiration of fund. In the event the Hometown Hero Banner Fund is not
used by December 31, 2030, all monies deposited into this fund will be
transferred to the Huntertown CEDIT Fund and used for downtown improvement
purposes.
(Ord. 2020-001, passed 1-21-20)
§ 32.12 HUNTERTOWN TAX ABATEMENT DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Creation of special fund. There is hereby established a special fund
to be known as Fund # 272 - Huntertown Tax Abatement Development Fund.
   (B)   Purpose of the fund. The purpose of this fund is to be used for the
eligible uses described in Resolution 2020-025 of the criteria for the review
of tax abatement applications for economic revitalization areas in the Town of
Huntertown.
   (C)   Expiration of fund. In the event the Huntertown Tax Abatement
Development Fund is no longer serving a purpose, the Council has discretion to
transfer the funds into the Huntertown CEDIT Fund to be used for economic
development activities and purposes.
(Ord. 2020-013, passed 10-5-20)
§ 32.13 HATHAWAY ROAD SIDEWALK AND ROADWAY IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Creation of special fund. There is hereby established a special fund
to be known as Fund # 273 - Hathaway Road Sidewalk and Roadway Improvement
Fund.
   (B)   Purpose of the fund. The purpose of this fund is to be used for
sidewalk and roadway improvements on Hathaway Road in the Town of Huntertown.
   (C)   Expiration of fund. In the event the Hathaway Road Sidewalk and
Roadway Improvement Fund is not used by December 31, 2030, all monies deposited
into this fund will be transferred to the Huntertown CEDIT Fund and used for
general sidewalk and/or roadway purposes.
(Ord. 2020-16, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2020-17, passed 12-21-20)
§ 32.14 LIMA ROAD SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Creation of special fund. There is hereby established a special fund
to be known as Fund #274 - Lima Road Sidewalk Improvement Fund.
   (B)   Purpose of the fund. The purpose of this fund is to be used for
sidewalk improvements on Lima Road in the town.
   (C)   Expiration of fund. In the event the Lima Road Sidewalk Improvement
Fund is not used by December 31, 2031, all monies deposited into this fund will
be transferred to the Huntertown CEDIT Fund and used for general sidewalk
purposes.
(Ord. 2021-004, passed 4-5-21)
§ 32.15 KELL ROAD BRIDGE IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Creation of special fund. There is hereby established a special fund
to be known as Fund #275 - Kell Road Bridge Improvement Fund.
   (B)   Purpose of the fund. The purpose of this fund is to be used for
expenses incurred through the Town’s federal aid project through the Indiana
Department of Transportation (Des. No. 1902837) scheduled for construction in
fiscal year 2025.
   (C)   Expiration of fund. In the event the Kell Road Bridge Improvement Fund
is no longer serving a purpose, the Council has the discretion to transfer the
funds into any home-ruled fund for the purpose of funding a bridge improvement
project. If the project is complete and the balance of the fund is $0, the
Council can choose to eliminate the fund.
(Ord. 2021-008, passed 6-7-21)
§ 32.16 OPIOID SETTLEMENT UNRESTRICTED FUND.
   (A)   Creation of special fund. There is created Fund Number 2556, which is
a special, non- reverting fund designated as the Opioid Settlement Unrestricted
Fund.
   (B)   Purpose of fund. Any monies deposited into this fund may only be
utilized for the purposed listed in Exhibit E to Ord. 2022-017, List of Opioid
Remediation Uses. (A copy of this ordinance is available for public inspection
during normal business hours in the office of the Town Clerk.)
   (C)   Use of funds. Funds must be appropriated, disbursed pursuant to a plan
the Town Council will approve at a future date. This plan shall require a
public hearing to discuss the use of funds prior to the appropriation of such
funds. Funds are to be disbursed pursuant to the normal claims process in IC 5-
11-10-1.6.
(Ord. 2022-017, passed 10-17-22)
§ 32.17 CARROLL ROAD SIDEWALK/TRAIL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Creation of special fund. There is hereby established a special fund
to be known as Fund #2508 - Carroll Road Sidewalk/Trail Improvement Fund.
   (B)   Purpose of the fund. The purpose of this fund is to be used for
sidewalk and/or trail improvements on Carroll Road in the Town of Huntertown.
   (C)   Expiration of fund. In the event the Carroll Road Sidewalk/Trail
Improvement Fund is not used by December 31, 2031, all monies deposited into
this fund will be transferred to the Huntertown CEDIT Fund and used for general
sidewalk/trail purposes.
(Ord. 2023-001, passed 1-3-23)
§ 32.18 ARPA ALLEN COUNTY GRANT FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council of the Town of Huntertown do hereby create Fund
Number 2404, which is a special, non-reverting fund designated as the ARPA
Allen County Grant Fund.
   (B)   Any monies deposited into said fund can only be used for the purposes
described in "Attachment A" of the subrecipient agreement between the County
and the Town.
   (C)   Funds are to be disbursed pursuant to the normal claims process in
I.C. 5-11-10-1.6.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 2-20-24)
CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 32.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDINGS. Structures designed to house personnel or equipment.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvements of buildings, structures or other fixed assets;
infrastructure, machinery and equipment having an appreciable and calculable
period of usefulness. These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or
addition to the government’s general fixed assets.
   CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS. Those buildings or improvements other than
buildings that are not completed at the end of a fiscal year. These assets will
be included with noted payments and dates, including change orders for all
services and materials necessary for the preparation of the building or
improvement other than building for its intended purpose.
   FIXED ASSET. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the operating
activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are needed for the
production and sale of goods or services are termed PROPERTY, PLANT AND
EQUIPMENT or FIXED ASSETS. These assets are not held for sale in the ordinary
course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics fo the items (e.g., land, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and
fixtures.
   HISTORICAL COST. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or services
at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment, improvements other than
buildings and construction in progress are common examples of assets recognized
under the HISTORICAL COST attribute.
   IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS. Improvements to land for better
enjoyment. Assets that are attached or not easily removed, and with a life
expectancy of more than two years. Examples are walks, fencing, retaining
walls, pools, outside fountains, planters, underground sprinkling systems, and
other related items.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. Streets, curbs, water lines, and sewer lines.
   MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT. An apparatus, tool, or conglomerate of components
to form a tool The tool will stand alone and not become a part of a basic
structure or building.
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the physical
senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard and
smelled.
(Ord. 08-002, passed 4-21-08)
§ 32.21 LAND.
   (A)   The town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost.
Original cost of land will include the full value given to the seller,
relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase (including title work and
opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying and costs for preparing the
land for its intended purpose (including contractors and/or town workers
(salary and benefits)), such as demolishing buildings, excavating, clean up and
inspections.
   (B)   A department will record donated land at fair market value on the date
of transfer plus associated costs.
   (C)   Purchases using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
(Ord. 08-002, passed 4-21-08)
§ 32.22 INFRASTRUCTURE.
   (A)   The town is not required to capitalize streets, curbs, and sidewalks
retroactively prior to fiscal year 2004 but will capitalize streets, sidewalks
and curbs acquired during and following fiscal year 2004. All water lines and
sewer lines will be capitalized. The known or estimated historical costs of
infrastructures will be included. Depreciated value estimates for water and
sewer utility infrastructures will be reported.
   (B)   Infrastructures that are accepted from subdivision developers or
acquired from other donations shall be included at the know or estimated cost
at the time of receipt of the infrastructure.
(Ord. 08-002, passed 4-21-08)
§ 32.23 BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking attachments such as roofs, heating, cooling,
plumbing, lighting, sprinkling systems, or any part of the basic building. Each
department will include the cost of items designed or purchased exclusively for
the building.
   (B)   A department’s new building will be capitalized only if it meets both
of the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (C)   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize the cost only if the results meet the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost meets or exceeds $5,000;
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years.
   (D)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value on the
known or estimated date of transfer with any associated costs.
   (E)   Building purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
(Ord. 08-002, passed 4-21-08)
§ 32.24 IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS.
   The town will capitalize new improvements other than buildings or
renovations to existing improvements other than buildings if the results meet
the following conditions:
   (A)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
   (B)   The asset’s useful life is extended two or more years.
(Ord. 08-002, passed 4-21-08)
§ 32.25 MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The town will capitalize items with an individual value equal to or
greater than $5,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to form one unit
with a total value equal to or greater than the above mentioned limit will be
included as one unit.
   (B)   Shipping charges, consultant fees, and other costs directly associated
with the purchase, delivery, or set up (including contractors and/or town
workers (salary and benefits),which make such equipment operable for its
intended purpose will be capitalized.
   (C)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment will
be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Total cost is $5,000 or more;
      (2)   The useful life is extended by two or more years.
   (D)   A department will record donated machinery and equipment at fair
market value on the known or estimated date of transfer with any associated
costs.
   (E)   Purchases using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
(Ord. 08-002, passed 4-21-08)
§ 32.26 CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS.
   The town will capitalize construction in progress if the results meet the
following conditions:
   (A)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
   (B)   The asset’s useful life is extended two or more years.
(Ord. 08-002, passed 4-21-08)
§ 32.27 RECORDING; ACCOUNTING.
   The town and its various departments shall classify capital expenditures as
capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was made in
accordance with the chart of accounts of the city, town and county’s accounting
manual. The cost or property, plant and equipment includes all expenditures
necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For purposes of
recording fixed assets of the town and its departments, the valuation of assets
shall be based on historical cost of by estimation of such costs if historical
cost is unknown.
(Ord. 08-002, passed 4-21-08)
§ 32.28 SAFEGUARDING ASSETS.
   Accounting controls shall be designed and implemented to provide reasonable
assurance that:
   (A)   Capital expenditures made by the town, its various departments, and
utilities be in accordance with management’s authorization as documented in the
minutes;
   (B)   Transactions of the utilities be recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles;
   (C)   Adequate detailed records be maintained to assure accountability for
town and utility owned assets;
   (D)   Access to assets be permitted in accordance with management’s
authorization; and
   (E)   Recorded accountability for assets be compared with existing assets at
least annually and appropriate action be taken regarding any differences.
(Ord. 08-002, passed 4-21-08)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design and 2005 Guidelines for
Pedestrian Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way adopted
   
33.02   ADA Coordinator and procedures adopted
   
33.03   Executive action in emergency situations
   
33.04   Materiality threshold
   
33.05   Public records policy
   
33.06   Purchasing Agent; purchasing policy
Cross-references:
   Electronic meetings policy, see §
30.03
   Nepotism and contracting with a unit by a relative policies, see §
31.03
§ 33.01 2010 ADA STANDARDS FOR ACCESSIBLE DESIGN AND 2005 GUIDELINES FOR
PEDESTRIAN FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Town of Huntertown hereby adopts the 2010 Americans with
Disabilities (ADA) Standards for Accessible Design, and any subsequent required
standards for accessible design.
   (B)   In addition, the Town Council hereby adopts the 2005 Guidelines for
Pedestrian Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way, and any subsequent required
guidelines for pedestrian facilities in a public right-of-way.
(Res. 12-003, passed 2-6-12)
§ 33.02 ADA COORDINATOR AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, a copy of which
is attached to Resolution 15-003, is adopted as the notice of the town under
the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   (B)   The ADA grievance procedure under the Americans with Disabilities Act,
a copy of which is attached to Resolution 15-003, is adopted by the town as the
grievance procedure for addressing complaints alleging discrimination on the
basis of disability in the provision of services, activities, programs or
benefits by the town.
   (C)   In compliance with federal and state laws, the Town Council resolves
to post the required information regarding the ADA Coordinator, notice under
the Americans with Disabilities Act, and Town of Huntertown grievance procedure
under the Americans with Disabilities Act on its website and at such other
locations as may be determined from time to time.
(Res. 12-004, passed 2-6-12; Am. Res. 15-003, passed 2-17-15)
§ 33.03 EXECUTIVE ACTION IN EMERGENCY SITUATIONS.
   (A)   The President of the Town Council is hereby authorized to declare
emergencies and issue orders related thereto to protect the health and safety
of the residents of the town; and
   (B)   The orders shall remain in effect until rescinded by the President, or
until the next regular meeting of the Town Council, at which time the order
will be ratified, amended or rescinded, whichever shall first occur.
(Ord. 12-007, passed 6-18-12)
§ 33.04 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby adopts the Clerk-Treasurer’s Internal Control
Policy attached to Ordinance 16-5 and incorporated therein as Exhibit “A”
herein.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to ensure that all personnel receive
training concerning internal control procedures adopted and approved herein
prior to June 30, 2016.
   (C)   All town officials, and employees shall comply with the Internal
Control Policy and the procedures contained therein.
   (D)   The town hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $100 for purposes of
internal control procedures adopted and approved herein.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to advise the Town Council of any
periodic changes to or recommendations from the SBOA for changes to the
internal control procedures.
(Ord. 16-5, passed 6-6-16)
§ 33.05 PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY.
   (A)   The Huntertown Public Records Policy which is attached to Res. 17-004
is hereby adopted as the Public Records Policy in compliance with IC 5-14-3;
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby designated as the Public
Information Officer who shall act as the point of contact for members of the
public who request disclosure of public records; and
   (C)   The fee for copying of documents is $.10 per page, established by the
Council at its meeting on January 16, 2017.
(Res. 17-004, passed 2-6-17)
§ 33.06 PURCHASING AGENT; PURCHASING POLICY.
   (A)   The Town Manager is hereby designated as the Purchasing Agent, as
defined by IC 5- 22-2-26, for the town and the USB.
   (B)   For the purchase of supplies, as defined in IC 5-22-2-38, the policy
of the town shall be:
      (1)   For purchases below $5,000, the Purchasing Agent shall invite
quotes by phone, fax or email from at least three persons known to deal in the
lines or classes of supples to be purchased and award the contract to the
lowest responsive or responsible offeror. An invoice from the offeror, when
approved by the Purchasing Agent, shall be attached to the claim for payment.
Routine purchases below $5,000 from established vendors are exempt from this
section.
      (2)   For purchases between $5,000 and $24,999.99, the Purchasing Agent
shall invite quotes from at least three persons known to deal in the lines or
classes of supplies to be purchased and award the contract to the lowest
responsive or responsible offeror. The Purchasing Agent shall generate a
purchase order which shall be submitted to the offeror, with a copy to the
Clerk-Treasurer, who shall pay upon receipt of an invoice and approval of the
Purchasing Agent.
      (3)   For purchases between $25,000 and $49,999.99, the Purchasing Agent
shall invite quotes from at least three persons known to deal in the lines or
classes of supplies to be purchased by mailing invitations to quote to those
persons at least seven days before the time fixed for receiving quotes. The
Purchasing Agent, after consultation with the Council President or the USB
President, whichever is appropriate, shall award the contract to the lowest
responsive or responsible offeror. The Purchasing Agent shall generate a
purchase order which shall be submitted to the offeror, with a copy to the
Clerk-Treasurer, who shall pay upon receipt of an invoice and approval of the
Purchasing Agent.
      (4)   For purchases between $50,000 and $149,999.99, the Purchasing Agent
shall invite sealed quotes from at least three persons known to deal in the
lines or classes of supplies to be purchased by mailing invitations to quote to
those persons at least seven days before the time fixed for receiving sealed
quotes. Quotes will be tabulated and submitted to the Council or USB, whichever
is appropriate, to award the contract to the lowest responsible and responsive
offeror for each line or class of supplies required.
      (5)   For all purchases over $150,000 or more, the Purchasing Agent shall
comply with the requirements of IC 5-22-7-2.
      (6)   In the case of divisions (B)(1) and (2) above, if the Purchasing
Agent does not receive a quote from a responsible or responsive offeror, the
Purchasing Agent may purchase the supplies under IC 5-22-10-10.
   (C)   Whenever possible, the Purchasing Agent may also consider purchase of
supplies through other governmental entities where permitted under IC 36-1-7-
12.
(Res. 18-003, passed 5-7-18)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
      
51.   MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
53.   REFUSE
      
54.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Enactment of sewer regulations
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Enforcement authority
   
50.04   Requirements for connection to public sewers
   
50.05   Extensions of sewers outside corporate limits
   
50.06   Connections to sewerage system by certain out-of-town properties
   
50.07   Enforcement
   
50.08   Damage to city property prohibited
   
50.09   Dilution
   
50.10   Accidental discharges
   
50.11   Dumping of wastes prohibited
   
50.12   Huntertown Sewage Service Area established
Permitted Commercial and Industrial Wastes
   
50.20   Prior approval for certain wastes
   
50.21   Pretreatment facilities
   
50.22   Prior approval for pretreatment facilities
   
50.23   Pretreatment facilities operation
   
50.24   Categorical pretreatment standards
   
50.25   Prohibitions and limitations of waste discharge
   
50.26   Responsibility for obstructing or damaging sewers
Control of Admissible Industrial and Commercial Wastes
   
50.30   Submission of data on industrial waste
   
50.31   Confidential information
   
50.32   Control manholes
   
50.33   Grease and sand traps
   
50.34   Waste sampling
   
50.35   Waste analysis procedures and charges
   
50.36   Use of representative analysis
Service Charges Based on Water Usage
   
50.40   Water obtained from the town's water utility
   
50.41   Water obtained from other sources
   
50.42   Exempt water
   
50.43   Metering of sewage
User Charges
   
50.50   Definitions
   
50.51   Schedule of rates and charges
   
50.52   Basis for charges
   
50.53   Town subject to payment of charges
   
50.54   Billing procedure; examination of collection records
   
50.55   Enforcement of town regulations
   
50.56   Surcharge for sanitary sewer service; inspections
Strength-of-Wastes Surcharges
   
50.60   Liability for surcharge
   
50.61   Computation of surcharge
   
50.62   Waste evaluation charges
   
50.63   Revision of rates of surcharge
Billing of Service Charges
   
50.65   Billing period
   
50.66   Liability for payment
   
50.67   First billings
   
50.68   Town subject to charges
Delinquent Accounts
   
50.70   How delinquencies arise
   
50.71   Collection through shutting off water service
   
50.72   Collection through terminating sewer service
   
50.73   List of delinquent fees and penalties; tax duplicates collection
   
50.74   Collection through court actions
Accounting for Sewerage Service Charges
   
50.75   Accounting for sewerage service charges
Sewer Utility; General Rules and Regulations
   
50.80   Definitions
   
50.81   Limitation of concentrations permitted in industrial wastes
   
50.82   Major industrial user
   
50.83   Control manholes
   
50.84   Grease and sand traps
   
50.85   Service charges
   
50.86   Enforcement
   
50.87   Enforcement procedure
   
50.88   Enforcement response procedure
   
50.89   Right of appeal
   
50.90   Public notification
   
50.91   Submission of data on industrial waste
   
50.92   Present rules supercede prior rules
Sewers and Sewerage Systems
   
50.93   Remedies not exclusive
   
50.94   Amendments and revisions
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 ENACTMENT OF SEWER REGULATIONS.
   There is hereby enacted this chapter, entitled Sewers and Sewerage System as
set forth herein.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as The Clean Water
Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 466, as referred to in IC 13-1-4-1.
Editor’s note:
   IC 13-1 was repealed by P.L. 1-1996, Sec. 99.
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard (federal, state and/or local) contained in the ordinance and
considered to be the more restrictive with which nondomestic users shall be
required to comply.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of dissolved oxygen, in
milligrams per liter, required during the stabilization of the decomposable
organic matter by aerobic biochemical action of sewage, sewage effluent,
polluted waters or industrial wastes under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in STANDARD METHODS.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system that receives the discharge from soil, waste or other
drainage pipes inside walls of the building and conveys it to a point outside
the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) DRAIN CONNECTION. The point where the building (or
house) sewer is connected to the building drain at a location approximately
three feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) SEWER. The pipe which is connected to the building (or
house) drain at a point three feet outside the foundation wall of the building
and which conveys the building's discharge from that point to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) SEWER CONNECTION. The point where the building sewer is
connected to the public sewer. This connection to the public sewer may be
accomplished as follows:
      (1)   Where a tap-in connection is employed, the point of connection
shall be where the end of
the building sewer meets the inside face of the sewage system and the tapping
"saddle and/or joint" shall be considered part of the building sewer.
      (2)   Where fittings (T's or Y's) are employed, the connection shall be
where the end of the first pipe meets the end of the fitting. The said T or Y
fitting shall be considered a part of the building sewer.
   BULK WASTE. Any containerized solid, liquid or gaseous substance discarded
or to be discarded as worthless, defective or of no use to the person
discarding said substance.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A measure of oxygen equivalent to that portion
of the organic matter in a sample of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted waters
or industrial wastes that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong chemical
oxidant. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   CLASSIFICATION OF USERS.
      (1)   DOMESTIC CLASS USER. A user discharging only normal domestic
sewage, as herein defined, into the system.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL CLASS USER. A user falling within Division G of the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, United States Office of
Management and Budget as currently amended and supplemented. A copy is on file
in the Office of the Supervisor of Industrial Waste Control.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL CLASS USER. A user falling within Division A, B, D, E or
I of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, United States Office
of Management and Budget, as currently amended and supplemented. A copy is on
file in the Office of the Supervisor of Industrial Waste Control. A user
described in the divisions listed herein may be excluded if it is determined,
by the town, that such user will introduce primarily segregated domestic waste
or waste from sanitary conveniences. Users not listed therein may be included
in this class of customers because of the production of excess strength of
waste or toxics in excess of limits described hereinafter.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. City of Fort Wayne.
   DWELLING. A building, or portion thereof, under one roof used primarily as
the abode of one or more persons but not including hotels, motels, lodging or
boarding houses or tourist homes.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer receptacle or outlet.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen circumstance or combination of circumstances that
may cause an eminent endangerment to the health and/or welfare of persons, the
environment, or which may interfere with the operation of the sewer collection
system or the Water Pollution Control Plant.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food or from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GROUND GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions normally prevailing
in the public sewer, with no particle being greater than ½-inch in any
dimension.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance, or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business operation or process from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource carried on by any person.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   MAJOR INDUSTRIAL USER. A user of the town-owned treatment works that: (a)
has a flow of 50,000 gallons of water or more per average work day; (b) has a
flow of waste greater than 5% of the flow carried by any part of the town
system receiving the waste; (c) has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in amounts
as defined in standards issued under Section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or (d)
is found by the State Department of Environmental Management, in connection
with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the town-owned treatment works
receiving the waste, to have significant impact whether singularly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sewage having an average daily suspended solids
concentration of not more than 300 milligrams per liter, an average daily
B.O.D. concentration of not more than 300 milligrams per liter, an average
daily phosphorus concentration of not more than 10 milligrams per liter and an
average daily ammonia concentration of not more than 15 milligrams per liter.
   NPDES PERMIT. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
issued by the State Department of Environmental Management for discharges of
waste waters to navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Section 402
or 33 U.S.C. 466.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs direct and indirect other than
debt services including replacement costs as defined in RECEIVING STREAMS,
necessary to insure adequate wastewater treatment on a continuing basis
conforming with federal, state or local requirements and to insure long-term
management.
   OUTLET. Any outlet, natural or constructed, which is the point of final
discharge of sewage or of treatment plant effluent into any watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, company, municipal or private
corporation, commercial establishment, association, society, institution,
enterprise, governmental agency or other legal unit or entity.
   pH. The logarithm (to the base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration of a solution expressed in gram-atoms per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANTS.
      (1)   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Waste containing biochemical oxygen demand,
chemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, phosphorus, pH and fecal coliform
bacteria and ammonia.
      (2)   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Wastes containing pollutants that are not
a compatible pollutant such as SLUG LOAD that would cause damage to the sewage
system and/or treatment plant.
   RECEIVING STREAMS. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the sewage treatment plant.
   REPLACEMENT COST. That cost, stated in current monetary values, as an
operating cost which represents and measures the day-to-day consumption and
attribution of physical assets in rendering service to users.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings, apartment houses, condominiums, motels, hotels, lodging or boarding
houses, office buildings, factories, or institutions free from storm waters,
surface waters and industrial wastes.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewerage system for wastes which do not exceed in strength the concentration
values above which a strength-of-waste surcharge will be made.
   SEWAGE. The water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT. Of the City of Fort
Wayne the arrangement of devices, structures and equipment used for treating
and disposing of sewage and sludge.
   SEWAGE UTILITY or WATER POLLUTION CONTROL WORKS. All facilities and systems
for collecting, transporting, pumping, treating, disposing of sewage and
sludge, including the sewerage collection system and the sewage treatment
plant, whether or not in active use.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage and other waste liquids as
differentiated below:
      (1)   COMBINED OR COMBINATION SEWER. A sewer which carries storm, surface
and groundwater runoff as well as sewage.
      (2)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer to the use of which all owners of abutting
property have equal rights and is controlled and maintained by the town or
other public authority.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary sewage and to which
storm, surface, groundwater and unpolluted industrial waste water are not
intentionally admitted.
   SEWER ENGINEER. The Chief Sewer Engineer of the town or his duly authorized
representative; the term is synonymous with the term WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
ENGINEER.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The network of sewers and appurtenances used for
collecting, transporting and pumping sewage to the Sewage Treatment Plant.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater," published jointly by the American Water Works Association and the
Water Pollution Control Federation, a copy of which is on file in the office of
the Superintendent of the Water Pollution Control Plant or the office of the
Supervisor of Industrial Waste.
   STRENGTH-OF-WASTE SURCHARGE. The additional charges for sewage service
collected from users discharging sewage into the system having a strength
measurement in excess of the limits imposed by the provisions of this chapter.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utility Superintendent of the municipal works of the
town or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration is expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determinations are made in accordance with procedures set
forth in STANDARD METHODS.
   WASTE SURVEILLANCE CHARGE. A monthly charge collected from users, qualifying
as industrial or commercial class users, to defray the cost of evaluating the
user's waste by metering, sampling, laboratory analysis and/or other methods
deemed necessary. Said charges are set forth in an ordinance for sewer user
charges and are subject to review annually.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.03 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council shall, in accordance with the statutes of the state, and
subject to the provisions and requirements of this chapter, make and enforce
appropriate rules and regulations for the safe, economical and efficient
management and operation of the Town's Sewerage System; for the construction
and use of sewers, building sewers, appurtenances and connections to the
sewerage system; for the regulation, collection and refunding of rates and
charges for sewerage service; and for the implementation of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of any real property shall tap or drain either
directly or indirectly into any public sewer until a sewer tap permit has been
obtained from the town and until the owner has satisfied the obligation to pay
all assessments, reimbursements and pro rata shares of sewers extension costs
laid against that property for public sewers which serve it. A sewer tap permit
given in error shall not operate to nullify any such obligation that has been
duly recorded nor estop the town from charging and collecting such costs at any
subsequent time.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the utility may, in accordance with
policies and procedures adopted by the Town Council from time to time, permit
an owner or occupant to tap or drain into a public sewer and to defer, in whole
or in part, payment of the obligation, upon the execution and delivery to the
utility of a note, mortgage, lien document or other evidence or obligation
acceptable to the utility.
   (C)   All such deferred obligations shall be considered for the purposes of
IC 36-9-23-31 through 36-9- 23-34 to be fees assessed against real property.
   (D)   Installments of deferred obligations, including any finance charges or
interest chargeable thereon, shall be deemed to be "charges for sewerage
service" for the purposes of §§
50.65 through
50.74.
   (E)   Sewer tap permits shall be obtained from the town's utility office for
a fee of $75 for each sewer tap permit for a standard six-inch service, a fee
of $100 for each sewer tap permit for a special six-inch service (such as a tap
into a collection system manhole) and a fee of $100 for each sewer tap permit
for a sewer service larger than six inches. The aforementioned charges will
apply to similar types of taps into the town storm sewer system. No later than
48 hours after making each sewer tap and building of the sewer installation,
the tap contractor or property owner shall notify the Town Utility Office of
such connections so that an inspection may be made by the utility prior to
backfilling the said sewer installation.
   (F)   No person shall connect any roof downspout, exterior foundation drain
or other source of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or
building drain which is connected either directly or indirectly to a sanitary
sewer of the town.
   (G)   The Town Council shall have an authority to require an owner of real
property to disconnect any downspouts, yard drains or other drains which carry
the runoff of natural precipitation from a building sewer which drains into a
sanitary sewer. Property owners shall have 30 days after notice thereof to
comply with any such requirements.
   (H)   A new connection may be made to a town sewer or sewers connected to
the town system only after there has been adequate assurance by the town that
the downstream facilities of the sewage works have adequate capacity to
transmit and treat new waste loadings.
   (I)   No person shall make use of a sewer tap or backfill or otherwise
conceal a sewer installation unless and until the same has been inspected and
approved by the utility. In addition to all other remedies, the utility may
cause the said installation of sewer tap to be excavated and exposed, may
terminate the connection, and may require the owner or occupant to pay or
reimburse the utility for its costs and expenses in such excavation, exposure,
termination, reconnection and restoration. Such costs and expenses shall be
considered as charges for sewerage treatment services and may be collected in
accordance with the provisions of IC 36-9-23-31 through 36-9-23-34 and §§
50.70 through
50.74.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.05 EXTENSIONS OF SEWERS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The installation, construction or extension of sanitary sewers by private
developers or by the town outside the corporate limits of the town and
connection of said sanitary sewers into the town's sewage system from, by, to
or for properties located outside such limits is prohibited, except with the
approval of the Town Council by duly enacted resolution, provided that a
resolution ratifying an agreement and/or contract for such construction and
connection, shall be deemed to constitute such approval.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.06 CONNECTIONS TO SEWERAGE SYSTEM BY CERTAIN OUT-OF-TOWN PROPERTIES.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
50.05, the Town Council shall have the authority to permit a property located
outside the corporate limits of the town to connect to an existing sanitary
sewer which is part of the town's sewerage system, when the property abuts,
adjoins or is immediately contiguous to the street, alley or easement in which
such sewer is located and provided the property owner or occupant has complied
with the requirements prescribed by §
50.04.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Town Council or by
the Control Authority with the approval of the Town Council. Whenever said
agent shall deem it appropriate to charge a landowner with a violation(s) of
this chapter, he shall issue to such landowner a notice of violation and/or
summons, which shall be processed according to the provisions of IC 34-4-32-1.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
Editor’s note:
   IC 34-4 was repealed by P.L. 1-1998, Sec. 221.
§ 50.08 DAMAGE TO CITY PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person, firm or corporation to
maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, remove, deface or
tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the town
sewage system.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.09 DILUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to increase the use
of potable water or process water in any way, or mix separate wastestreams for
the purpose of diluting a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with applicable standards.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.10 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each discharger must provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited or regulated materials or substances to sewers of the town. Where
necessary, procedures and facilities to prevent the accidental discharge of
prohibited materials must be provided and maintained at the discharger's
expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the town for review and be approved by
the town before construction of the facility. Review and approval of the plans
and operating procedures by the town shall not relieve the discharger from
responsibility to modify its facility as necessary to meet applicable federal,
state and local requirements.
   (B)   Dischargers shall notify the Superintendent, or his representative,
immediately when a SLUG LOAD or accidental discharge occurs. A written report
shall be submitted within five days of the incident. The notification must
include the location of the discharge, date and time of occurrence, type of
waste, concentration, volume and corrective actions taken. Any industrial user
who discharges a SLUG LOAD of prohibited materials will be liable for any
expense, including loss or damage to the Water Pollution Control Utility
sewerage system in addition to the amount of any fines imposed upon the town
under state or federal law.
   (C)   Signs must be permanently posted in conspicuous places on the
discharger's premises, advising employees whom to call in the event of an
accidental discharge. Employers shall instruct all employees who may cause or
discover such a discharge as to the emergency notifications procedures.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.11 DUMPING OF WASTES PROHIBITED.
   The Town Council shall prohibit dumping of wastes into the town's sewerage
system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation of the
sewerage treatment works of said town, or to require methods effecting
pretreatment of said wastes to reduce the characteristics of the waste
satisfactory to the Council.
(Ord. 01-001, passed 3-5-01)
§ 50.12 HUNTERTOWN SEWAGE SERVICE AREA ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Huntertown Sewage Service Area is hereby defined and established
as the area generally described as bounded on the north by the Allen County
line beginning at its intersection with the centerline of Coldwater Road,
thence west to a point in Section 3 of the Eel River Township established by
the extension of the centerline of the Johnson Road in Eel River Township to
its intersection with the Allen County line, thence south through Sections 3,
10, 15, 22, and 27 of the Eel River Township along the line so established to
the point where it meets the intersection the centerline of Carroll Road in Eel
River Township, thence east along the centerline of the Carroll Road to a point
at which the center line intersects the east line of Section 29 in Perry
Township, thence north on and along said east line of Section 29 in Perry
Township and the centerline of Dunton Road to the south right-of-way of Gump
Road in Section 16 in Perry Township, thence east along said south right-of-way
to the east boundary line of the Timber Ridge Group, LLC property (Parcel ID
No. 02-02-16-451-001.000-057) platted as Timber Ridge Subdivision, thence south
on and along said property line to the south property line of said Timber Ridge
Group, LLC, thence east along the south boundary line of Cedar Canyons
Elementary School to the centerline of Coldwater Road, thence north on and
along the center line of Coldwater Road to the point of beginning, all as
depicted on the schematic which is attached to Ordinance 16-003 as Exhibit “A”,
which shall control over the foregoing general description.
   (B)   As of October 21, 2013, the town shall hold an exclusive license to
provide sanitary sewage service within the Huntertown Sewage Service Area, and
the Huntertown Sewer Utility shall be the exclusive provider of sewage service
to the public within the Huntertown Sewage Service Area, excepting only those
end service users (“customers”) which are served by the City of Fort Wayne
Sewer Utility with sewage service as of October 21, 2013.
   (C)   As of October 21, 2013, no other utilities are permitted to provide
sewage service within the Huntertown Sewage Service Area, and all other
utilities are expressly prohibited from furnishing sewage service to customers
within the Huntertown Sewer Service Area, except as provided in division (B)
above.
   (D)   No end service user shall permit a connection to sewer service within
the Huntertown Sewage Service Area by any other sewage service provider except
as permitted in division (B) above.
   (E)   The town’s existing rules and regulations for sewer service, as
amended from time to time, shall apply to and within the Huntertown Sewage
Service Area.
   (F)   Residences with properly working septic systems shall not be compelled
or mandated by the town to connect to the town’s wastewater system.
   (G)   The town shall not charge sewage rates to out-of-town customers that
are different from those rates charged to in-town sewage utility customers.
   (H)   The town reaffirms its willingness to cooperate and agree with the
Allen County Regional Water and Sewer District for the continuation of septic
relief operations in its current areas of service that may remain within the
Huntertown Sewage Service Area.
   (I)   The town acknowledges that it is required to pay Fort Wayne (Fort
Wayne City Utilities) the wholesale sewage rates and charges set forth in the
Commission’s May 20, 2015, order in Cause No. 44519, and to comply with the
terms and conditions outlined in that order until January 1, 2020, or until the
town’s wastewater treatment plant is completed and operational, whichever shall
first occur.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 10-21-13; Am. Ord. 15-001, passed 5-29-15; Am. Ord. 16-
003, passed 5-11-16) Penalty, see §
50.99
PERMITTED COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL WASTES
§ 50.20 PRIOR APPROVAL FOR CERTAIN WASTES.
   Review and acceptance by the Control Authority shall be obtained prior to
the discharge into the public sewers by any commercial or industrial class
customers of sewage whose wastes have:
   (A)   Either a B.O.D. content greater than 300 milligrams per liter or a
C.O.D. greater than 600 milligrams per liter.
   (B)   A suspended solids content greater than 300 milligrams per liter.
   (C)   A phosphorus content greater than 10 milligrams per liter.
   (D)   An ammonia content greater than 15 milligrams per liter.
   (E)   Other contaminants which from either nature or quantity will:
      (1)   Interfere with the operations of any portion of the sewage utility;
      (2)   Pass through the treatment works or otherwise be incompatible with
such works;
      (3)   Prevent the reclamation and/or recycling of municipal wastewaters
or sludge.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.21 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   When, after making such a review the Control Authority concludes that,
before the owner discharges waste into the public sewers, the owner must modify
or eliminate those constituents which would be harmful to the structures,
process or operations of any portion of the sewage utility or injurious to
health, then that owner shall either modify the wastes at the point of origin
or shall provide and operate, at owner's expense, such preliminary treatment
and processing facilities as may be deemed necessary to render owner's waste
acceptable for admission into the public sewers.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.22 PRIOR APPROVAL FOR PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment or processing facilities shall be submitted to
the Control Authority for examination and approval. No construction of such
facilities shall begin until the Superintendent has given written approval.
Such approval shall not exempt the person from the obligation to make further
reasonable adaptations of such facilities when such adaptations prove necessary
to secure the results of acceptable waste concentrations desired. The approval
of proposed facilities and/or equipment by the town does not in any way
guarantee that these facilities and/or equipment will function in the manner
described by their constructor or manufacturer, nor shall it relieve an owner,
firm or corporation of the responsibility of enlarging or otherwise modifying
such facilities to accomplish the intended purpose.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.23 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES OPERATION.
   Where such preliminary treatment facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained, continuously in satisfactory and effective operating condition by
the person at his own expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by
the Control Authority. The person shall maintain suitable operating records
which shall be open to inspection by the Control Authority, and shall submit to
the Control Authority such monthly summary reports of the character of the
influent and effluent as the Control Authority may require. All records and
reports shall be retained for a minimum of three years. All industry, whether
categorical or noncategorical industry, shall comply with all requirements of
40 CFR 403.12.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.24 CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   As part of this subchapter, the town shall enforce all federal categorical
pretreatment standards upon the categorical industries within the service area.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.25 PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS OF WASTE DISCHARGE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no owner shall discharge or cause or permit
to be discharged into the public sewer any of the following described
substances, wastes or waters.
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature greater than 140°F. or
causing the temperature at the influent to POTW to exceed 104°F.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 100 milligrams per liter of
grease, oils, fats and waxes.
   (C)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, mineral oil or any other
flammable or explosive solid, liquid or gas.
   (D)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which either alone or by
interaction with other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life or of preventing entry into the sewer for their maintenance and
repair.
   (E)   Any garbage that has not been properly pretreated and reduced per IC
1-1-116.
   (F)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, wood, metal, glass,
rags, feathers, tar, plastics, paunch manure, butchers offal or any other solid
or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewerage system or the Sewage
Treatment Plant.
   (G)   Any waters or wastes having a pH less than 6.0 or greater than 10.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or posing hazards
to the structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage utility.
   (H)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic substances, as defined under
Section 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act in sufficient quantity to
interfere with the biological process of the Sewage Treatment Plant or that
will pass through the plant into the receiving stream in amounts exceeding the
standards set by federal, interstate, state or other competent authority having
jurisdiction, or will prevent the disposal of the sludge by the plant in
accordance with Section 405 of said Act.
   (I)   Any toxic radioactive isotopes, without a special permit. The
radioactive isotopes of I 131 and P 32 used in hospitals are not prohibited, if
they are properly diluted before being discharged into the sewerage system, as
further defined in the General Rules and Regulations.
   (J)   Any waters or wastes that for a duration of 15 minutes or more have a
concentration of more than five times the average concentration of B.O.D. or
suspended solids of the user's sewage discharged during a 24-hour period of
normal operation.
   (K)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual provisions, attention and expense would be required to
handle such materials at the Sewage Treatment Plant, its pumping stations or
other facilities.
   (L)   Any waters or wastes containing incompatible pollutants as herein
described.
   (M) Any waters or wastes containing any toxic substances in quantities that
are sufficient to interfere with the biochemical processes of the Sewage
Treatment Plant, that will pass through the plant into the receiving waters, or
accumulate in the sludge in an amount exceeding the limitations, set forth by
any federal, state, interstate or local authority, whichever is more stringent.
Specifically excluded are any waters or wastes containing toxic ions,
compounds, or substances in concentrations or amounts exceeding the
limitations, set forth by the Town Council and published in the General Rules
and Regulations.
   (N)   Any bulk waste, either industrial or domestic, without prior written
approval of the Superintendent.
   (O)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed by the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye waste and vegetable tanning
solutions.
   (P)   The town reserves the right to refuse, deny or revoke the connections
of any user in the event the sewage service requirements of the users, in the
judgment of the Superintendent, could or would impose an excessive burden on
the utility or in the event the user is or has been in repeated violation of
this chapter. The town further reserves the right in the event of any emergency
to restrict the allowable discharge received from any or all large users of the
sewage system during the time of such emergency.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.26 RESPONSIBILITY FOR OBSTRUCTING OR DAMAGING SEWERS.
   If public sewer becomes obstructed or damaged because any of the
aforementioned substances were improperly discharged, the person or persons
responsible for such discharges shall reimburse the town for the expense
incurred by the town for cleaning out, repairing, rebuilding the sewer or for
any litigations or damage claims resulting therefrom, including legal fees and
court costs.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
CONTROL OF ADMISSIBLE INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL WASTES
§ 50.30 SUBMISSION OF DATA ON INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   (A)   Any owner who discharges industrial waste into the town's sewerage
system, either directly or indirectly, shall forthwith fill out and file with
the Control Authority an Industrial Waste Questionnaire, the form for which
will be furnished by the town in which he shall set out the quantity and
characteristics of the wastes discharged into the town's sewerage system. Any
owner desiring to establish a new connection to the public sewer or to
establish a new account with utility for the purpose of discharging industrial
or commercial waste shall first fill out and file with the Control Authority
such a questionnaire which shall set out the actual or predicted date relating
to the quantity and characteristics of the wastes to be discharged.
   (B)   Any industry who changes or proposes to change manufacturing or
pretreatment processes shall first notify the Control Authority, in writing,
and submit a new or revised Industrial Waste Questionnaire for review by the
Control Authority.
   (C)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation or
certification in any application, report or other documents required by the
municipal ordinance or other applicable regulations shall, upon conviction, be
punished by the imposition of a civil penalty as required by local and/or state
statutes.
   (D)   When special circumstances render it an unreasonable burden to comply
with the time schedule determined by the utility for the correction of any
industrial waste discharge problem, an extension of time, not to exceed 90
days, may be granted by the Control Authority upon presentation in writing of
an application for such relief.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.31 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data furnished to the Control Authority by the discharger
shall be made available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction, unless the discharger specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate as per 40 CFR 2.203 and 327 IAC 12-1-6 through 327 IAC 12-1-11 that
the release of such information would divulge information, methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets or proprietary information
of the discharger. However, under no circumstances may the volume nor the
components of the discharge be considered confidential. All requests, by the
discharger, for confidentiality of information shall be made in accordance to
and governed by the provisions of 327 IAC 12-1-6 and 40 CFR 2.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.32 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   Any owner who discharges or may discharge industrial wastes into public
sewer via any means such as floor drains, sinks, catch basins, and the like,
shall be required by the town to construct and maintain, at his own expense,
one or more control manholes, at a specified location or locations, to
facilitate the observation, measurement and sampling of owner's waste. Such
manholes shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the town. The Superintendent may also require the person to
install and maintain in any such manhole, at said person's expense, an approved
volume- measuring device. Plans and/or shop drawings for the installation of
control manholes and related equipment shall be approved by the Superintendent
before any construction is begun.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.33 GREASE AND SAND TRAPS.
   Whenever the Superintendent determines that interceptors or traps are needed
to protect the sewerage collection system or the Sewage Treatment Plant from
grease, oil, sand or similar substances occurring in the user's sewage and so
notifies the user, then such traps shall be promptly installed by the user, on
owner's lines, at owner's expense and shall be so maintained by owner that none
of such substances can be carried over into the public sewers. All traps or
interceptors shall meet the town's standards as to construction, location and
installation.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.34 WASTE SAMPLING.
   (A)   Any industrial user shall be subject to periodic inspection by the
town or the Control Authority for the purpose of determining compliance with
compliance limits, solvent management plans or spill prevention plans,
identifying dilution streams or to categorize regulated processes. These
inspections may consist of monitoring waste streams, inspection of the
premises, inspection and/or copying of production records, pretreatment
operating records and other records or data deemed necessary by the inspector
for the purposes stated above.
   (B)   The installation, operation and maintenance of the sampling facilities
shall be the responsibility of the owner discharging the wastes and shall be
subject to the approval of the Superintendent. Access to the sampling
facilities shall be granted, at all times, to the town or Control Authority.
   (C)   Where an owner's operations have security measures in force which
require proper identification and clearance before entry onto said owner's
property is granted, such owner or owners shall make the necessary arrangements
with their security personnel that upon showing of proper identification,
personnel from the town or the Control Authority shall be permitted to enter,
without delay, for the purpose of observing or monitoring of wastes being
discharged at a given point or points or that owner or owners shall install
suitable control manholes outside of the security area or areas which at all
times shall be immediately available to the town or Control Authority.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.35 WASTE ANALYSIS PROCEDURES AND CHARGES.
   Alternate methods for certain analyses of industrial wastes may be used
subject to mutual agreement between the Control Authority and the user. In the
event of a dispute between the Control Authority and the user as to the
characteristics, strength, toxic nature or other particulars of the sample
taken and analyzed by the Control Authority, either party may request that the
sample in dispute be analyzed by a mutually acceptable referee whose charges
shall be paid by the party requesting the analysis. Analyses made by the
Control Authority at the request of the user, shall be charged to the user
according to the utility's standard work order billing procedure. All such
analyses shall be binding in determining strength-of-waste surcharge and other
matters dependent upon the character and concentration of wastes.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.36 USE OF REPRESENTATIVE ANALYSIS.
   Until an adequate analysis of a representative sample of user's wastes has
been obtained, the Control Authority may, for the purpose of this chapter, make
a determination of a character and concentration of his wastes by using data
based on analyses of similar processes or data for his type of business that
are available from the United States Environmental Protection Agency or from
industry-recognized authoritative sources. This method, if selected by the
Control Authority, shall continue at the Control Authority's pleasure or until
an adequate analysis has been made.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
SERVICE CHARGES BASED ON WATER USAGE
§ 50.40 WATER OBTAINED FROM THE TOWN'S WATER UTILITY.
   The charges made for sewerage service rendered to each lot, parcel of real
estate or building having any connection with the town's sewerage system or
otherwise discharging sewage into the system, either directly or indirectly,
shall be based upon the quantity of water presumed to enter the public sewers
after being used in or on the property, as the quantity is measured by the
water meter or meters therein used by the town's water utility, except as
herein otherwise provided.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.41 WATER OBTAINED FROM OTHER SOURCES.
   Where the property obtains any part or all of the water used from sources
other than the town's water utility, the owner or the tenant may be required by
the town to install and maintain at his own expense a meter or meters
acceptable to the town for the quantity of water obtained from these other
sources.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.42 EXEMPT WATER.
   Where a significant portion of the metered water does not and cannot enter
the sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, the person having charge of
the property may request permission from the town to install at his own expense
either an approved meter or meters to determine the quantity of water that
cannot enter the sewerage system or an approved sewage-measuring device or
devices to determine the volume of sewage that actually enters the sewerage
system when appropriate. In any case the service charge shall be based on the
quantity of water that can or actually does enter the public sewers, but in no
case shall it be less than the minimum charge for the class of user served.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.43 METERING OF SEWAGE.
   The town may require a person to install and maintain at his own expense an
approved device to measure directly the volumes of wastes discharged to the
sewerage system if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered-water consumption records. The town shall inspect and approve such
installation and no such service, once installed, shall be removed without the
town approval.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
USER CHARGES
§ 50.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid waste resulting from any commercial,
manufacturing or industrial operation or process.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bath tubs, showers, household laundries, basement drains, garage floor drains,
bars, soda fountains, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains and stable floor
drains.
(Ord. 87-009, passed 11-9-87)
§ 50.51 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building which is, or will be, connected with the town’s
sanitary sewer system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes, water or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the
sanitary sewer system of the town, which rates and charges shall be payable as
hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount determinable as follows:
   (A)   The sewage rates shall be based upon the quantity of water used on or
in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges, as the same is
measured by the Water Utility meter there in use, except as herein otherwise
provided. The water usage schedule on which the amount of the rates and charges
shall be determined shall be as follows:
 
WATER USED PER MONTH RATE PER 1,000 GALLONS USAGE
All users            $8.78
 
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes a non-recurring system development
charge (the “SDC”) in the amount of $1,200, for each new connection to the
sewage system, which shall be in addition to any existing tap fee permit,
charge, or requirement for connection to the sewage system, the proceeds of
which shall be used as part of the net revues of the sewage works. The funds
collected hereunder shall be deposited into a System Development Charge
Fund–Sewer to be established by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   In addition, the monthly base charge for any service where the user is
a metered water customer shall be based on the size of the water meter and
shall be as follows:
MONTHLY BASE RATE
WATER METER SIZE PER MONTH
MONTHLY BASE RATE
WATER METER SIZE  PER MONTH
5/8 inch – 1 inc$25.50
1½ inch          $127.60
2 inch            $205.00
3 inch            $385.00
4 inch            $640.00
6 inch            $1,280.00
 
   (D)   In the event that the user is not a metered water customer, the
monthly charge shall be as follows:
 
PER SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING         MONTHLY RATE
(Presumed 5,000 gallons per month) $69.40
 
   (E)   (Reserved)
   (F)    In addition, a connection charge in the amount set forth for each
classification shall be paid by the owner of each lot, parcel of real estate or
building connecting to the sewage works, which charge the Town Council now
finds to be a reasonable and equitable proration of the cost of construction of
a local or lateral sewer adequate to serve the property so connecting.
KIND OF USER CONNECTION CHARGE
KIND OF USER                                                  CONNECTION CHARGE
Single-family dwelling                                        $500
Two-family dwelling                                           $720
Three-family dwelling                                         $890
Four-family dwelling                                          $1,000
Multiple-family dwelling in excess of four dwelling units     $1,000
   Plus for each unit over four available for rent         $220
Trailer courts - per trailer space available for rent         $417
Retail establishments, restaurants, taverns
   Fewer than 3 employees                                  $500
   3 – 5 employees                                       $1,000
   Each additional 5 employees or fraction thereof         $500
Lodges, veteran organizations, churches and other similar     $500
organizations
Professional offices, governmental offices, service business
such as insurance, banks, public utilities, and the like, and
industrial businesses
   Fewer than 4 employees                                  $500
   4 – 8 employees                                       $1,000
   9 – 15 employees                                      $1,500
   Each additional 10 employees or fraction thereof        $500
Gasoline service stations                                     $750
Drive-in eating establishments                                $1,500
Washeterias and laundromats per washer                        $25
Hospitals - per bed                                           $250
Nursing homes - per bed                                       $50
Hotels and motels - per room                                  $125
Schools - per enrolled pupil                                  $50
 
   (G)   In addition to any tap permit fee, charge or requirement for
connection to the sewage system, a $2,000 non-recurring connection fee per
equivalent residential unit (ERU) shall be paid at the time of connection for
any new connection to the sewage system. In accordance with IC 36-9-23-29(d),
proceeds of connection fees collected under this division shall be used as net
revenues of the sewage works.
   (H)   Special Wastewater Service Area; special area connection fee. The Town
Council hereby:
      (1)   Establishes a Special Wastewater Service Area bounded by Gump Road
on the south, Coldwater Road to the east, North County Line Road to the north,
and Indiana State Road 3 on the west within which all new connections to the
Huntertown Sewer Utility will be assessed and required to pay a special area
connection fee; and
      (2)   Establishes a non-recurring special area connection fee for each
new sewer connection within the Special Wastewater Service Area of $1,600 for
each equivalent residential unit (“ERU”), per connection, for residential
development, but not less than two and one-half ERUs, per acre for any non-
residential connection, which shall be paid at the time of final permit
approval and prior to the town’s release for construction, whichever is
applicable. The funds collected hereunder shall be in addition to any existing
tap fee permit, charge, or requirement for connection to the sewage system, and
the proceeds shall be used as part of the net revenues of the Sewage Works. The
funds collected hereunder shall be deposited into a Special Area Connection Fee
Fund–Sewer to be established by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 87-009, passed 11-9-87; Am. Ord. 01-001, passed 3-5-01; Am. Ord. 12-011,
passed 1-7-13; Am. Ord. 14-004, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 15-006, passed 11-19-
15; Am. Ord. 21-001, passed 2- -21; Am. Ord. 21-002, passed 2-16-21; Am. Ord.
2021-009, passed 8-16-21; Am. Ord. 2024-007, passed 6-17-24)
Editor’s note:
   Pursuant to Ord. 21-002, division (B) of this section shall be in full force
and effect from February 16, 2021 until February 16, 2031.
§ 50.52 BASIS FOR CHARGES.
   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably adjusted to
the service rendered, the town shall have the right by ordinance to base its
charges not only on the minimum flat rates established, but also on the
strength and character of the sewage and wastes which it is required to treat
and dispose of, either directly or indirectly, in such manner and by such
method as it may deem practicable in the light of the conditions and attending
circumstances of the case, in order to determine the proper charge.
(Ord. 87-009, passed 11-9-87)
§ 50.53 TOWN SUBJECT TO PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   The town shall be subject to and required to pay the rates and charges as
established.
(Ord. 87-009, passed 11-9-87)
§ 50.54 BILLING PROCEDURE; EXAMINATION OF COLLECTION RECORDS.
   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying the
properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owners, but
such billings shall in no way relieve the owner from liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of the properties served,
which are occupied by tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection
records of the town for the purpose of determining whether such rates and
charges have been paid by such tenants, provided that such examination shall be
made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
(Ord. 87-009, passed 11-9-87)
§ 50.55 ENFORCEMENT OF TOWN REGULATIONS.
   The rates and charges established by this subchapter shall be billed and
collected monthly by the town. The town may make and enforce such bylaws and
regulations as may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient
management of the town's sewage treatment works, for the construction and use
of house sewers and connections to the sewerage system, and for the regulation,
collection, rebating and refunding of such rates and charges.
(Ord. 87-009, passed 11-9-87)
§ 50.56 SURCHARGE FOR SANITARY SEWER SERVICE; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   This section shall be deemed supplemental to all other ordinances and
provisions thereof for enforcement and compliance purposes only and shall not
be deemed to be amendatory or recissionary with respect to same and further,
any charges, fees, fines or penalties hereinafter imposed or levied shall be in
addition to any charges, fees, fines or penalties heretofore in effect or which
may hereafter be imposed.
   (B)   A surcharge of $25 per month, per billing account, shall be imposed in
addition to all other charges heretofore authorized and imposed beginning July,
2011 by the Town Council.
   (C)   There shall be a moratorium upon the requirement for payment by any
persons for a period of six months from the time of imposition of the surcharge
as set forth in division (B) above. Further, any person who has, pursuant to
division (D) below, consented to the inspection of their respective premises
within 90 days of the date of the adoption of this section , shall not be
liable for payment until such inspection has been accomplished and the person
given the opportunity to bring the premises into compliance within the time
frame set out in division (D) below.
   (D)   A person may avoid liability for payment of the surcharge established
in division (B) above upon a showing that he or she is in compliance with all
provisions of §
50.04(F), which showing shall consist of the following procedures and
conditions as to each building or appurtenance connected to the sanitary sewer:
      (1)   Each person shall, as to each such building or appurtenance so
connected to the sanitary sewer, execute a “grant of permission” to the town to
come upon the property and within the premises thereon, of such persons to
inspect and/or perform sewer tests as may be deemed necessary by the town to
verify the compliance hereinbefore referred to;
      (2)   The grant of permission set forth in division (D)(1) shall be
deemed to include periodic inspections and/or tests as may be determined to be
necessary by the town to maintain, ensure and monitor compliance with the
provisions of §
50.04(F);
      (3)   The term “Town of Huntertown” as used herein shall mean and include
such employees or designees of the Town of Huntertown, Indiana, as it shall,
from time to time, utilize in making the inspections and/or tests hereintofore
referred to. Such persons shall have on their persons, identification to verify
the fact that they in fact represent the town for said purposes.
      (4)   The inspections shall be made upon reasonable notice of at least 48
hours. There shall be no fee charged for the inspections.
      (5)   If, upon the initial inspection contemplated by division (D)(1)
above to verify compliance, a person is in fact found to be not in compliance,
the person shall be given 30 days from the date of the inspection to so comply.
      (6)   Upon the sale or transfer of ownership of the real property to
which this section applies, when establishing a new sanitary sewer account, the
owner shall execute a consent for inspection, or be subject to the surcharges
herein imposed.
   (E)   The Town Council has determined that the measures heretofore set out
are a reasonable means of ensuring compliance with §
50.04(F) and are further necessary to protect and ensure the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town and surrounding areas.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 6-20-11) Penalty, see §
50.99
STRENGTH-OF-WASTES SURCHARGES
§ 50.60 LIABILITY FOR SURCHARGE.
   Each user discharging wastes into the sewerage system shall be subject to a
strength-of-wastes surcharge, in addition to other sewage service charges
imposed by this chapter, based on the following minimum strength characteristic
to the extent that such wastes are in concentrations greater than:
   (A)   Biochemical oxygen demand (B.O.D.) of 300 milligrams per liter.
   (B)   Chemical oxygen demand (C.O.D.) of 600 milligrams per liter.
   (C)   Suspended solids content of 300 milligrams per liter.
   (D)   Phosphorus content of ten milligrams per liter.
   (E)   Ammonia (NH3) content of 15 milligrams per liter.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.61 COMPUTATION OF SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The surcharge shall be determined as follows:
The excess pounds of B.O.D. or C.O.D. (whichever results in the higher charge),
suspended solids, phosphorus and ammonia will each be computed by first
multiplying the user's billing sewage volume measured in units of 100 cubic
feet for the current billing period by the factor 0.0062321 and then
multiplying this product by the difference between (a) the concentrations
measured in milligrams per liter of the B.O.D. (or C.O.D.), suspended solids,
phosphorus and ammonia respectively in the user's sewage and (b) the allowed
concentrations set out in § 50.60. The surcharge for each constituent will then
be determined by multiplying the excess pounds of each constituent by the
appropriate rate of surcharge which are as follows:
   Cents Per Pound
   Suspended Solids - (SS)    4.17
   Biochemical Oxygen Demand - (B.O.D.)    4.63
   Phosphorus - (P)   37.61
   Ammonia - (NH3)   11.41
   (B)   In the event C.O.D. measurement is used, as hereinbefore provided, 50%
of the excess pounds measured will be used to compute the equivalent B.O.D.
charge.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.62 WASTE EVALUATION CHARGES.
   All users discharging wastes into the system requiring continuing
surveillance sampling and waste evaluation shall be subject to a monthly fixed
charge to cover the costs of such service in the amount of $100 per discharge
point.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.63 REVISION OF RATES OF SURCHARGE.
   Prior to May 1 of each year, the Clerk-Treasurer of the town utilities and
an independent certified public accountant employed for that purpose shall
submit to the Town Council a comparison of the calculated unit costs for
removing B.O.D., suspended solids, phosphorus and ammonia from the Sewage
Treatment Plant influent during the previous calendar year with the unit
charges currently in effect in order that the Council may determine whether the
current rates of surcharge are adequate or should be changed and request
legislative enactment of said changes by the Town Council.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
BILLING OF SERVICE CHARGES
§ 50.65 BILLING PERIOD.
   (A)   Charges for sewerage service shall be computed and billed by the
Utilities Office of the town. Bills shall be rendered approximately monthly,
unless additional billing is required to reflect customer changes, meter
changes, service termination, initial billings or is otherwise required to
adjust billing cycles.
   (B)   Billings for sewerage service shall be rendered with and shall be due
and payable on the same due date as billings for water service to the same
premises, if any, and if none, then within such billing cycle as the utility
may determine.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.66 LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT.
   (A)   Charges for sewerage service shall be billed to the person being
billed for water service, if any, unless by contract with the utility, another
person assumes responsibility for payment. Notwithstanding billing to, and
assumption of responsibility by any person, charges for sewerage service shall
remain the responsibility of the owner of the real estate, who shall hold the
utility harmless from any loss occasioned by the delinquency of the person
billed, including all penalties, recording fees, attorney's fees, interest and
court costs, if any.
   (B)   The owner of the real estate shall have the right to examine the
utility's records of billing and collection to ascertain whether such charges
have been paid, and the amount thereof.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall permit the owner, or any person other
than the person being billed, to inspect, examine or otherwise obtain
confidential information including the income, employment, finances or social
security number of the person being billed.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.67 FIRST BILLINGS.
   The rates, charges and surcharges fixed in this chapter shall extend to and
cover any additional premises hereafter served, without hearing or notice. If
the first billing to a new user covers a period other than a full billing
month, then the charges for sewerage service for such billing shall be made in
accordance with standard practice employed by the town's water utility.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.68 TOWN SUBJECT TO CHARGES.
   For sewerage service rendered to the town, or any department, structure or
property, thereof, the town shall be subject to the same rates and charges
herein established for other persons, or to rates and charges established in
harmony herewith.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS
§ 50.70 HOW DELINQUENCIES ARISE.
   Charges for sewerage service levied pursuant to this chapter shall be due
and payable on or before the due date stated on the bill. Any charges for
sewerage service not paid by the due date shall be delinquent, and may be
collected, with any applied penalty, recording fees, service charges,
attorney's fees, interest and court costs, if any, in accordance with this
chapter and with 10% of the amount of the charges for sewerage service shall be
attached to the delinquent charges.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.71 COLLECTION THROUGH SHUTTING OFF WATER SERVICE.
   Where the property having a delinquent account for charges for sewerage
service is served by the town's water utility, the utility may, after
reasonable notice to the person being billed, as provided by the rules and
regulations of the utility adopted by the Town Council, shut off the water
service to the property. Water service shall not be restored until the
delinquent account, together with the costs of turning off and turning on the
water, shall have been paid.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.72 COLLECTION THROUGH TERMINATING SEWER SERVICE.
   In addition to all other remedies provided, the utility may after reasonable
notice to the person being billed, as provided by the rules and regulations of
the utility adopted by the Town Council, terminate sewerage service to the
property. Sewerage service shall not be restored until the delinquent account,
together with costs of terminating and reconnecting the sewer service, shall
have been paid.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.73 LIST OF DELINQUENT FEES AND PENALTIES; TAX DUPLICATES COLLECTION.
   Delinquent charges for sewerage services, and applied penalties, recording
fees and service charges may be made a lien upon the property and may be
collected in accordance with the provisions of IC 36-9- 23-32 and 36-9-23-33.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.74 COLLECTION THROUGH COURT ACTIONS.
   In addition to the foregoing remedies, the utility may recover the amount of
the charges for sewerage services, penalty and a reasonable attorney's fee in a
civil action, and may foreclose a lien established by this chapter in
accordance with IC 36-9-23-34.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
ACCOUNTING FOR SEWERAGE SERVICE CHARGES
§ 50.75 ACCOUNTING FOR SEWERAGE SERVICE CHARGES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish and maintain for as long as user charges
and surcharges are collected under the rate schedule instituted herein,
accounts for the various funds created under Ordinance No. 87-008 adopted on
October 22, 1987, and those continued under said ordinance from Ordinance No.
20 adopted June 24, 1968, as required by prior ordinances relating to the
issuance of sewage works revenue bonds now outstanding and further in
accordance with the laws of the state relative to the deposit and disbursement
of public funds.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88)
SEWER UTILITY; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.80 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABLE. Abutting the property, crossing the property, within any easement
or public right-of- way abutting the property or within 300 feet of the
property.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. Occurs when one or more of the conditions listed
in §
50.88 apply to any industrial or commercial user.
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.81 LIMITATION OF CONCENTRATIONS PERMITTED IN INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
50.25(M), the Town Council in order to protect the operation of the Control
Authority Water Pollution Control Plant, the disposal of its sludge, and its
discharge to the receiving stream, hereby limits the discharger of toxic ions,
compounds and substances entering the town's sewage system not to exceed the
concentrations listed below:
                                  Concentration
Constituent                                (Milligrams per Liter)
Arsenic   0.10
Barium   2.00
Cadmium   0.70
Chlorine   10.00
Chromium (Hexavalent)   0.50
Chromium (Total)   10.00
Copper   2.00
Cyanide   1.20
Fluoride   0.50
Lead   0.60
Manganese   1.00
Mercury   0.01
Nickel   3.00
Phenol   1.00
Selenium   0.02
Silver   0.30
Sulfide   10.00
Tin   2.00
Zinc   6.00
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.82 MAJOR INDUSTRIAL USER.
   (A)   When an industry has been determined by the Superintendent to be a
"major industrial user", the Superintendent shall notify such industry and
require the installation, within 120 days, of flow-metering equipment for the
purpose of determining the sewage flow or flows to the municipal sewer.
   (B)   The specifications for any flow metering device and plans for
installation shall be submitted and approved by the Superintendent prior to its
installation.
   (C)   The responsibility for installation and maintenance of such equipment
shall be determined by the Town Council and the cost be borne by the owner.
   (D)   The Town Council may, upon application and proof of economic hardship
or other reason, extend the time within which such equipment must be installed.
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.83 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   (A)   Any owner who discharges or may discharge industrial wastes into a
public sewer via any means such as floor drains, sinks, catch basins, and the
like, shall be required by the Superintendent to construct and maintain, at his
own expense, one or more control manholes, at a specified location or
locations, to facilitate the observation, measurement and sampling of owner's
waste. Such manholes shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the Control Authority. The Superintendent may also require,
at said person's expense, an approved volume-measuring device. Plans and/or
shop drawings for the installation of control manholes and related equipment
shall be approved by the Superintendent before any construction is begun.
   (B)   Any building sewer which will have or has the potential of discharging
prohibited wastes and/or wastes in excess of normal domestic sewage shall have
a control manhole installed in accordance with either the "Specifications and
Standard Drawings", revised 1980, of the Water Pollution Control Utility or an
approved equal.
   (C)   The utility has deemed it necessary to require the installation of a
control manhole in all building sewer lines where the Superintendent has
determined that any of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Abnormal maintenance of the sewer has been required to prevent and/
or correct the occurrence of blockages, back-ups, and the like, which have
resulted in property damage; and evidence indicates that the abnormal
maintenance is the result of the discharge of wastes in excess of limitations
set forth in §§
50.01 through
50.43.
      (2)   There exists a concentration of persons discharging wastes into a
public sewer through a building sewer or sewers not having control manholes.
      (3)   The results of laboratory analysis have demonstrated that the
strength of wastes being discharged into the public sewer are in excess of
limitations set forth in §§
50.01 through
50.43.
   (D)   The Superintendent shall notify, in writing, any person who has been
identified to be in violation of any of the above mentioned conditions and
shall require such person or persons to install one or more control manholes.
   (E)   Following notification, a control manhole shall be installed within
120 days.
   (F)   Control manholes shall be located upon private property, shall receive
all wastes from the property and shall be readily accessible to representatives
of the utility in order to facilitate observations, measurement and sampling of
the waste being discharged.
   (G)   The need for the installation and maintenance of control manholes and
flow-metering equipment shall be determined by the Town Council and the cost
for installation will be borne by the owner.
   (H)   The Town Council may, upon application and proof of economic hardship
or other reason, extend the time within which such equipment must be installed.
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.84 GREASE AND SAND TRAPS.
   (A)   Whenever the Superintendent determines that interceptors or traps are
needed to protect the sewerage collection system or the Sewage Treatment Plant
from grease, oil, sand or similar substances occurring in the user's sewage and
so notifies the user, then such traps shall be promptly installed by the user,
on owner's lines, at owner's expense and shall be so maintained by owner that
none of such substances can be carried over into the public sewers. All traps
or interceptors shall meet the Control Authority's standards as to
construction, location and installation.
   (B)   Any building sewer which will have or has the potential of discharging
waste containing grease, oil, sand or similar substances, having quantity and
characteristics above that of a normal single-family residence waste, shall
have a grease and/or sand trap installed in a manner to provide, at all times,
the effective removal of grease, oil, sand or similar substances before
discharge to the public sewer.
   (C)   The utility has deemed it necessary to require the installation of a
grease and/or sand trap in either the building sewer or within the building's
plumbing system in accordance with the "Uniform Plumbing Code", Latest Edition,
Chapter 7, minimum requirements where the Superintendent has determined that
any one of the following conditions exists:
      (1)   Abnormal maintenance of the sewer has been required to prevent the
occurrence of blockages, back-ups, and the like, resulting in property damage;
and evidence indicates that the cause of this abnormal maintenance is the
result of the discharge of prohibited wastes and/or wastes in excess of
limitations set out in §§
50.01 through
50.43.
      (2)   There exists a concentration of persons discharging prohibited
wastes into a public sewer without the benefit of any grease and/or sand trap.
      (3)   The results of laboratory analysis have demonstrated that the
strength of wastes being discharged into the public sewer is in excess of the
limitations set out in §§
50.01 through
50.43.
   (D)   The Superintendent shall notify, in writing, any person who has been
identified to be in violation of any of the above mentioned conditions and
shall require such person or persons to install grease and/or sand traps.
   (E)   Following notification, the grease and/or sand traps shall be
installed within 120 days.
   (F)   The need of and responsibility for the installation and maintenance of
grease and sand traps shall be determined by the Town Council and the cost will
be borne by the owner.
   (G)   The Town Council may, upon application and proof of economic hardship
or other reason, extend the time within which such equipment must be installed.
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.85 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Charges for sewerage service shall be computed and billed by the
town municipal utilities. Bills shall be rendered approximately monthly, unless
additional billing is required to reflect customer changes, meter changes,
service terminations, initial billings or is otherwise required to adjust
billing cycles.
      (2)   Billings for sewerage service shall be rendered with and shall be
due and payable on the same due date as billings for water service to the same
premises, if any, and if none, then within such billing cycle as the utility
may determine.
      (3)   Charges for sewerage service shall be billed to the person being
billed for water service, if any, unless by contract with the utility, another
person assumes responsibility for payment. Notwithstanding billing to, and
assumption of responsibility by any person, charges for sewerage service shall
remain the responsibility of the owner of the real estate, who shall hold the
utility harmless from any loss occasioned by the delinquency of the person
billed, including all penalties, recording fees, attorney's fees, interest and
court costs, if any.
      (4)   The owner of the real estate shall upon request to the Clerk-
Treasurer's office have the right to examine the utility's records of billing
and collection to ascertain whether such charges have been paid, and the amount
thereof.
      (5)   Nothing herein contained shall permit the owner, or any person
other than the person being billed, to inspect, examine or otherwise obtain
confidential information including the income, employment, finances or social
security number of the person being billed.
      (6)   Charges for sewerage service shall be due and payable on or before
the due date stated on the bill. Any charge for sewerage service not paid by
the due date shall be delinquent, and may be collected, with applied penalty,
recording fees, service charges, attorney's fees, interest and court costs, if
any, in accordance with §§
50.01 through
50.43 and with IC 36-9-23-31 through 36-9-23-34.
      (7)   The rates, charges and surcharges shall extend to and cover any
additional premises hereafter served, without hearing or notice. If the first
billing to a new user covers a period other than a full billing month, then the
charges for sewerage service for such billing shall be made in accordance with
standard practice employed by the town's water utility.
      (8)   Sewer billing shall commence with the billing for water service
(the meter set date or date of occupancy whichever shall first occur).
      (9)   In the event the sewer user is not a metered water customer, flat
charges shall be imposed and charged as follows:
         (a)   Residential. Flat charges as established for in-town or out-of-
town service; multi- family dwellings shall be billed at the appropriate flat
rate multiplied by the number of units accommodated.
         (b)   Commercial and industrial. The Town Council shall determine
whether the account shall be billed on a flat rate or whether a water or
sewerage meter is required. Such flat charges shall be determined by the
Superintendent or his designee. Any required meters shall be installed at the
owner's expenses.
         (c)   The utility shall retain documentation supporting its estimates
and the billings based thereon. Such determination of billings may be reviewed
and adjusted by the utility at any time. However, no adjustment, additional
charge or refund may be made more than six years after the date of the billing
sought to be adjusted.
      (10)   Any property found to be connected to a public sewer for the
discharge of sewage without payment therefor shall be placed on monthly
billings immediately, and the user of the service shall be back-billed for the
period of use either at the metered use charge or the monthly flat charge set
out in §§
50.01 through
50.43.
      (11)   Any property which has a public sewer available but is not
connected thereto shall be referred to the City-County Board of Health for
enforcement of applicable sanitary codes requiring connection to such public
sewer.
   (B)   Delinquencies.
      (1)   A penalty of 10% of the amount of the charges for sewerage service
shall be attached to the delinquent charges.
      (2)   Where the property having a delinquent account for charges for
sewerage service is served by the town's water utility, the utilities may,
after reasonable notice to the person being billed, shut off water service to
the property. Water service shall not be restored until the delinquent account,
together
with the costs of turning off and turning on the water, shall have been paid.
      (3)   Delinquent charges for sewerage services, and applied penalties,
recording fees, and service charges may be made a lien upon the property and
may be collected in accordance with the provisions of IC 36-9-23-32 and 36-9-
23-33.
      (4)   In addition to all other remedies provided, the utility may, after
reasonable notice to the person being billed, terminate sewerage service to the
property. Sewerage service shall not be restored until the delinquent account,
together with the costs of terminating and reconnecting the sewer service,
shall have been paid.
      (5)   In addition to the foregoing remedies, the utility may recover the
amount of the charges for sewerage services, penalty, and a reasonable
attorney's fee in a civil action, and may foreclose a lien established by §§
50.01 through
50.43 in accordance with IC 36-9-23-34.
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.86 ENFORCEMENT.
   In accordance with §
50.07, the power to enforce the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.43 shall be vested in the Board of Public Works of the City of Fort Wayne
who has designated the Superintendent of the Water Pollution Control Plant
through the Industrial Waste Supervisor and such deputies as they, with the
approval of the Board of Public Works, may appoint.
   (A)   Issue notice of violations.
   (B)   Call administrative hearings for the purpose of establishing
compliance schedules.
   (C)   Forward complaints of noncompliance to the City Attorney. (Ord.,
passed to 10-4-88)
§ 50.87 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   It shall be the policy of the town in accordance with §
50.07 to enforce the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.43 relating to sewers and sewerage system, in the following manner.
   (A)   Notice of violation. All persons found to be in violation of any
portion of §§
50.01 through
50.43 shall be served with a written notice of violation by the Water Pollution
Control Plant Superintendent through the Industrial Waste Supervisor and such
deputies as they, with the approval of the Board of Public Works of the City of
Fort Wayne, may appoint, stating the nature of the violation or violations and
providing a reasonable period of time within which corrective action shall be
taken, except where continuation of the violation or violations may endanger
operating or maintenance of the sewers and sewerage system or may become a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Administrative hearing. Violators failing to respond to the notice of
violation shall be called before an Administrative Board of Hearing. An attempt
will be made to resolve the matter in an equitable fashion and an
administrative order will be drawn up specifying a schedule of compliance and/
or a compliance date. The Administrative Board shall consist of the
Superintendent, Supervisor of Industrial Waste or designated representative,
the Town Attorney, and a recording secretary.
   (C)   Court action. Violations of administrative orders shall be referred
immediately to the Town Attorney, for enforcement in the court of jurisdiction.
The referral shall include a request for the pursuit of the maximum penalty
applicable under §
50.07.
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.88 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PROCEDURE.
   The following conditions represent significant noncompliance by industrial
and commercial users and shall subject such noncomplying industrial and
commercial user to enforcement procedures initiated by the town, including but
not limited to closure of operations as authorized by state statute, §§
50.01 through
50.43 and these rules.
   (A)   Chronic violations. User has exceeded pollutant measurement standards
on 66% or more of user reports submitted and/or test samples taken during any
six-month period.
   (B)   Permit violations. Any violation of permit limitations which, either
of its own or in combination with discharges from other users causes
interference with the sewage treatment system, causes pass through in the
sewage treatment system in violation of 40 CFR 403, or endangers the health of
sewage treatment personnel or the public at large.
   (C)   Hazardous discharge. Any pollutant discharge contrary to the sewage
treatment ordinance, these rules, or 40 CFR, which creates an imminent danger
to health, welfare or the environment.
   (D)   Failure to meet compliance schedules. Failure to meet compliance
schedule milestones established in either a modified discharge permit or
enforcement order.
   (E)   Delinquent reporting. Failure to submit reports required under 40 CFR
403, state statutes, local ordinance or these rules within ten days from the
due date.
   (F)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
      (1)   Violations of maximum or average pollutant limitation for industry
specific categories. Otherwise known as categorical standards as defined in 40
CFR.
      (2)   Violations of prohibited discharges under the national pretreatment
standards (40 CFR 403.2).
      (3)   Violations of local limits outlined in §§
50.01 through
50.43 or in these general rules and regulations.
   (G)   Violation of any pollutant limit by the Technical Review Criteria
(TRC) Factor and defined in state, local or federal regulations.
      Nonconventional pollutants TRC factor = 1.2
      Conventional pollutants TRC factor = 1.4 (C.O.D., B.O.D., P, NH3, and TSS
are
      exempted, except where specifically regulated by local, state or federal
regulations).
   (H)   Falsification of information. Falsification of or withholding of
information submitted to the Fort
Wayne Water Pollution Control Utility by any industrial or commercial user.
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.89 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any party aggrieved by an order or determination of the Water Pollution
Control Plant, may, within 15 days after receipt of a notice informing such
party of the decision or order, appeal such decision or order to the Town
Council of the town by filing a petition seeking such appeal with the
Secretary/Treasurer of the town stating the basis of such appeal, including the
alleged error in the decision or order. After receipt of such petition the Town
Council, after due and proper notice to all parties, shall hold a hearing on
said petition, and at the conclusion thereof, or within 30 days thereafter,
enter a decision either affirming, denying, revising, amending, altering or
modifying such decision or order as the Town Council, by majority vote, shall
so rule. A party or person aggrieved by the Town Council shall have the right
to judicial review of such determination in accord with and pursuant to the
same provision of the State Administrative Adjudication Act (IC 4-22-1-14 et
seq.) as are applicable to appeals and review of decisions of agencies of the
state.
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.90 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.
   Under the provisions of 40 CRF 403.8 (f) (2) (viii), the town shall annually
publish in the local newspaper, a list of industrial and/or commercial users
who have significantly violated §§
50.01 through
50.43 or any state or federal pretreatment standard. A significant violation
shall mean a violation which remains uncorrected 45 days after notification of
noncompliance; which is part of a pattern of noncompliance over a 12-month
period; which involves a failure to accurately report noncompliance; or which
resulted in the Water Pollution Control Plant exercising its emergency
authority under 40 CRF 403.8 (f) (1) (iv) (B).
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.91 SUBMISSION OF DATA ON INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   In accordance with §
50.30, all industries affected by federal categorical standards shall file with
the Superintendent a priority pollutant scan for total toxic organics (TTO's)
at least bi-annually or whenever a process change occurs, whichever occurs
first.
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.92 PRESENT RULES SUPERCEDE PRIOR RULES.
   All rules and regulations heretofore promulgated by the utility governing
the service supplied by the utility are superceded and replaced by the
foregoing rules and regulations of the Water Pollution Control Utility and/or
other specifications, rules and regulations referred to herein and made a part
hereof.
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.93 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided to the utility by these rules and regulations shall
not be exclusive and shall be in addition to all other remedies which the
utility has in law or equity.
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.94 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   The Town Council reserves the right, by appropriate action, according to
state code, to amend, modify, delete, change or otherwise revise these rules
and regulations as it may deem, from time to time, to be desirable and/or
necessary.
(Ord., passed 10-4-88)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any landowner, firm or
corporation who violates or fails to comply with any provisions of this chapter
or of the rules and regulations of the Town Council pertaining thereto, shall
be deemed to have committed a Class B infraction and, upon conviction thereof,
be subject to a fine of up to $1,000 per infraction as provided by IC 34-4-32-
4. Each day that such violation or noncompliance continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates §
50.12 shall be subject to civil penalty of $2,000 per violation, and each day
of violation shall be deemed a separate violation.
   (C)   (1)   In the event a person is found to be in compliance with §
50.56 and, upon subsequent inspection is found not to be in compliance, the
person shall be liable for payment of an amount equal to the sum of the months
since June 20, 2011, multiplied by the monthly surcharge in effect during such
periods as the case may be; provided that such liability shall be reduced to
50% of the amount if the person complies within a period of ten days after
notice by the town of noncompliance.
      (2)   In the event a person is found to be in a state of noncompliance a
second or subsequent time, then the person shall be liable for a sum equal to
$500 plus an amount equal to the sum of the months since June 20, 2011, or
since the date of the last inspection in which the person was found to be in
compliance, as the case may be, multiplied by the monthly surcharge in effect
during such period.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88; Am. Ord. 11-05, passed 6-20-11; Am. Ord. 13-006,
passed 10-21-13)
CHAPTER 51: MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM
Section
Conditions for Water Service
   
51.01   Written application for service; nonassignment
   
51.02   Refusal of service by municipality
   
51.03   Cancellation of application or discontinuance of service upon violation
   
51.04   Mailing address for bills and notices listed in application
   
51.05   Written notice to discontinue service by customer
   
51.06   Installation and maintenance of service
   
51.07   Supervision of waterworks personnel for taps and connections
   
51.08   Location of waterworks equipment; accessibility
   
51.09   Installation, maintenance of service line by customer
   
51.10   Extensions to water lines
   
51.11   Check valves on boilers or pressure vessels
   
51.12   Granting of easement or right-of-way
   
51.13   Water for building or construction purposes; deposit
   
51.14   Special terms and conditions for public purposes
   
51.15   Control of use of water for industrial purposes
   
51.16   Sale of water prohibited
   
51.17   Interruption of service; notification; nonliability of town
   
51.18   Inspections at reasonable hours
   
51.19   Negligent acts; cost of repairs or replacements
   
51.20   Complaints
   
51.21   Amendments
   
51.22   Removal from jurisdiction of Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission
   
51.23   Private wells for use as potable water source in areas served by Water
Utility prohibited
   
51.24   Huntertown Water Service Area established
Water Meters
   
51.35   Installation, maintenance of meters by municipality
   
51.36   Installation of meters for commercial and new residential users; fee
   
51.37   When meters read
   
51.38   Meter failing to register
   
51.39   Testing of meter; charge
   
51.40   Water meter fund
Rates and Charges
   
51.50   Establishment of rates and charges for use of services of waterworks
system
   
51.51   Payment of bills; delinquency
   
51.52   Applications for water service; connection charge
   
51.53   Deposit
   
51.54   Duty of Clerk-Treasurer to render bills and collect charges for water
service
   
51.55   Disposition of funds; waterworks fund account
   
51.56   Proper system of accounts and records to be kept; audit
Backflow and Cross-Connections
   
51.65   Responsibility
   
51.66   Definitions
   
51.67   Water system requirements
   
51.68   Compliance
   
51.69   Inspection
   
51.70   Discontinuance of service
   
51.71   Installation of backflow prevention assembly
   
51.72   Type of protective assembly
   
51.73   Approval of backflow prevention assembly
   
51.74   Adoption of standards by reference
   
51.75   Duty to test and repair
   
51.76   Certification of testers
 
   
51.99   Penalty
CONDITIONS FOR WATER SERVICE
§ 51.01 WRITTEN APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; NONASSIGNMENT.
   A property owner or his agent, hereinafter called customer, must make
written application for water service at the office of the municipality; and
said application including service received thereunder is unassignable by the
customer.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.02 REFUSAL OF SERVICE BY MUNICIPALITY.
   The municipality may refuse service to persons, not presently a customer,
when in the opinion of the municipality the capacity of the facilities will not
permit such service.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.03 CANCELLATION OF APPLICATION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE UPON
VIOLATION.
   An application may be cancelled and/or water service discontinued by the
municipality for any violation of any rule, regulation or condition of service,
and especially for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Misrepresentation in the application as to the property or fixtures to
be supplied or use to be made of water.
   (B)   Failure to report to the municipality addition to the property or
fixtures to the supplies or additional use to be made of water.
   (C)   Resale or giving away of water.
   (D)   Waste or misuse of water due to improper or imperfect service pipes,
and/or fixtures, or failure to keep same in suitable state of repair.
   (E)   Tampering with meter, meter seal, service or valves, or permitting
such tampering by others.
   (F)   Connection, cross-connection or permitting same, of any separate water
supply to premises which receive water from the municipality.
   (G)   Nonpayment of bills.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.04 MAILING ADDRESS FOR BILLS AND NOTICES LISTED IN APPLICATION.
   Bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the
municipality will be mailed to the customer at the address listed on the
application, unless a change of address has been filed in writing at the
business office of the municipality; and the municipality shall not otherwise
be responsible for delivery of any bill or notice, nor will the customer be
excused from nonpayment of a bill or from any performance required in said
notice.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.05 WRITTEN NOTICE TO DISCONTINUE SERVICE BY CUSTOMER.
   Any customer desiring to discontinue water service to his premises for any
reason must give notice of discontinuance in writing at the office of the
waterworks system; otherwise, the customer shall remain liable for all water
used and service rendered by the municipality until said notice is received by
the municipality.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.06 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE.
   The municipality shall install and maintain at its expense that portion of
the service from the main to the lot or easement line, including the necessary
tap, fittings and shut-off valve. The customer shall install and maintain at
his expense that portion of the service from said lot or easement line to his
premises, including a stop and waste cock at the end of the house side of his
service. The minimum earth cover of the customer’s service shall be three feet.
The municipality shall determine the size and kind of service to be installed.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.07 SUPERVISION OF WATERWORKS PERSONNEL FOR TAPS AND CONNECTIONS.
   All taps and connections to the mains of the municipality shall be made by
and/or under the direction and supervision of waterworks personnel.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.08 LOCATION OF WATERWORKS EQUIPMENT; ACCESSIBILITY.
   Piping on the premises of a customer must be so installed that connections
are conveniently located with respect to the municipal lines and mains. The
customer shall provide a place of metering which is unobstructed and accessible
at all times. The customer shall furnish and maintain a cut-off valve on his
side of the meter and the municipality will provide a like valve on its side of
the meter.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.09 INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINE BY CUSTOMER.
   The customer’s service line shall be installed and maintained by the
customer at his own expense in a safe and efficient manner and in accordance
with the municipal rules and regulations and with the regulations of the State
Board of Health.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.10 EXTENSIONS TO WATER LINES.
   (A)   The municipality will construct extensions to its water lines to
points within its service area but the municipality shall not be required to
make such installations unless the customer pays to the municipality the entire
cost of the installation.
   (B)   All line extensions shall be evidenced by a contract signed by the
municipality and the person advancing funds for said extension.
   (C)   If refund of the advance is to be made, the following method shall
apply: 20% of the total gross revenue of water sales per year for each service
connected to the new extension described in the agreement, for a period not to
exceed five years, provided that the aggregate payments do not exceed the total
amount deposited.
   (D)   No refund shall be made from any revenue received from any lines
leading up to or beyond the particular line extension covered by contract.
   (E)   All decisions in connection with the manner of installation of any
extension and maintenance thereof shall remain in the exclusive control of the
municipality and such extension shall be the property of the municipality and
no other person shall have any right, title or interest therein.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75; Am. Ord. 05-006, passed 6-6-05)
§ 51.11 CHECK VALVES ON BOILERS OR PRESSURE VESSELS.
   Customers having boilers and/or pressure vessels receiving a supply of water
from the municipality must have a check valve on the water supply line and a
vacuum valve on the steamline to prevent collapse in case the water supply from
the municipality is discontinued or interrupted for any reason, with or without
notice.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.12 GRANTING OF EASEMENT OR RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Each customer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed to the municipality a permanent easement and right-of-way across any
property owned or controlled by the customer wherever said easement or right-
of-way is necessary for the municipal water facilities and lines, so as to be
able to furnish service to the customer.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.13 WATER FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Water for building or construction purposes will be furnished by meter
measurement, only after suitable deposit has been made, the minimum deposit
being $10; and the amount to be determined by the municipality, depending upon
the size of the construction purposes, as set forth in the permit, must pass
through one and the same meter.
   (B)   Water so supplied shall be discharged through a hose or pipe directly
upon material to be wet, or into a barrel or other container, and in no case
upon the ground or into or through a ditch or trench and all use of water by
other than applicant or use of water for any purpose or upon any premises not
so stated or described in the application must be prevented by the applicant,
or water service may be discontinued without notice.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.14 SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES.
   Special terms and conditions may be made where water is used by the
municipality or community for public purposes such as fire extinguishment,
public parks, and the like.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.15 CONTROL OF USE OF WATER FOR INDUSTRIAL PURPOSES.
   It shall be the policy of the town in connection with its waterworks system
to control its industrial expansion and its use of water for industrial
purposes so that the water system will not be in jeopardy of having
insufficient water for its residential users.
(Ord. 49, passed 2-3-75)
§ 51.16 SALE OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   Water furnished by the municipality may be used for domestic consumption by
the customer, members of his household and employees only. The customer shall
not sell or give the water to any other person.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.17 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE; NOTIFICATION; NONLIABILITY OF TOWN.
   (A)   The municipality shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate
interruption of service, and when such interruptions occur will endeavor to re-
establish service with the shortest possible delay. Whenever the service is
interrupted for the purpose of working on the distribution system or the
station equipment, all consumers affected by such interruption will be notified
in advance whenever it is possible to do so.
   (B)   The municipality shall in no event be held responsible for a claim
made against it by reason of the breaking of any main or service pipe, or by
reason of any other interruption of the supply of water caused by the breaking
of machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled
to damages nor have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption of
service which in the opinion of the municipality may be deemed necessary.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.18 INSPECTIONS AT REASONABLE HOURS.
   The premises receiving a supply of water and all service lines, meter,
remote meter reading device, and fixtures, including any and all fixtures
within the said premises shall at all reasonable hours be subject to inspection
by duly authorized employees of the municipality.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75; Am. Ord. 06-006, passed 3-25-06)
§ 51.19 NEGLIGENT ACTS; COST OF REPAIRS OR REPLACEMENTS.
   If any loss or damage to the property of the municipality or any accident or
injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the negligent or
wrongful act of the customer, a member of his or her household, his or her
agent or employee, the cost of the necessary repairs or replacements shall be
paid by the customer to the municipality and any liability otherwise resulting
shall be that of the customer.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.20 COMPLAINTS.
   Complaints may be made to the operator of the system and may be appealed to
the Town Council within ten days.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.21 AMENDMENTS.
   The rules of this chapter may be changed or amended.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75; Am. Ord. 05-006, passed 6-6-05)
§ 51.22 REMOVAL FROM JURISDICTION OF INDIANA REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   The Huntertown Water Utility is hereby removed from the jurisdiction of the
Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission for the approval of rates and charges and
of the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes or other evidence of indebtedness, in
accordance with the provisions of IC 8-1.5-3-9.1.
(Ord. 89-009, passed 10-10-89)
§ 51.23 PRIVATE WELLS FOR USE AS POTABLE WATER SOURCE IN AREAS SERVED BY WATER
UTILITY PROHIBITED.
   No residence or building connected to the Huntertown water system, or
situated where the Huntertown water system is available for connection to a
residence or building shall be served by a private well for domestic (potable)
water usage.
(Ord. 10-002A, passed 6-7-10)
§ 51.24 HUNTERTOWN WATER SERVICE AREA ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The “Huntertown Water Service Area” is hereby defined and established
as the area generally described as bounded on the north by the Allen County
line beginning at its intersection with the centerline of Coldwater Road,
thence west to a point in Section 3 of Eel River Township established by the
extension of the centerline of the Johnson Road in Eel River Township to its
intersection with the Allen County line, thence south through Sections 3, 10,
15, 22, and 27 of Eel River Township along the line so established to the point
where it meets the intersection the centerline of Carroll Road in Eel River
Township, thence east along the centerline of the Carroll Road to a point at
which the centerline intersects the east line of Section 29 in Perry Township,
thence north on and along said east line of Section 29 in Perry Township and
the centerline of Denton Road to the south right-of-way of Gump Road in Section
16 in Perry Township, thence east along said south right- of-way to the east
boundary line of the Timber Ridge Group, LLC property (Parcel ID No. 02-02-16-
451-001.000-057) platted as Timber Ridge Subdivision, thence south on and along
said property line to the south property line of said Timber Ridge Group, LLC,
thence east along the south boundary line of Cedar Canyons Elementary School to
the centerline of Coldwater Road, thence north on and along the center line of
Coldwater Road to the beginning, all as depicted on the schematic which is
attached to Ordinance 16-002 as Exhibit “A”, which shall control over the
foregoing general description.
   (B)   As of October 7, 2013, the town shall hold an exclusive license to
furnish potable water service within the Huntertown Water Service Area, and the
Huntertown Water Utility shall be the exclusive provider of potable water to
the public within the Huntertown Water Service Area, except only those end
service users (“customers”) which are served by the City of Fort Wayne Water
Utility with potable water as of October 7, 2013.
   (C)   As of October 7, 2013, no other utilities are permitted to provide
potable water service within the town, or within the Huntertown Water Service
Area, and all other utilities are expressly prohibited from furnishing potable
water service to customers within the town or within the Huntertown Water
Service Area, except as provided in division (B) above.
   (D)   No end service user shall permit a connection to potable water service
within the Huntertown Water Service Area by any other water service provider
except as permitted in division (B) of this section.
   (E)   The town's existing rules and regulations for water service, as
amended from time to time, shall apply to and within the Huntertown Water
Service Area.
   (F)   No residences with property working wells for potable drinking water
will be compelled to connect to the town’s water system.
   (G)   The town shall not charge water rates to out-of-town customers that
are different from those rates charged to in-town potable water customers.
(Ord. 13-004, passed 10-7-13; Am. Ord. 13-008, passed 11-18-13; Am. Ord. 15-
002, passed 5-29-15; Am. Ord. 16-002, passed --2016)
WATER METERS
§ 51.35 INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE OF METERS BY MUNICIPALITY.
   All customers of the Huntertown Water Utility shall have their water service
metered. All meters and remote reading devices shall be provided by the
municipality, and shall be installed at the expense of the customer. All
customers that do not install water meters within 30 days after this section
becomes effective shall have water service disconnected by the Huntertown Water
Utility. All customers that do not repair any existing water meter which is not
operating properly, upon 30 days’ written notice, shall have their water
service disconnected by the Huntertown Water Utility.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75; Am. Ord. 05-006, passed 6-6-05; Am. Ord. 05-016,
passed 12-5-05)
§ 51.36 INSTALLATION OF METERS FOR COMMERCIAL AND NEW RESIDENTIAL USERS; FEE.
   (A)   All commercial users of water of the municipal water system of the
town shall be metered by meters to be installed by the town as part of its
construction program, the same to be in effect immediately from the time the
water system is operable.
   (B)   All new residential users, who contract with the town for the use of
water after the water system becomes operable, shall have water meters
installed, and all water used by them shall be metered and billed accordingly.
(Ord. 49, passed 2-3-75; Am. Ord. 93-006, passed 7-6-93)
§ 51.37 WHEN METERS READ.
   Meters, when in use, will be read monthly between the twentieth and the
twenty-fifth of each month.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.38 METER FAILING TO REGISTER.
   Where a meter has ceased to register, or a meter reading could not be
obtained, the quantity of water consumed for billing purpose shall be based
upon an average of the prior six months’ consumption, and the conditions of
water service prevailing during the period in which the meter failed to
register.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.39 TESTING OF METER; CHARGE.
   Upon the written request of any customer, the meter serving said customer
shall be tested by the municipality. Such test will be made without charge to
the customer if the meter has not been tested within 12 months preceding the
requested test; otherwise, a charge of $10 will be made and then only if the
test indicates meter accuracy within the limits of 2%.
(Ord. 47, passed 1-7-75)
§ 51.40 WATER METER FUND.
   All earnings from user charges in excess of operation, maintenance, debt
service and debt coverage shall be deposited in a separate account designated
Water Meter Fund to be used only for the purchase and installation of water
meters and for emergency maintenance of the water system until all services are
metered. Thereafter said Fund shall terminate and any balance therein may be
used for constructing new mains and other work required to expand the water
system.
(Ord. 48, passed 1-7-75)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.50 ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES AND CHARGES FOR USE OF SERVICES OF WATERWORKS
SYSTEM.
   There is hereby established for the use of the service rendered by the
waterworks system of the town, the following rates and charges, based on the
use of water supplied by the waterworks system:
   (A)   Metered rate. The flow rate as shown in division (I) of this section
shall be in effect for all users defined as users with monthly metered flow.
   (B)   Base rate.  The base rate as shown in division (I) of this section
shall be in effect for all users defined as users with monthly metered flow.
   (C)   Estimated rate. For users of the water utility for which an accurate
meter reading was not available, the monthly charge shall be for the rate for
5,000 gallons of usage per month plus the base rate and the hydrant rental
surcharge.
   (D)   Fire hydrant rental.
      (1)   Public. The base rate as shown in division (I) shall be in effect
for all users defined as users where the waterworks system is available
regardless of a connection.
      (2)   Private sprinkler connection charge shall be as set forth in
division (I) of this section.
   (E)   Tapping fees. Each user, at the time he or she is connected with the
waterworks system, unless a tapping fee was previously paid, shall pay a
connection charge of $500. A $75 fee will be charged for a permit, together
with the actual costs of the meter.
(Ord. 88-008, passed 10-4-88; Am. Ord. 00-002, passed 3-6-00; Am. Ord. 09-003,
passed 6-15-09)
   (F)   Reconnection charge/service fee. In the event that service has been
discontinued because of nonpayment of any bill or for any other cause beyond
the control of the town, or delinquent amount not paid by 10:00 a.m. on stated
date, and service is again desired and allowed, a reconnection charge/service
fee of $25 shall be assessed against the customer.
   (G)   Temporary users.  Water furnished to temporary users shall be charged
for on the basis of estimated quantity used based on metered rates hereinbefore
set forth and based upon usage as estimated and established by the Waterworks
Superintendent.
   (H)   Other miscellaneous charges.
      (1)   Any check issued in payment to the waterworks for any reason and
returned to the waterworks for reason of insufficient funds shall be charged to
the customer at a rate of $25 per incident.
      (2)   All meters that are in the possession of any waterworks customer
and are damaged, for any reason, shall be replaced at the waterworks customer’s
expense and remain the property of the Waterworks Department. A service charge
of $25 would be charged for each occurrence.
      (3)   Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary herein, the use of
water from town’s Waterworks system on any site where a new improvement is
being constructed shall be governed as follows:
         (a)   Water from the town’s waterworks system shall not be utilized at
the construction site of a new improvement unless a permit is first obtained
from the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
         (b)   The owner of the real estate on which the new improvements are
being located shall be responsible for obtaining such permit although the owner
may appoint another party who may obtain such permit on the owner’s behalf.
         (c)   Once a permit is obtained, the owner/contractor may tap into the
waterworks system on the site of the new improvement(s). The actual tap into
the waterworks system must be inspected by the Waterworks Superintendent or his
or her nominee.
      (4)   To ensure uniformity and proper installation, Huntertown employees
will be required to install water meters for new construction. The town will
incur additional expenses resulting from installation of water meters of
Huntertown employees, resulting in the following charges:
 
Water Meter/Setter Rates
   5/8" x 3/4" radio read met   $260.00
   3/4" x 3/4" radio read met   $280.00
   1" radio read meter          $393.00
 
   (I)   Schedule of rates and charges.
Flow Rate
   per 1,000 gallons of usa$3.62
   plus, base rate as follows:
Base Rate                     Monthly Base Rate
   5/8" - 1" water meter   $ 16.21
   1-1/2" water meter      82.17
   2" water meter          129.71
   3" water meter          243.17
   4" water meter          405.20
   6" water meter          810.57
 
Hydrant Rental Surcharge
Hydrant Rental Surcharge
   In addition to the metered rate and applicable base rate, the following
monthly charge will apply to each bill in order to collect the town’s
municipal hydrant rental.
   (1)   Public
Meter Size Equivalency Factor Charge per Equivalent Connection Monthly Charge
5/8" – 1"1.0                $ 2.43                           $ 2.43
1-1/4"     4.0                2.21                             9.72
1-1/2"     5.0                2.21                             12.16
2"         8.0                2.21                             19.45
3"         15.0               2.21                             36.47
4"         25.0               2.21                             60.78
   (2)   Private sprinkler connection (per annum) - $1,361.69
 
   (J)   Surcharge for water service; periodic inspections.
      (1)   This division (J) shall be deemed supplemental to all other
ordinances and provisions thereof for enforcement and compliance purposes only
and shall not be deemed to be amendatory or recissionary with respect to same
and further, any charges, fees, fines or penalties hereinafter imposed or
levied shall be in addition to any charges, fees, fines or penalties heretofore
in effect or which may hereafter be imposed.
      (2)   A surcharge of $50 per month, per billing account, shall be imposed
in addition to all other charges heretofore authorized and imposed beginning
July, 2011 by the Town Council.
      (3)   There shall be a moratorium upon the requirement for payment by any
persons for a period of six months from the time of imposition of the surcharge
as set forth in division (J)(2) above. Further, any person who has, pursuant to
division (J)(4) below, consented to the inspection of their respective premises
within 90 days of the date of the adoption of this division , shall not be
liable for payment until such inspection has been accomplished and the person
given the opportunity to bring the premises into compliance within the time
frame set out in division (B)(4) below.
      (4)   A person may avoid liability for payment of the surcharge
established in division (D)(2) above upon a showing that he or she is in
compliance with all provisions of Ordinances 47 and 49, and any
amendments thereto, which showing shall consist of the following procedures and
conditions as to each building or appurtenance receiving water service from the
Water Utility:
         (a)   Each person shall, as to each such building or appurtenance
receiving water from the Water Utility, execute a “grant of permission” to the
town to come upon the property and within the premises thereon, of such persons
to inspect and/or perform sewer tests as may be deemed necessary by the town to
verify the compliance hereinbefore referred to;
         (b)   The grant of permission set forth in division (J)(4)(a) shall be
deemed to include periodic inspections and/or tests as may be determined to be
necessary by the town to maintain, ensure and monitor compliance with the
provisions of Ordinances 47 and 49;
         (c)   The term “Town of Huntertown” as used herein shall mean and
include such employees or designees of the Town of Huntertown, Indiana, as it
shall, from time to time, utilize in making the inspections and/or tests
hereintofore referred to. Such persons shall have on their persons,
identification to verify the fact that they in fact represent the town for said
purposes.
         (d)   The inspections shall be made upon reasonable notice of at least
48 hours. There shall be no fee charged for the inspections.
         (e)   If, upon the initial inspection contemplated by division (J)(4)
(a) above to verify compliance, a person is in fact found to be not in
compliance, the person shall be given 30 days from the date of the inspection
to so comply.
         (f)   Upon the sale or transfer of ownership of the real property to
which this section applies, when establishing a new water account, the owner
shall execute a consent for inspection, or be subject to the surcharges herein
imposed.
      (5)   The Town Council has determined that the measures heretofore set
out are a reasonable means of ensuring compliance with Ordinances 47 and 49 and
are further necessary to protect and ensure the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the town and surrounding areas.
   (K)   System development charge.
      (1)   There shall be and there is hereby established for the use of the
service rendered by the waterworks system of the Town of Huntertown, a non-
recurring system development charge (the "SDC") in the amount of $2,500, for
each lot shall be paid by the developer at the pre-construction meeting, or by
the contractor at the time of connection to the water system, whichever first
occurs.
      (2)   The SDC funds collected hereunder shall be in addition to any rates
and charges based upon the use of the water supplied by the water utility, or
any tapping fees, reconnection, or service fees, as establish by Huntertown
Ordinance No. 05-015, as amended, which is ratified and approved.
      (3)   The SDC funds collected hereunder shall be used as part of the net
revenues of the water utility and shall be deposited into a system development
charge fund-water to be established by the Clerk-Treasurer to fund the
maintenance of expanded infrastructure and capital improvements to the water
utility occasioned by the demand for additional connections to the water
utility.
(Ord. 46, passed 1-7-75; Am. Ord. 84-008, passed 7-2-84; Am. Ord. 93- 008,
passed 9-27-93; Am. Ord. 97-004, passed 4-7-97; Am. Ord. 05-015, 12-5-05; Am.
Ord. 06-013, passed 10-16-06; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 6- 20-11; Res. 14-009,
passed 7-7-14; Am. Ord. 22-007, passed 6-20-22; Am. Ord. 24-004, passed 3-18-
24; Am. Ord. 24-005, passed 4-1-24) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.51 PAYMENT OF BILLS; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Bills for the charges as established in this subchapter contemplate a
regular monthly reading of the user's meter, and shall be sent monthly. In the
event that the user's meter reading is not possible on account of
inaccessibility of the remote reading device for whatever cause, reading may be
estimated for one month, and notice shall be sent to the user, by certified
mail, notifying them of the problem encountered, and that service will be
discontinued within 30 days following the mailing if the problem is not
remedied by the user. All bills shall be payable on the twenty-fifth day of the
month in which billed and shall be paid at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
If any charges for service of the waterworks system shall not have been paid by
the twenty-fifth day of the month in which it became due and payable, a
delinquent payment charge of 10% shall be added thereto and collected
therewith. If any such monthly bill shall remain unpaid on the twenty-first day
of the following month, the waterworks may discontinue service to any such
delinquent customer. If the twenty-first day of such month falls on a Saturday,
Sunday, or holiday, such discontinuance of service may be postponed until the
next working day. If any bill for the service of the waterworks system shall
remain unpaid, the water supply for the lot, parcel of land, or premise
affected shall be cut off and shall not be turned on again except on payment in
full of the delinquent charges therefor, in addition to the payment of a turn-
on/service charge of $25.
   (B)   A reasonable grace period following the delinquent date indicated on
the bill in which delinquent charges may be waived, may be granted by the
collection and billing authority to customers for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Delays in mail delivery, delays from collection of payments made at
off-premise collection sites and delays due to a holiday period;
      (2)   Incidents of the timing in receiving pension and/or Social Security
payments;
      (3)   A history in which the customer has not been late in making payment
in the previous 12 months; or
      (4)   Delay following the death of a customer or a delay of payment from
an estate of a decedent.
   (C)   All water charges shall attach to the premises served as well as to
the customer. The property owner shall be responsible for unpaid water charges
on any rental properties and on properties being purchased on contract. If
water service charges are left unpaid by a customer upon vacation of the
premises served, the utility shall withhold water service to said premises/
person until the charges are paid. Moving from one location to another in no
way absolves the customers from any unpaid charges incurred at a previous
location. A customer’s service may be discontinued at any location for failure
to pay any unpaid charges due, regardless of the premises with respect to which
the charges were incurred.
   (D)   Bills for irrigation systems that are separately metered shall be
rendered monthly with such billing activity to commence in May and continue
until the month of October. In all other months no bill will be rendered.
   (E)   Where water is taken through more than one meter, and where such
arrangement is for the convenience of the customer, that each meter shall be
read and billed separately, where water is taken from more than one main or
more than one meter for the convenience of the utility, then the meter readings
shall be aggregated and billed as one reading.
   (F)   Rental properties. The bill for all monthly utility services shall be
sent to the tenant at the specified address. However, the landlord may direct
the Clerk-Treasurer, in writing, to send the bill to an alternate address. If
said tenant’s service is disconnected due to nonpayment, the following will
occur:
      (1)   First occurrence: $25 turn-on/service charge will be assessed; all
past due amounts and fees must be paid in full before reconnection of service.
      (2)   Second occurrence: Future bills will be mailed to and considered
the responsibility of the landlord.
(Ord. 46, passed 1-7-75; Am. Ord. 46A, passed 12-1-75; Am. Ord. 84-006, passed
5-10-84; Am. Ord. 05-015, passed 12-5-05; Am. Ord. 06-008, passed 3-25-06)
§ 51.52 APPLICATIONS FOR WATER SERVICE; CONNECTION CHARGE.
   Applications for water service shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer upon
a form to be supplied by the town. New or moving customers applying for utility
service shall do so in person at the Clerk- Treasurer’s office before new
service is commenced.
(Ord. 46, passed 1-7-75; Am. Ord. 05-015, passed 12-5-05)
§ 51.53 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Deposit of $25 shall be required from all customers before service is
started. Such deposit shall be applied to any bill for water service delinquent
more than 30 days. Upon the disconnection of the water service, any balance of
such deposit shall be returned to the applicant without interest.
   (B)   If a current customer’s payment history reflects no delinquency within
the last 24 months, the deposit shall be refunded to the customer or credited
to the customer’s account without interest.
(Ord. 46, passed 1-7-75; Am. Ord. 05-015, passed 12-5-05; Am. Ord. 11-08,
passed 10-3-11)
§ 51.54 DUTY OF CLERK-TREASURER TO RENDER BILLS AND COLLECT CHARGES FOR WATER
SERVICE.
   It is hereby made the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer or such other person
designated for the purpose to render bills for water service and all other
charges in connection therewith and to collect all moneys due therefrom.
(Ord. 46, passed 1-7-75; Am. Ord. 05-015, passed 12-5-05)
§ 51.55 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS; WATERWORKS FUND ACCOUNT.
   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the water system shall
be paid to and held by the Clerk-Treasurer separate and apart from all other
funds of the town and all of said sums and all other funds and moneys incident
to the operation of said system, as may be delivered to the Clerk- Treasurer,
shall be deposited in a separate fund designated the Waterworks Fund Account.
The said Clerk-Treasurer shall administer said fund in every respect in a
manner provided by the laws of the state and all other laws pertaining thereto.
(Ord. 46, passed 1-7-75; Am. Ord. 05-015, passed 12-5-05)
§ 51.56 PROPER SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS TO BE KEPT; AUDIT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper records, books and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the water system, and at regular
annual intervals the Town Council shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the water system.
(Ord. 46, passed 1-7-75; Am. Ord. 05-015, passed 12-5-05)
BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.65 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Huntertown Water Utility (hereinafter "HWU") shall be responsible for
the protection of the public potable water distribution system from
contaminants or pollutants through the water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the HWU an approved backflow prevention assembly is required as
defined by 327 IAC 8-10, Rule 10 (at the customer's water service connection;
or, within the customer's private water system) for the safety of the water
system, the HWU shall give notice in writing by mail to said customer to
install such an approved backflow prevention assembly(s) at specific locations
(s) on their premises. The consumer shall install such approved assembly(s) at
the consumer's own expense; and, failure, refusal or inability on the part of
the customer to install, have tested and maintain said assembly(s) shall
constitute a grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such
requirements have been satisfactorily met.
(Ord. 14-011, passed 11-5-14)
§ 51.66 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing, fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of said vessel. An
approved air-gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe,
measured vertically, above the overflow rim of the vessel; and in no case less
than one inch.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the Huntertown Water Works as meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in this subchapter, or as suitable for the
proposed use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the utility's approved public water supply. These auxiliary waters
may include water from another utility's public potable water supply or any
natural source(s) such as a well, spring, river, stream, etc., or "used waters"
or "industrial fluids." These waters may be contaminated or polluted or they
may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the
water utility does not have sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either
backpressure or backsiphonage.
   BACKPRESSURE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
under pressure into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system
from any source or sources other than the intended source.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply caused by the reduction
of pressure in the potable water supply system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An approved assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water by sewage,
industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains
potable water and the other non-potable water or industrial fluids of
questionable safety, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur
into the potable water system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT. The installation of an approved
backflow prevention assembly at the water service connection to any customer's
premises where it is physically and economically unfeasible to find and
permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential cross-connections
within the customer's water system; or it shall mean the installation of an
approved backflow prevention assembly on the service line leading to and
supplying a portion of a customer's water system where there are actual or
potential cross-connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or
controlled at the point of the cross-connection.
   CROSS-CONNECTIONS CONTROLLED. A connection between a potable water system
and a non-potable water system with an air-gap or approved backflow prevention
assembly properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford
the protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly of two independently operating,
approved check valves with resilient seated shut-off valves on each end of the
check valves, plus properly located resilient seated test cocks for testing of
each check valve. The entire assembly shall meet the design and performance
specifications as determined by a laboratory and field evaluation program
resulting in an approval by a recognized and Huntertown Water Works approved
testing agency for backflow prevention assemblies. To be approved, these
assemblies must be readily accessible for in-line testing and maintenance.
Confined space installations will not be accepted.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in the water supply system
and its operation, which could create, or in the judgment of the Huntertown
Water Works, may create a danger to the health and well-being of the water
consumer.
   INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution, which
may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form
or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional or
plumbing hazard if introduced into an approved water supply. This may include,
but not be limited to: polluted or contaminated waters; all types of process
waters and "used water" originating from the public potable water system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating
acids and alkalines, circulating cooling waters connected to an open cooling
tower and/or cooling towers that are chemically or biologically treated or
stabilized with toxic substances; contaminated natural waters such as from
wells, springs, streams, rivers, irrigation canals or systems, etc.; oils,
gases, glycerin, paraffin, caustic and acid solutions and other liquid and
gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes or for fire-fighting
purposes.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water which is not safe for human consumption or which is
of questionable potability.
   PLUMBING HAZARD. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer's potable
water system that has not been properly protected by an approved air-gap or
approved backflow prevention assembly.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
   POLLUTIONAL HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the physical water
system but which would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable
or could cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but would not be
dangerous to health.
   POTABLE WATER. Any water which, according to recognized standards, is safe
for human consumption.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPAL ASSEMBLIES. An assembly of two independently
acting approved check valves together with a hydraulically operating,
mechanically independent differential pressure relief valve located between the
check valves and at the same time, below the first check valve, the unit shall
include properly located resilient seated test cocks and resilient seated shut-
off valves at each end of the assembly. The entire assembly shall meet the
design and performance specifications as determined by a laboratory and a field
evaluation program resulting in an approval by a recognized and Huntertown
Water Works-approved testing agency for backflow prevention assemblies. The
assembly shall operate to maintain the pressure in the zone between the check
valves at an acceptable level less than the pressure on the public water supply
side of the assembly. At cessation of a normal flow the pressure between the
two check valves shall be less than the pressure on the public water supply
side of the assembly. In case of leakage of either of the check valves the
differential relief valve shall operate to maintain the reduced pressure in the
zone between the check valves by discharging to the atmosphere. When the inlet
pressure is two pounds per square inch or less, the relief valve shall open to
the atmosphere. To be approved, these assemblies must be readily accessible for
inline testing and maintenance and be installed in a location where no part of
the assembly will be submerged. Confined space installations will not be
approved.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Huntertown Utilities who is vested
with the authority and responsibility for the implementation of an effective
cross-connection control program and for the enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer's
potable water system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a Water Utility from a public potable
water system to a consumer's water system after it has passed through the point
of delivery and is no longer under the sanitary control of the Water Utility.
   WATER SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system; i.e., where the Water Utility loses jurisdiction
and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the customer's
water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service connection,
then the service connection shall mean the downstream end of the meter,
provided the meter is installed outside of a building; i.e., in a meter pit or
vault. If the meter is installed inside a building, then the Water Utility's
jurisdiction terminates at the downstream end of the outside shut off valve to
the water service. There should be no unprotected takeoffs from the service
line ahead of any meter or ahead of any backflow prevention assembly. Service
connection shall also include water service connection from a fire hydrant and
all other temporary or emergency water service connections from the public
potable water system.
(Ord. 14-011, passed 11-5-14)
§ 51.67 WATER SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the Utility
System and the Customer System.
   (A)   The utility system shall consist of the source facilities and the
distribution system; and shall include all air-gaps or approved backflow
prevention assemblies properly installed and maintained, up to the point where
the customer's system begins. The source shall include all components of the
facilities utilized in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of
water to the distribution system. The distribution system shall include the
network of mains used for the delivery of water from the source to the
customer's system.
   (B)   The customer's system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the utility distribution system which are utilized in
conveying utility-delivered domestic water to points of use.
(Ord. 14-011, passed 11-5-14)
§ 51.68 COMPLIANCE.
   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or maintained
by the HWU unless the water supply is protected as required by state rules and
regulations and this subchapter. Service of water to any premises may be
discontinued by the HWU if a backflow prevention assembly required by this
subchapter is not installed, tested and maintained, or if it is found that a
backflow prevention assembly has been removed, bypassed, or if an unprotected
cross-connection exists on the premises. Service will not be restored until
such conditions or defects are corrected.
(Ord. 14-011, passed 11-5-14)
§ 51.69 INSPECTION.
   The customer's system should be open for inspection at all reasonable times
to authorized representatives of the Huntertown Water Works to determine
whether there exists cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violations of this subchapter or regulations which are adopted
through this subchapter.
(Ord. 14-011, passed 11-5-14)
§ 51.70 DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE.
   When a violation condition becomes known, the Superintendent may deny or
immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing for a physical
break in the service line until the customer has corrected the condition(s) in
conformance with the state statutes and Huntertown's ordinances relating to
plumbing and water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 14-011, passed 11-5-14)
§ 51.71 INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.
   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall also be installed on each
service line to a customer's water system at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line.
(Ord. 14-011, passed 11-5-14)
§ 51.72 TYPE OF PROTECTIVE ASSEMBLY.
   The type of protective assembly required shall depend upon the degree of
hazard which exists as follows:
   (A)   In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water supply,
the public water system shall be protected by an approved air gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly;
   (B)   In the case of any premises where there is water or a substance that
would be objectionable but not hazardous to health, if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
double check valve assembly;
   (C)   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous to
health such as to create an actual or potential hazard to the public water
system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved air-gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly. Examples of premises where these conditions will exist include, but
are not limited to sewage treatment plans, sewage pumping stations, chemical
manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries and plating plants;
   (D)   In the case of any premises where there are uncontrolled cross-
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly at the service connection;
   (E)   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements or
other prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete in-plant cross-connection survey, the public water system shall be
protected against backflow from the premises by either an approved air-gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly on each service to the premises;
   (F)   In the case of any premises having a lawn irrigation system, the
public water system shall be protected by an approved pressure vacuum breaker
backflow prevention assembly or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly;
   (G)   In the case of any premises having a fire service line, the public
water supply system shall be protected by an approved double detector check
valve assembly;
   (H)   All other premises not covered in divisions (A) through (G) shall be
required to install a non-testable dual check valve assembly for the protection
of the public water system; and
   (I)   Existing installations are not exempt from current rules and
regulations in this subchapter.
(Ord. 14-011, passed 11-5-14)
§ 51.73 APPROVAL OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.
   Any backflow prevention assembly required herein shall be a model and size
approved by the HWU. The term APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY shall mean
an assembly that has been manufactured in full conformance with the standards
established by the American Water Works Association (AWWA) entitled "AWWA C506-
84 Standards for Reduced Pressure Principle and Double Check Valve Backflow
Prevention Devices". Said assembly shall meet the laboratory and field
performance specifications of the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and
Hydraulic Research (FCCC&HR) of the University of Southern California
established by Specifications of Backflow Prevention Assemblies - Section 10 of
the most current issue of the MANUAL OF CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL. Final
approval shall be evidenced by a Certificate of Approval issued by an approved
testing laboratory certifying full compliance with the said AWWA standards and
FCCC&HR specifications.
(Ord. 14-011, passed 11-5-14)
§ 51.74 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   The AWWA and FCCC&HR standards and specifications specifically referenced in
§
51.73 are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 14-011, passed 11-5-14)
§ 51.75 DUTY TO TEST AND REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the customer-user at any premises where backflow
prevention assemblies are installed as stipulated in §
51.72(A) through (G) to have certified inspections and operational tests made
upon installation and at least once per year. In those instances where the HWU
Superintendent deems the hazard to be great enough, the superintendent may
require certified inspections at more frequent intervals. These inspections and
tests shall be at the expense of the water user and shall be performed by a
certified tester approved by the State of Indiana and the HWU. It shall be the
duty of the customer to see that these tests are made in a timely manner. If a
customer-user does not have its backflow prevention assembly tested within 30
days of the testing due date, HWU may discontinue water service to the premises
to maintain the safety of the public water system. These assemblies shall be
repaired, overhauled or replaced at the expense of the customer-user whenever
said assemblies are found to be defective. Records of such tests, repairs and
overhaul shall be kept by the customer-user and a copy furnished to HWU at:
Huntertown Water Utility c/o Utility Superintendent, 15617 Lima Road, PO Box
95, Huntertown, IN 46748.
(Ord. 14-011, passed 11-5-14)
§ 51.76 CERTIFICATION OF TESTERS.
   Certified testers shall be registered with the HWU and shall provide proof
to HWU of state registration. In addition, certified testers will provide proof
that test gauges used in testing backflow prevention assemblies have been
calibrated and certified annually. All inspection reports shall be made using
approved forms, either from HWU or approved by same.
(Ord. 14-011, passed 11-5-14)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event a person is found to be in compliance with §
51.50(J) and, upon subsequent inspection is found not to be in compliance, the
person shall be liable for payment of an amount equal to the sum of the months
since June 20, 2011, multiplied by the monthly surcharge in effect during such
periods as the case may be; provided that such liability shall be reduced to
50% of the amount if the person complies within a period of ten days after
notice by the town of noncompliance.
   (B)   In the event a person is found to be in a state of noncompliance a
second or subsequent time, then the person shall be liable for a sum equal to
$500 plus an amount equal to the sum of the months since June 20, 2011, or
since the date of the last inspection in which the person was found to be in
compliance, as the case may be, multiplied by the monthly surcharge in effect
during such period.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates §
51.24 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $2,000 per violation, and each day
of violation shall be deemed a separate violation.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
51.65 et seq. for which no other penalty is otherwise specifically provided
shall be fined not more than $ 1,000. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 6-20-11; Am. Ord. 13-008, passed 11-18-13; Am. Ord. 14-011,
passed 11-5-14)
CHAPTER 52: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
52.01   County provisions adopted by reference
   
52.02   County as town representative
§ 52.01 COUNTY PROVISIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Town Council adopts by reference and incorporates herein as part of this
Code of Ordinances, as if fully set out at length herein, Allen County Code
Title 19, Articles 1, 2 and 3, copies of which are attached to Ordinance No.
08-003 as Exhibits A, B and C, together with any amendments thereto, which
collectively shall be the Stormwater Management Ordinance for the citizens of
the Town of Huntertown. Copies of Ordinance 08-003, and the exhibits thereto,
are available for public inspection during normal business hours in the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 08-003, passed 5-5-08)
§ 52.02 COUNTY AS TOWN REPRESENTATIVE.
   The surveyor of Allen County is hereby designated as Huntertown’s
representative to collect all fees and to carry out all inspection, monitoring,
and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 08-003, passed 5-5-08)
CHAPTER 53: REFUSE
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Residential solid waste collection
   
53.03   Service fees
   
53.04   Refuse storage containers and the storage of refuse
   
53.05   Collection of recyclable materials
   
53.06   Freon
   
53.07   Enforcing authority
   
53.08   Residential yard waste collection
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AEROBIC. Living or occurring only in the presence of oxygen.
   BULKY WASTE. A large appliance, piece of furniture or waste material from a
residential source other than Freon waste items, construction debris or
hazardous waste, with a weight or volume greater than that allowed for
containers.
   COMPOST PILE. A storage area for a mass of organic waste decaying through an
aerobic degradation process under controlled conditions with the intention of
suing the resulting product as a soil conditioner. Materials in a compost pile
include soil, paper products, yard waste, nondairy and nonmeat food products
and/or nonmeat-eating animal waste. A compost pile is kept in an orderly
condition to control for odors and to prevent the blowing of debris. A compost
pile cannot be a potential transmission agent of disease or be maintained in
such a way which will attract vectors, rats, or other vermin.
   CURB SIDE RECYCLING.  Bi-weekly pick-up of discarded material as specified
by the Town including but not limited to newspapers, aluminum, glass, steel and
plastic containers which can be separated from municipal solid waste for the
purpose of recycling, but not including materials generated from and commonly
reused within an original manufacturing process.
   FREON WASTE ITEM. An appliance or other waste item of a type which
originally contained Freon or any other nonflammable gaseous or liquid
flourinated hydrocarbons used as a refrigerant, disposal of which is
specifically regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA).
   GARBAGE. Rejected food waste, including every waste accumulation of animal,
fruit, and vegetable matter, used or intended for food, or that attends the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or
vegetables, including food containers.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste designed as hazardous by the USEPA and/or the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management (IDEM).
   MOBILE HOME PARK. This term shall be defined consistent with IC 16-41-27-
4 and, for the purpose of this chapter, shall also include such areas
containing less than five mobile homes when all other elements of that
definition have been met.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual, living, sleeping, cooking or eating in or having
possession of a dwelling unit.
   OWNER. Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners in fee simple of a parcel of real estate
including the life tenant or life tenants if any;
      (2)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the County Recorder's
Office;
      (3)   The purchaser or purchasers of such real estate under a contract
for conditional sale thereof; or
      (4)   The person or persons in control of the property as the personal
representative, trustee, receiver or guardian of the owner.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, municipal
corporation, town, school town, school district, school corporation, county,
any consolidated unit of government, political subdivision, state agency, or
any other legal entity.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Ferrous and nonferrous (aluminum) cans, newspapers,
glass bottles, PET/HDPE plastic bottles and cardboard.
   RECYCLABLES. Items that are intended to be recycled.
   RECYCLE.  Process by which materials otherwise destined for disposal are
collected, reprocessed and remanufactured.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. A container holding recyclables.
   REFUSE. Discarded waste materials, in a solid or semi-solid state consisting
of garbage, rubbish or a combination thereof.
   REFUSE STORAGE CONTAINER. A watertight container (not larger than 100-gallon
capacity), constructed of metal or other durable material impervious to rodents
with a tight-fitting lid.
   REGULAR COLLECTION. The town's designated day for refuse and recycling
collection.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. The garbage and rubbish produced by a residential
unit.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A group of rooms located within a building or mobile home
and forming a single inhabitable unit with facilities which are used or are
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. This definition
also includes complexes containing four or fewer separate or contiguous single-
family dwelling units whose owner has not elected to procure commercial waste
removal by a registered hauler.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and non-
combustible materials excluding yard and garden waste, hazardous wastes,
infectious waste and tires.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass clippings, weeds, brush and other organic garden
debris. Shrubbery and tree trimmings, provided the trimmings are tied in
bundles which lengths do not exceed four feet, with the maximum diameter not to
exceed 12 inches, and the bundle not to exceed 35 lbs. in weight, shall not be
included in this definition of yard waste.
(Ord. 02-002, passed 5-20-02)
§ 53.02 RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   The town shall contract with a third party (hereinafter the “contractor”)
for the collection of residential solid waste and recycling materials. The
contractor shall have the exclusive right to collect residential solid waste
and recycling in the town.
(Ord. 02-002, passed 5-20-02)
§ 53.03 SERVICE FEES.
   Upon adoption of this section, the town shall implement the following fee
schedule and shall charge the correlative fee on a monthly basis, for the
service of weekly collection and disposal of residential municipal waste, and a
bi-weekly collection of recyclable material as contracted for by the town:
   (A)   Beginning January 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023: $15.25 per
month;
   (B)   Beginning January 1, 2024, through December 31, 2024: $15.75 per
month; and
   (C)   Beginning January 1, 2025, through December 31, 2025: $16.50 per
month.
(Ord. 02-001, passed 5-20-02; Am. Ord. 02-002, passed 5-20-02; Am. Ord. 05-017,
passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 10-007, passed 11-15-10; Am. Ord. 13-005, passed 10-
21-13; Am. Ord. 14-007, passed 9-15-14; Am. Ord. 15-005, passed 11-2-15; Am.
Ord. 16-017, passed 12-5-16; Am. Ord. 19-011, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 2022-
019, passed 12-5-22)
§ 53.04 REFUSE STORAGE CONTAINERS AND THE STORAGE OF REFUSE.
   (A)   A refuse storage container shall be provided by the contractor for
each residential unit.
   (B)   All refuse (except a compost pile) must be stored in refuse storage
containers.
   (C)   Yard waste shall not be placed in refuse storage containers for pick
up by the contractor.
   (D)   Between days of regular collection for solid waste items, the owner,
tenant, lessee, occupant, or agent of any property, commercial or residential,
shall provide a place to store refuse (including bulky waste), and recyclables,
which shall be sheltered from street view, if possible, given lot size and
configuration. Compost piles shall be located on the property so as not to be
visible from the street whenever possible.
   (E)   All residential solid waste and curbside recycling collections will be
made between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on the designated collection
day. Refuse containers and recycling containers shall be set out at the refuse
collection site or curbside, on the designated collection day before 5:00 a.m.
and no earlier than noon of the day preceding the regular collection day.
Refuse storage containers, bulky waste, and/or recyclables must not impede
pedestrian or vehicular traffic along sidewalks, streets and/or other public
rights-of-way. The refuse containers shall be removed from the refuse
collection site no later than noon on the day after the regular collection. The
owner, tenant, lessee, occupant, or agent of any property shall promptly clean
up and remove any scattered solid waste, rejected items, or recyclable material
from the property before noon on the day after the scheduled date of regular
collection. Missed collections that are a result of the contractors’ negligence
will be an exception to having residential solid waste removed from the refuse
collection site or curb side no later than noon the day after the regular
collection day.
(Ord. 02-002, passed 5-20-02)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.05 COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   The bi-weekly recycling collection date and recycling collection point
for residential units shall be the residential unit's normal refuse collection
date and collection point.
   (B)   Upon the placement of recyclable material at a designated curbside or
recyclable collection location for collection by the town’s authorized
recycling contractor, the recyclable waste material shall become the property
of the authorized recycling contractor.
   (C)   During the 24-hour period commencing at 6:00 p.m. on the day preceding
a day designated for collection of recyclable material, no person other than an
authorized recycling contractor shall remove recyclable material which has been
placed in a designated recycling container at a designated recycling collection
location. Any and each such removal in violation hereof from one or more
designated recycling collection containers placed at a designated recycling
collection location during said 24-hour period shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall limit the right of an individual person,
organization or other entity to donate, sell or otherwise dispose of recyclable
material.
(Ord. 02-002, passed 5-20-02)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.06 FREON.
   (A)   Proper disposal of Freon waste items shall be the responsibility of
the owner thereof.
   (B)   Collection and disposal of Freon waste items from residential sources
shall not be provided by the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain
outside of any dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied
or abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under his or her control,
any abandoned, unattended or discarded Freon waste item for a period of greater
than seven consecutive days.
(Ord. 02-002, passed 5-20-02)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.07 ENFORCING AUTHORITY.
   The authority for enforcing this chapter shall be with the Town Council, the
Clerk-Treasurer, the County Police Department, and the County Department of
Public Health.
(Ord. 02-002, passed 5-20-02)
§ 53.08 RESIDENTIAL YARD WASTE COLLECTION.
   The following yard waste regulations are hereby established:
   (A)   Yard waste accepted. Grass clippings, leaves, garden waste, bushes,
brush, tree limbs, clean dirt and sand.
   (B)   Prohibited yard waste. Plastic of any kind, landscaping fabric or
similar materials, tree stumps, landscaping stone, steel trim, bricks, timbers
of any kind and all types yard waste delivered by commercial landscaping
contractors.
   (C)   Separation requirement. All yard waste shall be separated by the
resident utilizing the yard waste collection site and placed into the
appropriately marked area.
   (D)   Hours of operation. Monday through Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
and the first Saturday of each month from 7:00 a.m. to noon. Site is available
to residents annually from April 1 until November 1.
   (E)   Enforcement. Offenses will be referred to the Allen County Sheriff's
Department for enforcement.
(Ord. 19-002, passed 5-6-19)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person violating any provision of §
53.04 shall be subject to a fine of $25 for the first violation and $50 for
each subsequent violation over the next 12 months. The fine herein imposed
shall be paid to the Town Sewer Use Fund.
   (B)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of §
53.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $50 and not more
than $1,000. The fine herein imposed shall be paid to the Town General Fund.
   (C)   Any person who fails to properly dispose of a Freon waste item within
a seven-day period in violation of §
53.06(C) shall constitute a nuisance under this section punishable by a fine of
$50 per violation. The fine shall be paid to the Town Sewer Use Fund.
   (D)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of §
53.08 shall be subject to the following. First offense is a verbal or written
warning. Second offense is a fine of $50 to $100. Third and future offense is a
fine of $101 to $250. Offenses will continue from year to year and not expire
with the calendar year.
(Ord. 02-002, passed 5-20-02; Am. Ord. 19-002, passed 5-6-19)
CHAPTER 54: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
   
54.01   Huntertown Utility Service Board
   
54.02   Payment of utility bills by credit card
   
54.03   Access to utilities
§ 54.01 HUNTERTOWN UTILITY SERVICE BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Huntertown Utility Service Board
(hereinafter the “Board”), with all the powers and duties conferred by IC 8-
1.5-3-4.
   (B)   The Board shall be composed of three members, whose initial terms
shall begin January 1, 2013, for terms of one, two, and three years. Any
members of the Board may be removed or impeached from office as provided by
Indiana law.
   (C)   At the first meeting each January, the Board members, after taking
their oath of office, shall select one of their members to serve as chairman of
the Board for the ensuing year.
   (D)   USB Board members shall each receive annual compensation for their
service in 2015, and thereafter, in the amount of $3,600 payable in 12 equal
monthly payments of $300 for each month in which they serve as a USB member.
      (1)   The USB Board member compensation shall be paid from the funds of
the Huntertown Utilities.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to pay the USB members monthly.
(Ord. 12-013, passed 12-20-12; Am. Ord. 14-013, passed 12-22-14)
§ 54.02 PAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS BY CREDIT CARD.
   Payment of utility bills through PayGov, LLC is the only authorized method
of payment by use of a credit card as this method will result in electronic
transfer of funds to the town utility bank account without a service fee to the
town.
(Res. 13-009, passed 10-21-13)
§ 54.03 ACCESS TO UTILITIES.
   (A)   Unless an exception is granted by the Town Council, it shall be the
policy of the town that all new connections to the town’s sewer utility shall
also be required to connect to the town’s water utility; and
   (B)   Unless an exception is granted by the Town Council, it shall be the
policy of the town that all new connections to the town’s water utility shall
be required to connect to the town’s sewer utility.
(Res. 17-013, passed 6-5-17)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
    Chapter
      
70.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Prohibited parking areas established
   
70.02   Parking of certain trucks on streets prohibited
   
70.03   Parking upon a sidewalk prohibited
   
70.04   Parking near Post Office on Trinity Street
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 PROHIBITED PARKING AREAS ESTABLISHED.
   It shall be a violation of this section to park any motor vehicle or trailer
within any designated no parking zones within the town, which zones shall now
and hereafter be designated by the erection of "No Parking" signs.
(Ord. 87-004, passed 6-2-87)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.02 PARKING OF CERTAIN TRUCKS ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section TRUCK shall mean any truck, tractor,
trailer or combination of tractor and trailer which is rated one ton or more.
   (B)   No truck shall be permitted to park on any street or roadway in the
town, except temporarily for the purpose of loading and unloading.
(Ord. 50, passed 9-2-75)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 PARKING UPON A SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on or across a sidewalk or otherwise
obstruct public passage between the curb lines or lateral lines of any roadway
or the adjacent property lines within the geographic limits of the town.
(Ord. 98-013, passed 12-7-98)
§ 70.04 PARKING NEAR POST OFFICE ON TRINITY STREET.
   (A)   Parking on both the north and south sides of Trinity Street in
Huntertown, traveling west from Lima Road for a distance of 110 feet shall be
limited exclusively for access to the United States Post Office.
   (B)   There will be four parking spaces on each side of the road within the
110 feet. The town will identify and maintain painted lines depicting the four
parking spaces on each side of the road, creating a total of eight parking
spaces.
   (C)   Said eight parking spaces will be restricted for parking between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except Sundays and holidays. Said parking
restriction allows motor vehicles to park for no longer than 30 minutes at any
time between the designated hours and on the designated days.
   (D)   One parking space on the north side of Trinity Street, directly east
of a platted alley and west of the four designated-spaces described above,
shall be designated as "Postal Employee Parking Only." This designated space
shall have the same time and day exceptions noted in division (C) above.
   (E)   The authority for enforcing this section shall be with the Town
Council, Town Manager, Clerk- Treasurer and/or Allen County Sheriff's
Department.
(Ord. 08-010, passed 11-17-08; Am, Ord. 18-005, passed 8-6-18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The fine for violation of §
70.01 shall be $10 for each violation thereof; which sums shall be deposited
into the General Fund of the town.
   (B)   Anyone violating §
70.02 shall be fined in an amount not less than $20 nor more than $50. Each day
of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   The fine for violation or failing to comply with §
70.03 shall be $25 for each violation thereof if paid within 30 days of the
notice affixed to such motor vehicle. If the violator fails to pay the fine
within 30 days, the penalty shall be $50. Each day of the violation shall
constitute a separate violation. The penalties herein imposed shall be payable
to the Clerk-Treasurer and the funds shall be deposited into the General Fund.
   (D)   The fine for violation of § 70.05 shall be $50 for each violation
thereof, which sum shall be deposited in the General Fund. Each offense shall
be deemed a separate violation.
   (E)   Each violator of the restrictions and provisions of
Ch. 73, Schedules I and
II shall pay a fine and penalty to the town in the amount of $10, if paid
within 72 hours of the date and time of issuance, and $20 thereafter for each
violation. If the fine has not been paid within two weeks of the date of
issuance, the violation may be prosecuted as a Class C infraction under I.C.
34-4-32-4(c), and the violator shall be obligated to pay any costs imposed by
reason of the docketing in the county court in addition to the fine prescribed
in this section.
(Ord. 50, passed 9-2-75; Am. Ord. 87-004, passed 6-2-87; Am. Ord. 98- 013,
passed 12-7-98; Am. Ord. 06-007, passed 3-25-06; Am. Ord. 08-010, passed 11-17-
08; Am. Ord. 18-005, passed 8-6-18)
Cross-reference:
   Collection of fine for violation of §
70.03, see §
31.41
Editor’s note:
   IC 34-4 was repealed by P.L. 1-1998, Sec. 221.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Obedience to all official traffic control devices
   
71.03   Manual and specification for traffic control devices
   
71.04   Authority to install
   
71.05   State law applicable
   
71.06   Golf carts
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of all terms contained herein shall be construed in
accordance with the definitions contained in I.C. 9-13-2 as it may be from time
to time amended.
(Ord. 05-014, passed 11-21-05)
§ 71.02 OBEDIENCE TO ALL OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic shall observe and obey all official traffic control devices
placed in accordance with this section which may be from time to time amended,
unless directed by a police officer or fireman.
(Ord. 05-014, passed 11-21-05)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATION FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the Indiana
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways prepared by
the State Highway Commission. All signs and signals required by this section
for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform to type and
location throughout the town. All traffic control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this article shall be official
traffic control devices.
(Ord. 05-014, passed 11-21-05)
§ 71.04 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   The Town Council shall have placed and maintained official traffic control
devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of the town to make
effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may place and maintain such
additional traffic control devices as the Town Council may deem necessary to
regulate, warn or guide traffic under the traffic ordinances of the town or
state vehicle code.
(Ord. 05-014, passed 11-21-05)
§ 71.05 STATE LAW APPLICABLE.
   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles (to wit, I.C. 9-21-
5-2) shall be applicable upon all streets or roads within the town, except as
the town, as authorized by state law, hereby declares and determines upon the
basis of engineering and traffic investigations that certain speed regulations
shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in which event
it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of
any speed so declared by the town when the proper signs are in place.
(Ord. 05-014, passed 11-21-05)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.06 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the regulation of use
and registration of golf carts within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. The meaning given in IC 9-25-4-1 et seq. as it
now reads, or is subsequently amended.
      FLASHING LAMPS. The meaning given in IC 9-21-9-4 as it now reads, or is
subsequently amended.
      GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically
intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of
playing golf.
      PUBLIC STREET. All property dedicated or intended for public highway,
freeway, or roadway purposes or subject to public easements therefor.
      REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. The certificate issued by the Clerk-Treasurer
signifying all initial requirements of golf cart registration have been
satisfied.
      SLOW MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM. The meaning given in Indiana Administrative
Code 205 IAC 1-1 et seq. as it now reads, or is subsequently amended.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart on any public street
or sidewalk within the corporate limits of the town except as specifically
authorized by this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (C)(1) above, a golf cart may cross a
sidewalk at right angles to access adjoining property or a public street.
   (D)   Any golf cart operated on a public street within the corporate limits
of the town shall be registered with the town, shall pay a registration fee as
provided herein, and shall comply with all the requirements of this section.
Registration forms shall be available at Town Hall and the registration fee
shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Registration fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Permanent registration, which shall be valid from the date of
issuance of the registration certificate, for a fee of $40.
      (2)   Temporary registration, which may be purchased for a period of time
not to exceed five consecutive days, for a fee of $10.
   (F)   The then current registration certificate shall be maintained and
displayed on or about the golf cart at all times that the golf cart is in
operation on any public street within the town.
   (G)   At the time of registration, the registrant owner or operator of the
golf cart shall provide the Vehicle Identification Number, the applicable
registration fee, and proof of financial responsibility as defined herein.
   (H)   No person may operate a golf cart on a public street within the town
without coverage of financial responsibility as defined herein.
   (I)   Prior to issuance of a registration certificate, the golf cart shall
be inspected by a Huntertown Resource Police Officer to ensure that the golf
cart complies with all of the requirements of this section.
   (J)   All golf carts operating on public streets within the corporate limits
of town shall be operated pursuant to the terms of this section, shall obey all
rules of the road and traffic regulations of the State of Indiana and Town of
Huntertown and shall display the following:
      (1)   The registration certificate issued by the town as required herein;
      (2)   A slow moving vehicle emblem as defined herein;
      (3)   Flashing lamps as defined herein;
      (4)   If the golf cart is operated after sunset and before sunrise, it
must display headlamps, which shall be mounted in the front of the golf cart
and which shall be visible from a distance of 500 feet.
   (K)   The operator of a golf cart on a public street within the corporate
limits of the town must have a valid driver's license issued by the State of
Indiana, or any of the state of the United States of America.
   (L)   Golf carts shall be equipped with a rear view mirror.
   (M)    The number of occupants of a golf cart in operation on a public
street within the corporate limits of the town shall be limited to the number
of persons for whom factory seating is installed on the golf cart. The operator
and occupants shall be properly seated at all times and no part of the body of
the operator or occupants shall extend outside of the perimeter of the golf
cart while the golf cart is in operation, except that the operator shall use
proper traffic hand signals when required.
   (N)   All persons of the age ten years or less shall ride in the front seat
of the golf cart.
(Ord. 09-009, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 18-006, passed 9-4-18; Am. Ord. 2020-012,
passed 9-8-20) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
    (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $100.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of the provisions of §
71.06 shall be considered a Class C Infraction and shall result in fines and
penalties as follows:
         (a)   First offense: $50;
         (b)   Second offense: $75;
         (c)   Each additional offense: $100.
         (d)   Additionally, if three or more violations of §
71.06 occur within one calendar year, the registration of the golf cart,
whether annually or daily, shall be suspended and the owner or operator of the
golf cart shall not be eligible for another registration for one calendar year
from the date of suspension.
      (2)   Any fees or fines collected under §
71.06 shall be deposited in the General Fund.
(Ord. 05-014, passed 11-21-05; Am. Ord. 09-009, passed 2-1-10)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Through streets
      
II.   One-way streets
      
III.   Stop intersections
      
IV.   Four-way stop
      
V.   Yield intersections
      
VI.   Establishment of speed limit on certain streets
      
VII.   Designated no passing zones
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH STREETS.
   The following streets and parts of streets are hereby declared to be through
streets, and traffic on through streets shall have the right-of-way over all
other streets except intersecting through streets, in which case the state law
governing right-of-way shall govern unless the right-of-way at the intersection
is governed by an official traffic control device.
Through Street Traffic Control Device
Through Street     Traffic Control Device
Bethel Road        posted stop on Boulder Pass
                   posted stop on Crooked Cove
                   posted stop on Preserve Boulevard
Carroll Road       posted stop on Carroll Creek Run
                   posted stop on Bethel Road
                   posted stop on Mossy Oak Run
                   posted stop on Stoner’s Mill Drive
                   posted stop on Pebble Brook Boulevard
Cedar Canyons Road posted stop on Silver Shadow Lane
                   posted stop on Boulder Ridge
                   posted stop on Cedar Canyons Road at State Road 3
                   posted stop on Willow Ridge
                   posted stop on Hunter’s Ridge Lane
Gump Road          posted stop on Hedge Brook Drive
                   posted stop on Hidden Oaks Run
Through Street Traffic Control Device
Through Street Traffic Control Device
Hathaway Road  posted stop on Hathaway Road at State Road 3
               posted stop on Lima Plank Parkway
               posted stop on Woods Road
               posted stop on Meyers Drive
               posted stop on Main Street
               posted stop on Hieber Avenue
               posted stop on Hunter Street
Lima Road      posted stop on Edgerton Street
               posted stop on Trinity Street
               posted stop on Cedar Canyons Road
               posted stop on Canaveral Court
               posted stop on Apollo Drive
               posted stop on Gump Road
               posted stop on Almon Street
 
(Ord. 05-014, passed 11-21-05; Am. Ord. 19-005, passed 7-1-19)  Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following are designated one-way only streets for traffic within the
town as posted.
 
Street         Direction To             Ord. No. Date Passed
Trinity Street Westbound Webster Street 05-014   11-21-05
 
Penalty, see § 71.99
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections within the town shall be designated stop
intersections as posted.
Street Stops At Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                             Stops At               Ord. No. Date Passed
Astoria Way                        Carroll Creek Run      05-014   11-21-05
Bear Claw Lane                     Mossy Oak Run          05-014   11-21-05
Bearberry Court                    Lanai Drive            05-014   11-21-05
Boulder Pass                       Carroll Creek Run      05-014   11-21-05
Breezy Knoll Court                 Troutwood Drive        05-014   11-21-05
Britany Cove                       Mossy Oak Run          05-014   11-21-05
Bullrush Court                     Preserve Boulevard     05-014   11-21-05
Butter Brook Lane                  Rivulet Run            05-014   11-21-05
Candleset Cove                     Rivulet Run            05-014   11-21-05
Carroll Ridge Drive                Hammock Drive          05-014   11-21-05
Clematis Drive                     Bear’s Breech Court  12-004   3-19-12
Clematis Drive                     Stonecrop Road         12-004   3-19-12
Claystone Court                    Pebble Brook Boulevard 05-014   11-21-05
Cross Winds Way                    Long Meadow Parkway    05-014   11-21-05
Dark Hollow Court                  Wandering Way          05-014   11-21-05
Delphinium Place                   Stonecrop Road         12-004   3-19-12
Duesenberg Drive                   Thunderbird Road       05-014   11-21-05
Elderwood Court (northwest corner) Cranwood Court         19-001   2-25-19
Emerald Mist Way                   Lanai Drive            05-014   11-21-05
Fairweather Drive                  Preserve Boulevard     05-014   11-21-05
Fleetwood Court                    Duesenberg Drive       05-014   11-21-05
Flint Pass                         Rock Hollow Run        05-014   11-21-05
Galena Court                       Marble Ridge           05-014   11-21-05
Garnet                             Shale Run              05-014   11-21-05
Gordon Cord Lane                   Thunderbird Road       05-014   11-21-05
Great Hollow Court                 Preserve Boulevard     05-014   11-21-05
Hammock Drive                      Carroll Creek Run      05-014   11-21-05
Hedge Brook Drive                  Ashville Drive         05-014   11-21-05
Hedge Brook Drive                  Gump Road              05-014   11-21-05
Hidden Oaks Run                    Gump Road              05-014   11-21-05
Street Stops At Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                             Stops At               Ord. No. Date Passed
Hidden Oaks Run                    Water Oak Place        05-014   11-21-05
Hunters Ridge Lane                 Gump Road              05-014   11-21-05
Hunters Ridge Lane                 Pheasant Run           05-014   11-21-05
Long Meadow Parkway                Preserve Boulevard     05-014   11-21-05
Marble Ridge                       Amethyst Parkway       16-007   8-1-16
Marble Ridge                       Boulder Ridge          05-014   11-21-05
Marble Ridge                       Obsidian Lane          12-001   1-16-12
Niblick Landing                    Flowing Brook          05-014   11-21-05
Obsidian Lane                      Marble Ridge           05-014   11-21-05
Old Timber Pass (northeast corner) Alderberry Court       19-001   2-25-19
Old Timber Pass (northeast corner) Elderwood Court        19-001   2-25-19
Old Timber Pass (southwest corner) Elderwood Court        19-001   2-25-19
Old Timber Pass (southwest corner) Tumbling Stone Court   19-001   2-25-19
Pebble Brook Boulevard             Obsidian Lane          05-014   11-21-05
Preserve Boulevard                 Hammock Drive          05-014   11-21-05
Quail Trail                        Tally Ho Drive         12-004   3-19-12
Quiet Eddy Court                   Wandering Way          05-014   11-21-05
Rabbit Run                         Hedge Brook Drive      05-014   11-21-05
Rabbit Run                         Hunter’s Lane        05-014   11-21-05
Rambling Road                      Classic Lake Drive     12-004   3-19-12
Rivulet Court                      Wandering Way          05-014   11-21-05
Rivulet Run                        Lanai Drive            05-014   11-21-05
Rivulet Run                        Wandering Way          05-014   11-21-05
Rock Hollow Run                    Boulder Ridge          05-014   11-21-05
Rock Hollow Run                    Shale Run              05-014   11-21-05
Saddleview Court                   Hammock Drive          05-014   11-21-05
Sapphire                           Lanai Drive            05-014   11-21-05
Serene Shores                      Rivulet Run            05-014   11-21-05
Shadow Creek Drive                 Carroll Creek Run      05-014   11-21-05
Shale Run                          Amethyst Parkway       16-007   8-1-16
Silica Court                       Pebble Brook Boulevard 05-014   11-21-05
Stonecrop Road                     Towne Park Run         12-004   3-19-12
Strada Way                         Boulder Pass           05-014   11-21-05
Strada Way                         Charger Court          05-014   11-21-05
Switchback Cove                    Kimball Run            05-014   11-21-05
Tapered Bank Run                   Tumblebrook Lane       05-014   11-21-05
Thunderbird Road                   Silver Shadow Lane     05-014   11-21-05
Towne Park Run                     Woods Road             12-004   3-19-12
Troutwood Drive                    Tapered Bank Run       05-014   11-21-05
Tumblebrook Lane                   Rivulet Run            05-014   11-21-05
 
Street              Stops At          Ord. No. Date Passed
Turtle Creek Court  Troutwood Drive   05-014   11-21-05
Wandering Way       Crooked Cove      05-014   11-21-05
Webster Street      Hunter Street     05-014   11-21-05
Winding River Court Carroll Creek Run 05-014   11-21-05
Windward Court      Ashville Drive    05-014   11-21-05
 
Penalty, see § 71.99
SCHEDULE IV. FOUR-WAY STOP.
   The following intersections within the town are designated four-way stop
intersections as posted.
 
Intersection                      Ord. No. Date Passed
Carroll Road at Hand Road         19-005   7-1-19
Edgerton Street at Webster Street 05-014   11-21-05
Greentree Court at Willow Ridge   05-014   11-21-05
Shoaff Road at Old Lima Road      2024-006 5-6-24
Trinity Street at Walnut Street   05-014   11-21-05
Walnut Street at Hieber Street    05-014   11-21-05
 
Penalty, see § 71.99
SCHEDULE V. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections within the town shall be designated yield
intersections as posted.
Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Intersection                        Ord. No. Date Passed
Fairway Court Trail at Willow Ridge 05-014   11-21-05
Gemini Drive at Apollo Drive        05-014   11-21-05
Hulda Street at Hunter Street       05-014   11-21-05
Hulda Street at Main Street         05-014   11-21-05
Maple Street at Hieber Avenue       05-014   11-21-05
Walnut Street at Hunter Street      05-014   11-21-05
Washington Street at Hunter Street  05-014   11-21-05
Washington Street at Main Street    05-014   11-21-05
 
Penalty, see § 71.99
SCHEDULE VI. ESTABLISHMENT OF SPEED LIMIT ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, maximum
speed limits are hereby determined and declared reasonable and safe on the
streets or roads or parts thereof as hereinafter provided, and as from time to
time amended by duly adopted resolution of the Town Council, when signs are
erected giving notice thereof.
 
Roadway            Limits                      Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Bethel Road        Between Hathaway Road and   45 mph      05-014   11-21-05
                   Carroll Road
Cedar Canyons Road Between S.R. 3 and Old Lima 35 mph      05-014   11-21-05
                   Road
                   From its intersection from
Cedar Canyons Road Coldwater Road to its       35 mph      2024-008 6-17-24
                   intersection with Old Lima
                   Road
Hathaway Road      Between S.R. 3 and Hand     45 mph      05-014   11-21-05
                   Road
 
   (B)   On the following roadways when children are present.
 
Roadway  Limits                                                                   Speed Ord. Date
                                                                                  Limit No.  Passed
Bethel   From the intersection of Hathaway Road south ½ mile                     25    05-  11-21-
Road                                                                              mph   014  05
Hathaway From the intersection of Bethel Road, a distance of 415 feet east and ½ 25    05-  11-21-
Road     mile west                                                                mph   014  05
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE VII. DESIGNATED NO PASSING ZONES.
   The following roads within the town are designated as no passing zones as
posted and marked accordingly.
 
Road                                         Ord. No. Date Passed
Hathaway Road between S.R. 3 and Bethel Road 14-009   10-20-14
 
(Ord. 14-009, passed 10-20-14)
 
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
      
II.   Parking by permit only
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   The following streets within the town are designated "No Parking" as posted:
 
Street                                                  Side   Ord. No. Date
Bear Claw Lane (between the intersections of Mossy Oak  north  24-010   9-5-24
Run and Shearwater Run)
Lima Crossing Drive (from its intersection with Mossy
Oak Run to its intersection with Lima Crossing Access   west   2022-002 3-21-22
#3)
Old Lima Road                                           either 06-007   3-25-06
Park Street (from its intersection with Maple Street to north  17-002   6-19-17
its intersection with Oak Street)
Serene Shore (beyond 347 feet north of the centerline   either 12-009   8-6-12
of Rivulet Run)
 
(Ord. 06-007, passed 3-25-06) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING BY PERMIT ONLY.
   The following streets within the town are designated "Parking by Permit
Only" as posted:
 
Street        Side  Distance                       Ord. No. Date
Hunter Street North 150 feet west of Old Lima Road 06-007   3-25-06
 
(Ord. 06-007, passed 3-25-06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES; WEEDS
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   NOISE WITHIN THE TOWN LIMITS
      
94.   BURNING REGULATIONS; OPEN BURNING
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Harboring small farm animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 HARBORING SMALL FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and
phrases are defined as follows:
      CAGE or COOP. A structure, not necessarily attached to the ground,
designed to provide shelter and protection for small animals or birds.
      ENCLOSURE. A set of walls or fences designed to confine small animals or
birds to roam relatively freely in an open yard area.
      HARBORING SMALL FARM ANIMALS. Breeding, raising or maintaining small farm
animals in a cage or coop, or other enclosure for keeping such animals.
      SMALL FARM ANIMALS. Any and all chickens, roosters, ducks, rabbits and
similar farm animals.
   (B)   With the exception of uses permitted by the town Zoning Ordinance, and
a special use permitted by the Board of Zoning Appeals, notwithstanding any
other ordinance to the contrary, it shall be unlawful to harbor small farm
animals within the town, and a violation of this chapter is hereby declared to
be a common nuisance.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 8-21-17)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The fine for violation of this chapter shall not exceed $50 for each
violation thereof, and each day that the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. A violation of this chapter may be prosecuted in the Allen
Circuit or Superior Court. A person found to be in violation of this chapter
shall also be responsible to pay all court costs, reasonable attorney fees, and
any other costs or expenses incurred in the prosecution of an enforcement
action. If injunctive relief is ordered, a person found to have violated this
chapter shall also be responsible for any cost incurred in securing an
abatement of the nuisance.
   (B)   Fines for violations of this chapter shall be deposited in the General
Fund of the town.
   (C)   This chapter may be enforced by the Town Council, the Clerk-Treasurer,
or the Allen County Police Department.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 8-21-17)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES; WEEDS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Junk cars
   
91.02   Rubbish, garbage, waste materials
Weeds and Grass
   
91.20   Weeds and grass
   
91.21   Certain weeds and grass prohibited
   
91.22   Removal of weeds and grass by owner
   
91.23   Definitions
   
91.24   Failure to comply
   
91.25   Appeal
   
91.26   Cost of removal of weeds or grass by town
   
91.27   Court order
   
91.28   Court costs and attorney fees
Accumulation of Junk
   
91.30   Definition
   
91.31   Prohibited acts
   
91.32   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 JUNK CARS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
   JUNK CAR.   Any motor vehicle which does not bear a currently valid license
plate and is not in a garage or other building.
   (B)   Because of the danger to health from vermin and insects and to
children attracted by junk cars, such cars are declared to be nuisances, except
in lawfully operated junk yards or yards lawfully operated for vehicles
awaiting permission for junking from the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (C)   The Town Marshal may order any junk car removed within ten days.
   (D)   Notice of the order to remove shall be placed upon such junk car.
Copies of such notice shall be served upon any adult occupying the real estate
on which the junk car is located and upon the owner of the junk car, if known.
If no occupant of the real estate or owner of the junk car can be found after
reasonable search, a notice affixed to any building on the real estate shall
constitute notice to the owner and occupant of the real estate and to the owner
of the junk car. If there is no building on the real estate, such notice may be
affixed elsewhere on the real estate.
   (E)   If such junk car is not removed within the time so fixed, the Town
Marshal may cause such motor vehicle to be removed at the expense of the owner
of the real estate, which expense shall constitute a lien on the real estate.
(Ord. 35, passed 5-21-70)
Penalty, see § 91.99
Cross-reference:
   Accumulation of other junk, see §
91.30 through
91.32
§ 91.02 RUBBISH, GARBAGE, WASTE MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any
person to throw or deposit, allow to accumulate, or suffer or permit any child,
servant or employee, or any member of the household of which he or she is the
head, to throw or deposit rubbish, trash, waste paper, garbage, waste material,
putrid or unsound animal or vegetable matter, on any premises in the town,
unless the same be stored in a trash barrel or rubbish bin, or in the case of
garbage or putrid or unsound animal or vegetable matter, in a sound garbage can
with properly fitting lid.
(Ord. 40, passed 10-5-71)
Penalty, see § 91.99
WEEDS AND GRASS
§ 91.20 WEEDS AND GRASS.
   Grass, weeds, noxious plants and other rank vegetation allowed to grow at a
height in excess of nine inches and all weeds, noxious plants and other rank
vegetation which do not exceed in height nine inches after the same have
reached the flowering stage within the geographic limits of the town are hereby
declared a nuisance.
(Ord. 19, passed 6-3-68; Am. Ord. 09-005, passed 8-3-09; Am. Ord. 16-012,
passed 10-3-16)
§ 91.21 CERTAIN WEEDS AND GRASS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit grass, weeds, noxious
plants or other rank vegetation after the same have reached nine inches in
height or weeds, noxious plants and other rank vegetation, which do not exceed
in height nine inches, after the same have reached the flowering stage, to
remain upon any land owned, leased, or occupied by such person within the
geographic limits of the town.
(Ord. 19, passed 6-3-68; Am. Ord. 09-005, passed 8-3-09; Am. Ord. 16-012,
passed 10-3-16)
§ 91.22 REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND GRASS BY OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of all persons to cut and remove from any property
owned, leased, or occupied by such person all grass or weeds over nine inches
in height and to cut and remove from any land owned, leased, or occupied by
such person all weeds which do not grow to a height of nine inches when the
same have reached the flowering stage.
(Ord. 19, passed 6-3-68; Am. Ord. 09-005, passed 8-3-09; Am. Ord. 16-012,
passed 10-3-16)
§ 91.23 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS.  Any weed over nine inches in height defined by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture from the federal noxious weed list, as from time to
time amended, and shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense);
      (2)   Johnson grass and Sorghum album (Sorghum halepense);
      (3)   Bur cucumber (Sicyos angulatus);
      (4)   Shattercane (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench spp. drummondii (Steud.)
deWet);
      (5)   Poison ivy;
      (6)   Poison sumac;
      (7)   Poison oak;
      (8)   Quackgrass (Elytrigia repens);
      (9)   Carolina horsenettle (Solanum carolinense);
      (10)   Cocklebur (Xanthium strumarium); and
      (11)   Wild mustard (Brassica kaber var. pinnatifida)
   RANK VEGETATION. Grass or any plant exceeding nine inches in height,
excluding therefrom trees, shrubberies, flowers, ornamental grasses, and
agricultural crops such as hay and pasture.
(Ord. 09-005, passed 8-3-09; Am. Ord. 16-012, passed 10-3-16)
§ 91.24 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   On default of any owner, lessee, or occupant of land to cut and remove such
weeds or to cause the same to be cut down, as provided in §
91.22, a five-day written notice to remove such grass, weeds or other rank
vegetation shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, and the same
shall be served either by personal service or by written notice sent by first
class mail (which shall be deemed to be served three days after mailing) to the
owner at the address reflected in the records of the Auditor of Allen County,
Indiana, and by posting the notice upon the property. If the landowner shall
fail to remove such grass, weeds or rank vegetation within the time prescribed
in the notice or any extension of that time granted to the landowner by the
Town Council, the town may remove or cause to be removed such vegetation and
the Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified statement of the actual costs
incurred by the town in such removal, together with a $50 administrative fee,
which statement shall be delivered to the owner of such land in person or by
first class mail as above provided. The owner shall have ten days from the
service of such statement to pay the same to the Clerk-Treasurer. If the
landowner fails to pay the statement within ten days of service, the costs
shall become a lien upon the subject real estate and the Clerk-Treasurer shall
file a certified statement of the costs incurred for the removal with the
Auditor of Allen County, Indiana, for inclusion on the tax duplicate against
the property upon which the work was performed, the same shall be collected as
taxes are collected, and when collected, shall be deposited in the town General
Fund.
(Ord. 19, passed 6-3-68; Am. Ord. 09-005, passed 8-3-09; Am. Ord. 16-012,
passed 10-3-16)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions regarding removal of weeds and rank vegetation, see IC 36-7-
10.1-1 - 36-7-10.1-4.
§ 91.25 APPEAL.
   Any appeal of the removal notice or statement for costs must be made within
ten calendar days of the date of the removal notice or statement of costs,
whichever is applicable. Any appeal must be in writing and shall be made to the
Town Council, which shall set the matter for hearing. The hearing may be at a
special or regular meeting of the Town Council. After the hearing, the Town
Council shall issue its written findings. Any appeal from written findings of
the Town Council must be made to a court of general jurisdiction in Allen
County within ten calendar days of the issuance of the Town Council’s written
findings, or the decision of the Town Council shall be final.
(Ord. 09-005, passed 8-3-09; Am. Ord. 16-012, passed 10-3-16)
§ 91.26 COST OF REMOVAL OF WEEDS OR GRASS BY TOWN.
   Whenever town employees or town equipment is utilized to remove such grass,
weeds, noxious plants or other rank vegetation, the Clerk-Treasurer shall make
a certified statement of the actual costs incurred by the town in such removal,
at a rate of $75 per hour with a minimum one hour charge, together with a $50
administrative fee.
(Res. 84-004, passed 9-4-84; Am. Res. 85-004, passed 2-4-85; Am. Res. 05-010,
passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 09-005, passed 8-3-09; Am. Ord. 16-012, passed 10-3-16)
§ 91.27 COURT ORDER.
   If the owner denies the town permission to be on his or her property to
remove the grass, weeds, noxious plants or other rank vegetation to abate the
nuisance, then the town may file a complaint against the owner in a court of
general jurisdiction in Allen County seeking an order from the court finding a
violation of this subchapter and authorizing the town to go onto the property
for the purpose of cutting, mowing and removing vegetation that constitutes a
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 09-005, passed 8-3-09; Am. Ord. 16-012, passed 10-3-16)
§ 91.28 COURT COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES.
   In the event that it is necessary to file a complaint against any owner that
is guilty of violating any provision of this subchapter, the owner shall also
be adjudged to pay the costs of the prosecution, including reasonable attorney
fees, which shall be assessed to the owner as additional costs incurred by the
town and imposed upon the owner for violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 09-005, passed 8-3-09; Am. Ord. 16-012, passed 10-3-16)
ACCUMULATION OF JUNK
§ 91.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Any machinery, appliance, scrap materials, building materials, product
or merchandise, scrap metal, or other materials, which are old, rusty, wrecked,
damaged, deteriorated or discarded machinery, appliances, scrap metals, or
which are not suited for use upon the premises, or the condition of which
prevents its use for the purpose for which it was intended.
(Ord. 08-009, passed 11-17-08)
§ 91.31 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall place, discard, or abandon junk in a place where it is
visible from a highway, street, or other public way, or where it is visible to
an abutting landowner from that portion of the land used on a regular basis or
visible from a highway, street or other public way. No person shall place,
discard, or abandon junk on public property or the private property of another,
whether or not visible from a highway, street, or other public way, or from
adjoining land.
(Ord. 08-009, passed 11-17-08)
Cross-reference:
   Junk cars, see §
91.01
§ 91.32 ENFORCEMENT.
   The authority for enforcing this subchapter shall be with the Town Council,
the Clerk- Treasurer, the Allen County Police Department, the Allen County
Department of Planning Services, and the Allen County Department of Public
Health, and may be enforced in the manner provided by IC 36-1-6-2.
(Ord. 08-009, passed 11-17-08)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any such order described in §
91.01 is not obeyed within the time fixed, the owner of the junk car and the
occupant and owner of the real estate upon which it is located shall each, upon
conviction, be subject to a penalty not exceeding $50. Each day on which the
junk car is permitted to remain on the real estate after the time fixed in such
order shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 35, passed 5-21-70)
   (B)   Any person violating or failing to comply with §
91.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined for each offense not less than $5 nor
more than $100. Each day's violation of this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (C)   A person violating the provisions of § 91.31 shall be subject to a
civil penalty not to exceed $2,500, plus costs. Each day a violation continues
constitutes a separate offense. The fine herein imposed shall be paid to the
town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 40, passed 10-5-71; Am. Ord. 08-009, passed 11-17-08)
Cross-reference:
   Collection of fine for violation of §
91.31, see §
31.41
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
92.01   Street and sidewalk construction specifications adopted by reference
   
92.02   Construction plans to be submitted to Town Council for approval;
inspections
   
92.03   Permit fees
   
92.04   Planting and maintenance of trees along town streets
   
92.05   Underground or buried utilities
§ 92.01 STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the general and detailed specifications for
roads, streets, sidewalks, curbs, drainage structures and other miscellaneous
items as adopted by the County Board of Commissioners on May 21, 1979, as
Ordinance 79-3-1, and as hereafter amended, modified, revised and replaced.
   (B)   All references in Ordinance 79-3-1, and all amendments, revisions and
modifications thereto, to the County Commissioners, shall hereby be modified to
be the Trustees of the town. All references to the County Street and Highway
Department shall hereby be modified to the Trustees of the town or their duly
appointed representative.
   (C)   All construction of roads, streets, sidewalks, curbs, drainage
structures and other items contained in Ordinance 79-3-1, and as changed from
time to time, shall be constructed according to the terms and specifications as
contained in said ordinance.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-11-83)
§ 92.02 CONSTRUCTION PLANS TO BE SUBMITTED TO TOWN COUNCIL FOR APPROVAL;
INSPECTIONS .
   All plans and specifications for the construction of roads, streets,
sidewalks, curbs, drainage structures and other miscellaneous items as governed
by Ordinance 79-3-1, shall be submitted to the Town Hall to the attention of
the Town Council, prior to commencing construction on said matters. The Town
Council shall then cause said specifications to be reviewed and approved prior
to commencing construction. The Town Council shall also cause inspections to be
made upon said project as it deems appropriate to insure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-11-83)
§ 92.03 PERMIT FEES.
   The Town Council shall charge a permit fee for the issuance of the permit
and inspections and testings as required by this chapter. Said charges shall be
those as stated in the Ordinance 79-3-1 adopted by the County Board of
Commissioners as referenced in §
92.01, or as modified from time to time in said ordinance, or as declared and
posted by the Town Council of the town.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-11-83)
§ 92.04 PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE OF TREES ALONG STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to plant trees and shrubs within the right-of-way
of any street within the town, including the area between any sidewalk and
street, which is also part of the street right-of-way.
   (B)   Any owner of real estate planting any trees along any street in
violation of division (A) above shall remove or cause to be removed the same
within ten days after receiving a notice from the Town Council. Nothing in this
division (B) shall authorize the Town Council to order the removal of any tree
in good condition which has been planted prior to the enactment of this
section.
   (C)   The owner or occupant of any property abutting any street upon which a
tree or shrub is located within a right-of-way shall remove or trim any such
tree or shrub or part thereof which may be in a dangerous condition, including
those which are dead or dying, or which may project over the street or sidewalk
in such a manner that the limbs or branches thereof will not permit free and
unobstructed passage of pedestrians and vehicles and an unobstructed view of
traffic signs.
   (D)   Upon failure of any owner of real estate to comply with division (A),
(B) or (C) above, after being served with notice by the Town Council, the town
shall cause the work so ordered to be done at any time after the expiration of
15 days after the date of mailing. It shall be presumed that the notice
specified was received by the owner or occupant of the real estate if mailed by
U.S. mail with postage affixed thereon.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 8-1-11; Am. Ord. 11-10, passed 11-21-11)
§ 92.05 UNDERGROUND OR BURIED UTILITIES.
   (A)   Designated underground utility area. The town hereby designates town
right-of-way located on all local roads, arterial-primary roads, arterial-
secondary roads, and collector roads within the town as designated strictly for
underground or buried utilities (individually or collectively, “Underground
Utility Area”) and prohibits the placement of a new utility pole or new
wireless support structure within the underground utility area. To the extent
new wireless support structures are not required, this prohibition does not
restrict the collocation of small cell facilities on existing utility poles and
wireless support structures within the underground utility area or the
replacement of existing utility poles and wireless support structures within
the underground utility area.
   (B)   Waiver procedure. Any request to install new utility poles or new
wireless support structures within the underground utility area shall adhere to
the town’s waiver procedure, attached to Res. 17-011 and incorporated herein as
Exhibit A.
   (C)   Historic preservation areas. Applicants who wish to place structures
within any current or future historic preservation areas must obtain a
certificate of appropriateness by the area’s preservation district board prior
to placement of said structure as part of the application.
   (D)   Permit authority. The town hereby (a) designates the Town Council as
the permit authority; and (b) requests that the Town Utility Superintendent
implement and facilitate the waiver procedure.
(Res. 17-011, passed 5-1-17)
CHAPTER 93: NOISE WITHIN THE TOWN LIMITS
Section
   
93.01   Public policy
   
93.02   Unlawful noises
   
93.03   Exemptions
   
93.04   Use of consumer fireworks permitted only during certain times
 
   
93.98   Enforcement
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Collection of fine for violation of this chapter, see §
31.41
§ 93.01 PUBLIC POLICY.
   It is hereby declared, as a matter of public policy of this town:
   (A)   That the making of sound of a volume, frequency, pattern, or duration
that prohibits, disrupts, injures, or endangers the health, safety, welfare,
prosperity, comfort, or repose of persons of ordinary sensitivities within the
town has so increased as to constitute a public nuisance; and
   (B)   That the sole intent of the provisions of this chapter is declared to
be, as a matter of legislative determination for this declaration of public
policy, to secure and promote the health, safety, welfare, prosperity, comfort,
and repose of persons in this town by reducing unreasonable noise, and a
determination of violation of this chapter may not be based on the content of
any message conveyed during the creation of any noise or the identity of any
person responsible for or associated with the creation of any noise.
(Ord. 20-011, passed 7-6-20)
§ 93.02 UNLAWFUL NOISES.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, UNREASONABLE NOISE shall mean sound that
is of a volume, frequency, or pattern that prohibits, disrupts, injures, or
endangers the health, safety, welfare, prosperity, comfort, or repose of
reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivities within the town, given the time of
day and environment in which the sound is made.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any unreasonable
noise.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing, any person who performs any of the acts
enumerated in this division, or who causes or allows the performance of any of
such acts in or upon any property owned, occupied, or controlled by him or her,
shall be in violation of this section.
      (1)   Horns and signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle in any public street or
public place of the city, in a manner that makes unreasonable noise and
continuing to do so after being asked to stop; or
      (2)   Machines and devices for producing sound. Playing, using, or
operating, or permitting to be played, used, or operated, any radio,
television, digital media player, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, musical
instrument, or any machine or device for producing or reproducing sound in a
manner that makes unreasonable noise and continuing to do so after being asked
to stop, except when a permit granted therefor for some special occasion is in
effect. The operation of any such machine or device in a manner that produces
sound plainly audible to a person with normal hearing:
         (a)   From any place other than the property on which the sound source
is located when the machine or device is being operated between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; or
         (b)   From a distance greater than 75 feet from the sound source of
the machine or device when it is located in any public street or public place
of the town; shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section,
except when a permit granted therefor for some special occasion is in effect.
      (3)   Yelling or shouting. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or
singing in any public street or public place of the city in a manner that makes
unreasonable noise and continuing to do so after being asked to stop, except
when a permit granted therefor for some special occasion is in effect.
      (4)   Animals or birds. The keeping of any animal or bird that makes
unreasonable noise and the failure to prevent the continuation of the
unreasonable noise after being asked to do so.
      (5)   Engines and motors. The operation or use of any engine or motor on
a motor vehicle, motorcycle, or other vehicle that makes unreasonable noise and
continuing to do so after being asked to stop, or operation or possession in
any public street or public place of the town of any motor vehicle, motorcycle,
or other machine powered by an engine or motor equipped with straight pipes,
baffles, muffler cutouts, bypasses, an expansion chamber, or any exhaust system
constructed or capable of being operated so that the exhaust bypasses the
muffler or noise-reducing device, or the operation or possession of any engine
or motor not equipped with a muffler or other noise-reducing device in a manner
that makes sound plainly audible to a person with normal hearing from any place
other than the street or property on which the sound source is located, is
declared to be a nuisance, and shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section.
(Ord. 20-011, passed 7-6-20)
§ 93.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
   (B)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors, and similar home power tools when
properly muffled, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.;
   (C)   Burglar alarms or other warning devices when properly installed on
public or privately owned property, providing the cause of such alarm or
warning device sound is investigated and turned off within a reasonable period
of time;
   (D)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic or
sporting events and practices related to them;
   (E)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of emergency or for the performance of emergency work;
   (F)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of a legally established
non-transient business when such sounds are customary, incidental and within
the normal range appropriate for such use;
   (G)   Celebrations on legal holidays and as permitted by IC § 22-11-14-10.5;
and
   (H)   Permitted parades or festivals, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:
00 midnight Sunday through Thursday, and between 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. Friday
and Saturday.
(Ord. 20-011, passed 7-6-20)
§ 93.04 USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS PERMITTED ONLY DURING CERTAIN TIMES.
   (A)   No person within the corporate boundaries of the town shall use,
ignite or discharge or permit to be used, ignited or discharged any type of
consumer fireworks on any day or time other than the following:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July
9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4;
      (3)   The day before Memorial Day, Memorial Day, day before Labor Day and
Labor Day between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight; and,
      (4)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (B)   No other date or time is permitted for use of consumer fireworks,
unless expressly permitted by the Town Council.
   (C)   The Huntertown Town Council, the Clerk-Treasurer and/or officers of
the Allen County Sheriffs Department shall be charged with the duty to enforce
the terms of this section.
(Ord. 24-009, passed 7-1-24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Huntertown Town Council, the Clerk-Treasurer and/or the Allen County
Sheriff's Department shall be charged with the duty to enforce the terms of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-008, passed 4-6-20)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter, upon an admission or
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $50 for first offense. Any
second violation is subject to a fine of not less than $100 and any subsequent
violation thereafter within a 12 month period shall be subject to a $150 fine
for each offense. Each day any violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 4-19-04; Am. Ord. 20-011, passed 7-6-20; Am. Ord. 24-009,
passed 7-1-24)
CHAPTER 94: BURNING REGULATIONS; OPEN BURNING
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Burning prohibited
   
94.03   Enforcement of provisions
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires another meaning.
   BARBECUE PIT OR GRILL. A stationary or portable device, with either
electric, gas or charcoal fuel, used for the preparation of food.
   HAZARDOUS CONDITION.  A situation where the Perry Township Volunteer Fire
Department Officer in charge determines that the fire may be capable of
spreading or damaging other property or that the smoke emissions may be
offensive to occupants of surrounding property.
   OPEN BURNING or OPEN FIRE. Any burning of combustible materials out of
doors. Excluded is burning in a barbecue pit or grill where the base fuel for
heat is charcoal products.
   RECREATIONAL OR CAMP FIRE.  The burning of wood products other than refuse
where the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor
fireplace, barbecue grill or barbecue pit. A RECREATIONAL OR CAMP FIRE shall
have a total fuel area no greater than 36 inches in diameter and a fuel load
not to exceed two feet in height.
   REFUSE. Garbage, rubbish, paper, leaves, grass, trade waste, trash, plastic
or other waste products.
   SMOKE NUISANCE.  Smoke emissions may be deemed a nuisance when a complaint
is received that the smoke emissions are offensive to the complaining party.
   WOOD PRODUCTS. Untreated and unpainted lumber or natural wood other than
leaves and vines.
(Ord. 06-011, passed 9-5-06)
§ 94.02 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person or business shall kindle or maintain any open burning
consisting of a trash fire, leaf fire, bonfire, refuse fire, or other open
burning.
      (1)   Exemptions. The following types of fire may be allowed:
         (a)   Bonfires celebrating school pep rallies.
         (b)   Recreational camp fires for scouting or family cookout
activities.
      (2)   All exemptions shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   A garden hose connected to a water supply, buckets, shovel, fire
extinguisher or other approved fire-extinguishing equipment shall be readily
available at the burn site.
         (b)   A burn permit shall be obtained from the Perry Township
Volunteer Fire Department at least 24 hours in advance of the permitted open
burning. The burn permit signed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee shall
be on site at the time of the permitted fire. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
persons planning on or desiring to undertake recreational campfires for
scouting or family cookout activities as set forth above shall not be required
to obtain a burn permit for such activities.
         (c)   Only wood products shall be burned - no leaves, paper or trash.
         (d)   A fire shall be attended by a responsible party as listed on the
burn permit at all times until completely extinguished.
         (e)   If open burning creates a smoke nuisance, or a hazardous
condition exists, the open burning shall be immediately extinguished.
         (f)   A fire shall be located at least 25 feet away from any
structure, fence or right-of-way.
   (B)   Any person who recklessly, knowingly or intentionally kindles, or
maintains any open burning consisting of a trash fire, leaf fire, bonfire,
refuse fire, or other open burning that damages property of another person or
spreads to property of another person may be liable for criminal mischief.
   (C)   Burning other than mentioned in this chapter may be permitted provided
a variance pursuant to 326 IAC 4-1-1 has been approved and received from the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management. Burning must meet the
restrictions of the variance. The variance must be registered with the Perry
Township Volunteer Fire Department and on the burn site for verification.
   (D)   Penalties for violations of this chapter do not preclude the
Department of Environmental Management from seeking legal action for violations
of 326 IAC 4-1.
(Ord. 06-011, passed 9-5-06)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.03 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The Huntertown Clerk-Treasurer, with the assistance of the Perry Township
Volunteer Fire Department, shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the
terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-011, passed 9-5-06)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who maintains burning of combustible materials out of doors or
open burning not permitted in §
94.02 shall be in violation of this chapter. The fine shall be $50. If the
violator does not appear in response to a notice issued to them or placed in a
noticeable location at the place of residence, business, or burn site within a
period of 15 calendar days from date and time shown on said notice, the fine
shall be $75. If the fine has not been paid within 15 days of the date of
issuance, the ordinance violation may be prosecuted in accordance with I.C. 34-
28-5 , and the violator shall be obligated to pay any costs imposed by reason
of the docketing in the county court in addition to the fine prescribed in this
section.
(Ord. 06-011, passed 9-5-06)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Policy statement
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related housing
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
95.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
95.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.09   Exemptions
   
95.10   Administrative enforcement
§ 95.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Town of Huntertown to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and IC 22-
9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 11-009, passed 11-7-11)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (IC 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. (IC 22-9.5-2-3) means the Indiana Civil Rights Commission
created pursuant to IC 22-9-1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT. (IC 22-9.5-2-4) means a person, including the Commission, who
files a complaint under IC 22-9.5-6.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families. (IC 22-9.5-2-8)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §
95.04,
95.05,
95.06,
95.07 or
95.08 or IC 22-9.5-5.
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (IC 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in below under FAMILIAL STATUS.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990;
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under IC 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code (IC 22-9.5-2-10(b)); nor does the term HANDICAP include
an individual solely because that individual is a transvestite (IC 22-9.5-2-10
(c)).
Editor’s note:
   IC 22-9.5-2-10 was repealed by P.L. 99-2007, Sec. 224.
   PERSON. (IC 22-9.5-2-11), includes one or more individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code,
receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. (IC 22-9.5-2-13), includes to lease, to sublease, to let and
otherwise to grant for a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned
by the occupant.
(Ord. 11-009, passed 11-7-11)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
95.09 and IC 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in IC 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
95.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and IC 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (B) of this section, nothing in
§
95.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transaction
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 11-009, passed 11-7-11)
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
95.03 and except as exempted by §§
95.03(B) and
95.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person; or
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13,1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               A.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               B.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and
other environmental controls in accessible locations;
               C.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
               D.   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as “AANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (F)(3)(c)3.
               E.   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the properly of others.
(Ord. 11-009, passed 11-7-11)
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED HOUSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex., handicap, or familial
status.
(Ord. 11-009, passed 11-7-11)
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 11-009, passed 11-7-11)
§ 95.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §
95.03,
95.04,
95.05 or
95.06.
(Ord. 11-009, passed 11-7-11)
§ 95.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 11-009, passed 11-7-11)
§ 95.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under IC 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program); or
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 11-009, passed 11-7-11)
§ 95.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of IC 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because of
lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer enforcement
proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein elects to
refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this chapter by
complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to IC 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under IC 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town or the chief elected official’s
designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 11-009, passed 11-7-11)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
111.   SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
   
110.01   Issuance of liquor retailer's permit to premises
§ 110.01 ISSUANCE OF LIQUOR RETAILER'S PERMIT TO PREMISES.
   The consent of the town is hereby given and granted unto the proper legal
authorities of the state to issue liquor retailer's permits for the sale of
alcoholic, spirituous beverages to applicants otherwise duly qualified to
premises within said town, all agreeable to the provisions of IC 7.1-3-9, as
added by Acts 1973, P.L. 55, § 1, p. 290.
(Ord. 85-005, passed 4-1-85)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Registration required
   
111.02   Term
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person or group desiring to solicit the sale of goods, services or
charitable contributions within the town shall register with the Town Council
prior to engaging in any such solicitations.
   (B)   The Town Council shall not deny any person or group the right to
register provided that the solicitations are for lawful purposes and do not
constitute fraud nor undue harassment upon the citizens of the town.
(Ord. 58, passed 4-10-78)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.02 TERM.
   Each person or group desiring to conduct such solicitations shall register
with the Town Council and such registration shall be good for a period of one
year.
(Ord. 58, passed 4-10-78)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or group failing to register shall be subject to a fine of $10
for each home or place of business where a solicitation is sought. Each such
unregistered solicitation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 58, passed 4-10-78)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST TOWN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST TOWN REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Smoking on town property
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 13, 14, 15, 16 or 17 years of age
to be in a public place within the town:
      (1)   Between 12:00 p.m. (midnight) and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 6:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 13 years of age to be in a
public place in the town after 10:00 p.m. or before 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his parent, guardian or
custodian; or
      (3)   Participating in or returning from lawful employment or a lawful
athletic, educational, entertainment, religious, or social event.
(Ord. 89-005, passed 8-1-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.02 SMOKING ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in the Town Hall and on the property upon which
it is situated, 15617 Lima Road, Huntertown, Indiana; and
   (B)   Smoking is prohibited within eight feet of a public entrance to the
following places of employment:
      (1)   Huntertown Water Treatment Plant, 1707 West Gump Road, Huntertown,
Indiana;
      (2)   Huntertown maintenance building, 1640 West Cedar Canyon Road,
Huntertown, Indiana; and
      (3)   Byron Water Treatment Plant, 2240 Carroll Road, Huntertown,
Indiana.
(Ord. 12-008, passed 7-2-12)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
152.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
      
153.   [RESERVED]
      
154.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Adoption of County Building Code by reference
Building and Construction Standards
   
150.15   Adoption of county building standards by reference
   
150.16   Standards and specifications for construction
Smoke Detectors
   
150.25   Definitions
   
150.26   Family dwelling units to be equipped with smoke detector
   
150.27   Installation and location
   
150.28   Maintenance, repair or removal; responsibility
   
150.29   Duty of property owner
   
150.30   Enforcement authority
Building Department
   
150.40   Designation of County Building Department
   
150.41   Enforcement agent for town
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY BUILDING CODE BY REFERENCE.
   The town hereby elects to make itself subject to an ordinance adopted by the
County Board of Commissioners, said ordinance being adopted as Ordinance 83-3-
1, being a Building Code ordinance, and all amendments, revisions, replacements
and substitutions thereto; and such ordinance is hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated as part of this code as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-4-83)
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 150.15 ADOPTION OF COUNTY BUILDING STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   The town hereby elects to make itself subject to an ordinance adopted by the
County Board of Commissioners, said ordinance being adopted as Ordinance 83-3-
2, being a building standards ordinance, and all amendments, revisions,
replacements and substitutions thereto; and such ordinance is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated as part of this code as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-4-83)
§ 150.16 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   The Town Council does hereby approve and adopt the Huntertown "Standards and
Specifications" for construction, a copy of which is incorporated herein by
reference, which may be amended and supplemented from time to time, for use by
developers and contractors, and for the town's engineer to evaluate plans for
construction within the town and the service areas of its utilities.
(Res. 06-002, passed 1-16-06)
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 150.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT. That structure, area, room or combination of rooms in which a
family (or individual) lives. This is meant to cover living area only and not
common usage areas in multi-family buildings such as corridors, lobbies,
basements, and the like.
   LABELED. Equipment or materials to which has been attached a label, symbol
or other identifying mark of an organization acceptable to the authority having
jurisdiction.
   LISTED. Equipment or materials included in a list published by an
organization acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction and which product
meets appropriate standards or has been tested and found suitable for use in a
specified manner.
   NFPA74. Standard 74 of the National Fire Protection Association, which is
located in Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269.
   SLEEPING AREAS. The area or areas of the family living unit in which the
bedrooms (or sleeping rooms) separated by other use areas, such as kitchens or
living rooms, (but not bathrooms) shall be considered SLEEPING AREAS.
   SMOKE DETECTOR. A device which detects visible or invisible particles or
products of combustion other than heat, as approved by Underwriters
Laboratories, Inc. or Factory Mutual. The SMOKE DETECTOR shall be equipped with
a test button, and it shall produce an alarm signal upon detection of any
visible or invisible particles or products of combustion. It may be either
battery powered with a minimum nine volt or it may be powered by a 110 volt
alternating current.
(Ord. 87-007, passed 9-1-87)
§ 150.26 FAMILY DWELLING UNITS TO BE EQUIPPED WITH SMOKE DETECTOR.
   All family dwelling units within the limits of the town shall be equipped
with a minimum of one functional, properly located, labeled and listed, smoke
detector, or its equivalent or better, as described in the National Fire
Protection Association Standard 74.
(Ord. 87-007, passed 9-1-87)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.27 INSTALLATION AND LOCATION.
   (A)   If placement in dwelling units is not specified by the manufacturer,
then the smoke detector shall be installed to protect the sleeping areas and
shall be located outside of the bedrooms but in the immediate vicinity of the
sleeping areas, within 15 feet of all rooms used for sleeping areas.
   (B)   If method of installation is not specified by the manufacturer, the
smoke detector shall be installed on or near the ceiling, not less than six
inches from any wall, or on a wall, not less than six inches nor more than 12
inches from the ceiling, and its installation shall be subject to approval by
the authority having jurisdiction. No detector shall be recessed into the
ceiling.
   (C)   If a smoke detector is solely A.C. powered and the manufacturer of
such detector device does not supply specifications as to its installation, it
must be directly attached to a junction box not controlled by any switch other
than the main power supply. The installation of an A.C. powered detector shall
conform to all electrical standards adopted by the County Building Department.
A smoke detector required under this code shall be installed according to the
directions and specifications of the manufacturer, but if in conflict with any
county electrical standard, the county electrical standard shall take
precedence.
(Ord. 87-007, passed 9-1-87)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.28 MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR REMOVAL; RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or remove any smoke
detector, except when it is necessary for maintenance or inspection purposes.
Any smoke detector removed for repair, replacement, rebuilding, repainting or
remodeling shall be reinstalled or replaced so that it is operable and in place
during normal sleeping hours, before said dwelling unit is reinhabited.
   (A)   Rental residential dwelling units.  Each smoke detector shall be
tested in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations, but shall be tested
at 12-month intervals in every individual residential dwelling unit, and
maintained as necessary, to ensure it is in operable condition. At any change
of tenancy, smoke detectors shall be tested and be in operable condition before
the unit is reoccupied.
   (B)   Owner-occupied dwelling units.  Each smoke detector shall be tested in
accordance with manufacturer's recommendations, and shall be tested at 12-month
intervals, and maintained as necessary, to ensure it is in operable condition.
(Ord. 87-007, passed 9-1-87)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.29 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   Every owner shall be responsible for the installation of smoke detectors as
provided in this subchapter in any residential dwelling owned by him. In the
event the residential dwelling unit is a residential unit and nonowner-
occupied, then it shall be the responsibility of the tenant of said dwelling
unit to install and maintain such smoke detectors which shall be provided by
the owner and to maintain them in good working order until said tenant vacates
the premises unless said smoke detector requires A.C. power supply, solely, in
which case the responsibility of maintaining such smoke detector shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the property.
(Ord. 87-007, passed 9-1-87)
§ 150.30 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The County Building Department and/or the Town Volunteer Fire Department
Company shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the terms of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 87-007, passed 9-1-87)
BUILDING DEPARTMENT
§ 150.40 DESIGNATION OF COUNTY BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
   The town hereby elects to make itself subject to an ordinance adopted by the
County Board of Commissioners, said ordinance being adopted as Ordinance G-83-
2-3, being a Building Department ordinance, and all amendments, revisions,
replacements and substitutions thereto.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-4-83)
§ 150.41 ENFORCEMENT AGENT FOR TOWN.
   (A)   The town does hereby designate the County Building Department as the
town's agent to enforce on behalf of the town, pursuant to the provisions of IC
36-7-8-7, the county ordinances adopted under the provisions of IC 36-7-8-3,
and the standards imposed by IC 22-15-2-7; and the county does hereby agree to
the designation and agrees that the County Building Department shall provide
the services required by such designation.
   (B)   The County Building Department shall retain the fees collected by it
pursuant to such county ordinance as its compensation for acting as such agent.
   (C)   For the purpose of performing said functions, the county shall furnish
and supply all necessary labor, supervision, equipment and supplies necessary
to maintain the level of service to be rendered hereunder.
   (D)   All persons employed in the performance of such services and functions
pursuant to this section for said town shall be county employees, and no town
employee as such shall be taken over by said county, and no person employed
hereunder shall have any town pension, civil service, or any status or right.
   (E)   The town shall not be called upon to assume any liability for the
direct payment of any salaries, wages or other compensation to any county
personnel performing services hereunder for said town, or any liability other
than that provided for in this section.
   (F)   Except as herein otherwise specified, the town shall not be liable for
compensation or indemnity to any county employee for injury or sickness arising
out of his employment.
(Ord. 88-003, passed 3-1-88)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §§
150.25 through
150.30 shall be subject to a fine of $50.
   (B)   Each day such violation is permitted to continue may be deemed to
constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Funds received from penalties pursuant to §§
150.25 through
150.30 shall go to the General Fund of the Town Volunteer Fire Department
Company.
(Ord. 87-007, passed 9-1-87)
CHAPTER 151: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of County Minimum Housing Code by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY MINIMUM HOUSING CODE BY REFERENCE.
   The town hereby elects to make itself subject to an ordinance adopted by the
County Board of Commissioners, said ordinance being adopted as Ordinance G-80-
5-1, being a Minimum Housing Code ordinance, and all amendments, revisions,
replacements and substitutions thereto; and such ordinance is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated as part of this code as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-4-83)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
Comprehensive Plan
   
152.01   Title and adoption
   
152.02   Guidance and consideration
   
152.03   Amendments
   
152.04   Copy on file
Economic Revitalization Areas
   
152.20   Application procedures for designating economic revitalization areas
   
152.21   Community benefit review
   
152.22   Compliance with statement of benefits (CF-1) annual review
   
152.23   Waivers of noncompliance
   
152.24   Delegation of responsibility
Transportation Plan
   
152.30   Title and adoption
   
152.31   Guidance and consideration
   
152.32   Copy on file
Administration
   
152.40   Designation of County Plan Commission
   
152.41   Designation of County Board of Zoning Appeals
   
152.42   Designation of County Zoning Administrator
   
152.43   Statutory duties and functions
   
152.44   Department of Redevelopment and Redevelopment Commission
Standards and Specifications
   
152.50   Standards and Specifications adopted
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 152.01 TITLE AND ADOPTION.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan for the town shall be formally known as “The
Comprehensive Plan for the Town of Huntertown” or the “Comprehensive Plan.” The
Comprehensive Plan, containing goals, objectives, strategies, guiding
principles, maps, figures, and charges for community facilities, community
identity and appearance, economic development, environmental stewardship,
housing and neighborhoods, land use, transportation, and utilities, was adopted
by the Town Council on September 19, 2005.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Plan for Allen County shall be formally known as
“The Comprehensive Plan for the City of Fort Wayne and Allen County” (Plan-It
Allen); it may also be cited and referred to as the “Comprehensive Plan.” The
Comprehensive Plan, containing goals, objectives, strategies, guiding
principles, maps, figures, and charges for community facilities, community
identity and appearance, economic development, environmental stewardship,
housing and neighborhoods, land use, transportation, and utilities, was adopted
by the Board of Commissioners of the County of Allen on March 30, 2007.
(Ord. 16-015, passed 12-5-16)
§ 152.02 GUIDANCE AND CONSIDERATION.
   The Town Council and each governmental entity within the planning
jurisdiction of the Plan Commission shall be guided by and give consideration
to the general policy and pattern of development set out in the Comprehensive
Plan and to other land use policies adopted in this subchapter, including the:
   (A)   Authorization, acceptance, or construction of water mains, sewers,
connections, facilities, or utilities;
   (B)   Authorization, construction, development, alteration, or abandonment
of public ways, public places, public lands, public buildings and structures,
or public utilities;
   (C)   Objectives and policies for future land use development; and
   (D)   Adoption, amendment, or repeal of zoning ordinances, (including zoning
maps), subdivision control ordinances, historic preservation ordinances, and
other land use ordinances.
(Ord. 16-015, passed 12-5-16)
§ 152.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan shall be prepared and approved
according to the procedures set forth in IC 36-7-4-500 (the 500 series -
Comprehensive Plan).
(Ord. 16-015, passed 12-5-16)
§ 152.04 COPY ON FILE.
   A copy of the approved Comprehensive Plan, including all maps and
amendments, shall be placed and kept on file in the office of the Allen County
Recorder. A copy of the approved Plan shall also be placed and kept on file in
the office of the Department of Planning Services and Town Hall and shall be
available for public examination during the regular business hours of said
offices.
(Ord. 16-015, passed 12-5-16)
ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
§ 152.20 APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR DESIGNATING ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS.
   The Council, in accordance with IC 6-1.1-12.1 et seq. shall make available
the opportunity to receive real estate and personal property tax abatement to
qualifying companies located within the Town of Huntertown.
   (A)   The economic development division staff of the Allen County Department
of Planning Services shall provide a formal application and statement of
benefits (SB-l) form(s) to interested parties.
      (1)   The owner(s) of property located within the jurisdiction of the
Council shall initiate the process by filing a completed and signed application
and statement of benefits (SB-l) form(s) with economic development staff.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by the established filing fee.
         (a)   Five hundred dollars for real or personal property deduction;
         (b)   Seven hundred and fifty dollars for both real and personal
property deduction; and
         (c)   Five hundred dollars for vacant building deduction only.
      (3)   Upon receipt of an application, the economic development staff
shall:
         (a)   Note the date of filing on the application; and
         (b)   Review it for completeness.
         (c)   Acceptable applications shall be submitted to the Council for
formal consideration at their next available meeting.
         (d)   Provide the Council with appropriate maps necessary to identify
the area for which the applicant requests economic revitalization area
designation along with a simplified description of its boundaries.
         (e)   Provide the applicant written notice when the Council will
formally consider the application. The applicant or its representative shall be
present at the Council meeting at which the application and statement of
benefits form(s) is/are considered.
      (4)   After review of the information provided in the application, by the
staff, the applicant and other interested persons, the Council may:
         (a)   Find that the real estate under consideration meets the
definition and standards of an economic revitalization area, as set forth in IC
6-1.1-12.1-1(1) and §
152.21. In such instances, the Council may adopt a declaratory resolution
stating same and cause the action set forth in division (A)(5) herein to occur.
Said declaratory resolution shall include the reasons upon which the
determination is made.
         (b)   Find that there is insufficient information and defer action on
the matter. The applicant shall be provided written notice of the reasons for
deferral within ten days of that action.
         (c)   Determine that the real estate should not be designated as an
economic revitalization area and provide the applicant written notice thereof.
      (5)   Upon adoption of a declaratory resolution the Council shall:
         (a)   Set the date, time, and location for a public hearing at which
the Council will receive and hear all comments from interested persons;
         (b)   Cause notice of the adoption and substance of the declaratory
resolution to be published in accordance with IC 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c) and IC 5-3-
1. The notice shall state that a description of the affected area is available
and can be inspected in the offices of the Allen County Department of Planning
Services, the Allen County Assessor, and the Huntertown Town Hall. The notice
shall also state the time, date, and location of the subsequent public hearing
on the matter;
         (c)   Cause a generalized description of the subject real estate to be
attached to the declaratory resolution and file same with the Allen County
Assessor and the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (6)   Upon considering the evidence presented at the public hearing, the
Council shall take final action on the request for designation by either
confirming, modifying and confirming, or rescinding the subject declaratory
resolution. The applicant(s) or its representative shall be present at the
public hearing to provide such information as may be needed.
      (7)   The determination of the confirmatory resolution made pursuant to
division (A)(6) herein shall be final except that an appeal may be taken as
provided in IC 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(d) and IC 6-1.1-12.l-2.5(e).
      (8)   Upon confirming, or modifying and confirming, a declaratory
resolution by the procedures set forth herein, the Allen County Auditor and the
Economic Development Division shall keep a permanent record of the designation
of the subject economic revitalization area. The Economic Development Division
staff shall also provide the Auditor with a final designation packet to be
utilized in the review of applications for deduction pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-
5 and IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.4.
   (B)   Applications will be evaluated and the information provided within
will be applied toward the point system to determine the recommended length of
the abatement. Abatements can be granted for a period of three, five, seven or
ten years for both real and personal property.
   (C)   For applications that include personal property, the applicant shall
provide the expected life of each asset (piece of equipment) for depreciation
purposes. The abatement period for personal property may be limited to a term
that is less than the depreciable life of the asset.
   (D)   For applications that include manufacturing equipment, the applicant
shall indicate whether special tools (as defined by Indiana Administrative Code
Title 50 Department of Local Government Finance, Article 4.2 Assessment of
Tangible Personal Property) are included in the new manufacturing equipment.
Special tooling may be limited to a one-year abatement term.
   (E)   For applicants indicating that there is a retail component to their
business, they must also indicate, by percentage of overall business, to what
extent.
      (l)   Anything less than 10% shall be considered a de minimus amount
while any amount above 50% will make the project ineligible for abatement.
      (2)   For retail percentages between 10% and 50%, only the non-retail
percentage of the total investment shall be included in the abatement deduction
amount.
   (F)   For applicants that are service-based businesses the following
criteria must be met to be eligible for abatement:
      (1)   More than 25% of the customer base for the service-based business
is located outside of Allen County, Indiana or more than 25% of the annual
gross revenue of the service-based business is generated by customers located
outside of Allen County; or
      (2)   (a)   The amount of the investment for which the abatement is being
sought by the applicant is $5,000,000 or more.
         (b)   Under division (F) a service-based business is a commercial
enterprise that derives more than 50% of its annual gross revenue directly from
labor performed in an expert manner by an individual or team for the benefit of
its customers/clients as opposed to the sale of tangible goods and/or products.
The definition includes, without limitation, businesses such as law firms,
accounting firms, consulting firms, financial services firms, insurance
agencies, marketing/advertising agencies, and medical and dental practices. The
definition does not include retail establishments, the eligibility of which is
determined under IC 6-1.1-12.1-3(e).
   (G)   Applicants for projects involving the redevelopment or rehabilitation
of a speculative building may receive a ten-year phased deduction without
adhering to the county's point system. For purposes of this section, a
speculative building is a building development, construction, or rehabilitation
of at least 50,000 square feet that is reasonably likely to create new jobs
when the developer has no formal commitment from a buyer or tenant to purchase
or lease the end product, whether the end product is a fully completed, move-in
ready building or a partially completed shell suitable for build-out
improvements by the future owner or tenant. Additional incentives for the final
build-out and personal property (equipment) may be considered upon the
identification of the end user. Any additional incentives will adhere to the
county's point system for real and personal property abatement at the time of
submittal.
   (H)   (1)   The owner of an eligible vacant building, as defined in IC 6-
1.1-12.1-1(19), is entitled to a deduction from the assessed value of the
building if the property owner or tenant of the property owner occupies the
eligible vacant building and uses it for commercial or industrial purposes.
      (2)   Property owner is entitled to the deduction for no more than two
years with the deduction schedule as follows:
         (a)   Year 1 = 100% deduction; and
         (b)   Year 2 = 50% deduction.
   (I)   The criteria for a 20-year personal property deduction are as follows:
      (1)   The company will create at least 1,000 new jobs within two years of
submitting its application;
      (2)   The company will invest at least $500,000,000 in eligible personal
property;
      (3)   The amount of income taxes generated by the new jobs will be equal
to or exceed the value of the deduction after year ten years. Per IC 6-1.1-
12.1-18(e), Council will hold a public hearing for any abatement schedule that
exceeds ten years to review the taxpayer's compliance with statement of
benefits form (CF-l) after the tenth year.
      (4)   The deduction schedule for a 20-year deduction is as The deduction
schedule for a 20-year deduction is as follows:
Twenty Year Deduction Schedule
Twenty Year Deduction Schedule
Year 1  100%
Year 2  95%
Year 3  90%
Year 4  85%
Year 5  80%
Year 6  75%
Year 7  70%
Year 8  65%
Year 9  60%
Year 10 55%
Year 11 50%
Year 12 45%
Year 13 40%
Year 14 35%
Year 15 30%
Year 16 25%
Year 17 20%
Year 18 15%
Year 19 10%
Year 20 5%
 
(Res. 19-013, passed 6-3-19; Am. Res. 2020-018, passed 7-6-20; Am. Res. 2020-
025, passed 9-21-20)
§ 152.21 COMMUNITY BENEFIT REVIEW.
   The Council shall consider all findings of fact pertaining to an application
for tax abatement.
   (A)   The Council, in its deliberations, may, pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-2,
give consideration to the following general standards to determine if:
      (1)   The proposed use of the real estate for which a deduction is being
sought is consistent with the land use policies contained in the Huntertown
Comprehensive Plan adopted by the Council;
      (2)   The deduction will assist in the inducement of a project that will
result in the retention and/or creation of substantial employment opportunities
relative to the value of the investment;
      (3)   The deduction will encourage the use of vacant or under-utilized
land or improvement or replacement of a deteriorated or obsolete structure
designated as appropriate for industrial or commercial development;
      (4)   The deduction will encourage the improvement or replacement of
deteriorated or obsolete manufacturing equipment; or
      (5)   The deduction will assist in the inducement of a project which
would provide long-term benefits to the tax base of the Town of Huntertown and
Allen County warranting the granting of abatement.
   (B)   In all instances, the Council shall find that evidence has been
provided either in the application or during the public hearing that the real
estate proposed for designation is either in an area "which has become
undesirable for, or impossible of, normal development and occupancy because of
a lack of development, cessation of growth, deterioration of improvements or
character of occupancy, age, obsolescence, substandard buildings, or other
factors which have impaired values or prevent a normal development of property
or use of property" or "where a facility or a group of facilities that are
technologically, economically, or energy obsolete are located and where the
obsolescence may lead to a decline in employment and tax revenues".
   (C)   The Council shall not consider an application for designation, unless
a waiver of noncompliance has been granted pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-11.3, if
prior to the filing of the application:
      (1)   An improvement location permit has been filed for the project at
the Allen County Department of Planning Services and construction has begun on
the real property being considered for the abatement;
      (2)   A building permit for the subject rehabilitation has been filed for
the project at the Allen County Building Department and construction has begun
on the real property being considered for abatement; or
      (3)   Equipment for which a deduction is being sought has been installed
(as defined in Indiana Administrative Code Title 50 Department of Local
Government Finance, Article 4.2 Assessment of Tangible Personal Property).
   (D)   The Tax Abatement Development Fund shall be administered by the
Huntertown Town Council.
      (1)   Companies can voluntarily choose to contribute a portion of their
tax savings to the Town of Huntertown:
         (a)   Ten percent; or
         (b)   Five percent.
      (2)   The company will be awarded two points on the point system for
choosing to contribute.
      (3)   Eligible uses of the fund include:
         (a)   The construction, extension or completion of: sanitary sewer
lines, storm sewers, and other related drainage facilities; water lines; roads
and streets; rail spurs and sidings; street lights and/or traffic signalization
related to new construction or reconstruction of roads; and any other item
related to economic development projects the Town Council deems appropriate;
         (b)   The preparation of surveys, plans and specifications for the
construction of publicly owned and operated facilities, utilities, and
services;
         (c)   Low-interest grants/loans for the above purposes; and
         (d)   Low-interest grants/loans to other county economic development
bodies e.g., Huntertown Redevelopment Commission.
      (4)   Seven factors will be considered for an entity to be eligible to
receive assistance in the form of a grant or loan:
         (a)   Must be located currently in Huntertown or will be locating in
Huntertown;
         (b)   The amount of investment;
         (c)   The number of jobs created and/or retained;
         (d)   The level of the wages;
         (e)   Availability of funds from other sources;
         (f)   The public benefit to the health and welfare of Huntertown
residents; and
         (g)   Its use as the local share to leverage state and federal grants.
      (5)   The Town Council will be presented with the proposals for potential
economic development projects and they will be the entity who decides the
extent of the financial assistance for any project. Prior to either a grant or
loan being awarded the fund must have accumulated to a balance of $50,000.
      (6)   The monies not needed currently to meet current obligations shall
be invested. The interest which accrues from these investments shall be
credited to the fund.
      (7)   If the Huntertown Town Council determines this fund is no longer
serving a purpose, it will be left to the Council's discretion as to where the
money should be transferred, however the intent is for this money to be used to
further economic development activities.
(Res. 19-013, passed 6-3-19; Am. Res. 2020-018, passed 7-6-20; Am. Res. 2020-
025, passed 9-21-20)
§ 152.22 COMPLIANCE WITH STATEMENT OF BENEFITS (CF-1) ANNUAL REVIEW.
   The applicant shall provide economic development staff with an annual report
(compliance with statement of benefits, Form CF-l) showing the extent to which
there has been compliance with the statement of benefits (SB-l) form. The CF-
1 form must be filed with the Allen County Auditor and Economic Development
Division staff according to the filing schedule required by IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.1
and IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.6.
   (A)   Economic development division staff shall analyze all CF-1 forms and
compile a summary sheet and findings of fact to present to the Council from
which a determination of substantial compliance or non-compliance will be made.
   (B)   Economic Development Division staff shall use the following review
procedure of CF-1 forms:
      (1)   The first step in the review process compares the CF-1 form to the
statement of benefits (SB-l) form approved by Council to find whether the
project substantially complies with the SB-l. Substantial compliance shall be
defined as:
         (a)   Creating or retaining at least 75% of the total number of full-
time and/or part-time jobs delineated in the approved statement of benefits
(SB-l) form; and/or
         (b)   Creating or retaining at least 75% of the total salaries
delineated in the approved Statement of Benefits (SB-l) form, within the
timeframe projected in the applicant's approved statement of benefits (SB-l)
form.
      (2)   If the project is deemed not to be in substantial compliance in the
first step, the staff shall investigate further whether the property owner made
a reasonable effort to substantially comply and whether the applicant's failure
to substantially comply was caused by factors beyond their control. Staff will:
         (a)   Examine whether the investment in real estate or personal
property equals or exceeds 75% of the investment delineated in the approved
statement of benefits (SB-l) form within the projected timeframe; and
         (b)   Contact the person listed as the applicant contact person on the
CF-l form to seek an explanation as to why the project is not in substantial
compliance. The staff may request the explanation be provided in writing. If
the staff finds, based on the second step, that the applicant made a reasonable
effort to substantially comply and that the applicant's failure to
substantially comply was caused by factors beyond the control of the applicant,
the project will be considered in substantial compliance for purposes of the
CF-1 form. If the staff finds, based on the second step, that the applicant did
not make a reasonable effort to substantially comply and that its failure to
substantially comply was not caused by factors beyond the applicant's control,
the project will be considered not in substantial compliance for purposes of
the CF-1 form. Staff will provide a report summarizing the staff's findings to
the Council from which the Council can make a determination as to whether the
project should or should not be deemed to be in substantial compliance.
   (C)   The Council will review the CF-1 forms using the following criteria:
      (1)   Employment.
         (a)   Number of employees retained (jobs retained); and
         (b)   Number of additional employees (jobs created).
      (2)   Salaries.
         (a)   Salaries of employees retained (salaries retained); and
         (b)   Salaries of additional employees (salaries created).
      (3)   Investment (values of proposed project).
         (a)   Real estate: cost of real estate improvements; and
         (b)   Personal property: cost of manufacturing, research and
development, logistical distribution and information technology equipment.
   (D)   State law provides that within 45 days after an applicant files a CF-
l form, the Council shall determine whether the applicant has substantially
complied with the statement of benefits (SB-l) form. Those forms that are found
by the staff not to be in substantial compliance will be brought to the
attention of the Council first for the Council to determine what further action
is necessary. However, since the 45-day time period only limits the Council's
ability to pursue terminating a deduction, those that are found to be in
compliance will be submitted for formal approval with a final report following
the end of the filing period.
   (E)   If an applicant fails to file a CF-1 form by the filing deadline,
fails to file a CF-1 form that provides sufficient information (as determined
by staff) to determine substantial compliance, or the circumstances are such
that the staff has information indicating that the information provided on the
CF-1 form may be inaccurate, the staff will make a reasonable effort to contact
the applicant to obtain a complete and accurate CF-1 form. If the applicant
still fails to provide a complete and accurate CF-l form, then the staff will
bring the failure to the attention of the Council for the Council to determine
whether the project should be deemed not to be in substantial compliance. The
staff, working with the Allen County Auditor's Office, will monitor property
owners who have received a SB-l approval from the Council and who are eligible
to receive a tax abatement deduction, to facilitate the timely and accurate
submission of CF-1 forms.
   (F)   The staff's determination that the project fails to substantially
comply with a statement of benefits does not necessarily mean that the
abatement will be rescinded. If the Council, based on the information provided
by the staff, determines that a project is not in substantial compliance, the
staff will send official notification to the applicant and schedule a hearing
with the Council pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.9. The hearing will be held within
30 days after the date on which the notice is mailed.
   (G)   Based on the evidence presented at the hearing by the applicant and
other interested parties, the Council shall determine whether the applicant has
made reasonable efforts to substantially comply with the statement of benefits
and whether any failure to substantially comply was caused by factors beyond
the control of the applicant. If the Council determines that the applicant has
not made reasonable efforts to comply with the statement of benefits, the
Council shall adopt a resolution terminating the applicant's deduction under
the authority of IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.9(c).
   (H)   An applicant that has received a deduction for real property or
personal property and:
      (1)   Ceases operations at the facility for which the deduction was
granted; and
      (2)   Is found to have intentionally provided false information
concerning plans to continue operations at the facility, may be required to
repay to the Allen County Treasurer, under the authority of IC 6-1.1-12.1-12,
those property taxes that were deducted.
(Res. 19-013, passed 6-3-19; Am. Res. 2020-018, passed 7-6-20; Am. Res. 2020-
025, passed 9-21-20)
§ 152.23 WAIVERS OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Indiana State law IC 6-1.1-12.1-9.5 and 6-1.1-12.1-11.3, makes it
possible for an applicant to request that the designating body waive
noncompliance for the following:
      (l)   Failure to submit a statement of benefits prior to a public
hearing;
      (2)   Failure to designate an economic revitalization area (ERA) or
submit a statement of benefits prior to construction of a facility and/or
installation of equipment;
      (3)   Failure to make the necessary findings of fact as required in IC 6-
1.1-12.1-2, 6-1.1-12.1-3, 6-1.1-12.1-4.5 or 6-1.1- 12.1-4.8 before designating
an area as an ERA or authorizing a deduction for new equipment; and
      (4)   Failure to file a timely and complete deduction application as
required by IC 6-1.1-12.1-5, 6-1.1-12.1-5.3 and 6-1.1- 12.1-5.4.
   (B)   Waivers of noncompliance should only be considered for those companies
in compliance with local and state governmental entities.
      (l)   Companies must verify that they are not delinquent on any taxes
owed (property, income or sales), their compliance with statement of benefits
(CF-1) form(s) have been filed on time and are substantially compliant, and
there are no outstanding state or federal environmental issues.
      (2)   Staff will verify and affirm that companies have met all above
criteria.
   (C)   To begin the waiver process, the applicant must first contact Economic
Development Division staff in the Allen County Department of Planning Services.
      (l)   If staff determines that a waiver is needed, a formal request from
the company should be made in writing explaining the circumstance(s).
      (2)   The company will also need to address the steps needed to correct
the problem and the actions the company will take to correct further problems
from occurring.
   (D)   The following procedures shall be followed:
      (l)   Waiver of noncompliance for failure to file timely application and
statement of benefits (SB-1) form(s).
         (a)   For personal property, waivers will only be considered on
equipment installed within one month prior to date application is received.
         (b)   For real property, waivers will only be considered on
applications where applicant has received an improvement location permit/
structural permit and construction has commenced.
         (c)   A fee of $500 will be required to offset the costs incurred.
      (2)   Waiver of noncompliance for failure to file timely deduction
paperwork.
         (a)   Personal property waivers will only be considered for failure to
file l03-ERA and 103-EL paperwork within the last 12 months or one year.
         (b)   Real property waivers will only be considered for failure to
file Form 322/RE within the last 12 months or one year.
         (c)   The Council may not grant waivers for property owners who have
failed to file deduction paperwork more than once during the deduction period.
         (d)   A fee of $500 will be required to offset the costs incurred.
      (3)   Waivers of noncompliance for clerical errors.
         (a)   Personal property waivers will only be considered on clerical
errors made by the applicant that affect the proper reporting of project
location, project or investment timeframe, and cost of investment.
         (b)   Real property waivers will only be considered on clerical errors
made by the applicant that affect the proper reporting of project location,
project or investment timeframe, and cost of investment.
         (c)   A fee of $500 will be required to offset the costs incurred.
(Res. 19-013, passed 6-3-19; Am. Res. 2020-018, passed 7-6-20; Am. Res. 2020-
025, passed 9-21-20)
§ 152.24 DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Council does hereby designate the Allen County Department of Planning
Services Economic Development Division as the administrative agency for
processing applications for the designation of economic revitalization areas.
The Economic Development Division, in conducting its responsibilities under
this delegation, may undertake the following actions:
   (A)   Keep abreast of changes in the state enabling legislation and
communicate changes to Council members;
   (B)   Develop and implement procedures to address changes in the state
enabling legislation;
   (C)   Maintain an appropriate application form that is consistent with state
law and Council procedures;
   (D)   Accept applications for designation and collect the required filing
fee to be submitted to the Allen County Treasurer;
   (E)   Review said applications for completeness and provide Council with
supporting data necessary to properly consider such requests;
   (F)   Establish guidelines to evaluate applications in order to determine
the length of the abatement period;
   (G)   Prepare public review files required by IC 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c);
   (H)   Prepare and cause to be published legal notice of the Council's
consideration of said application as required in IC 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c) and IC 5-
3-1;
   (I)   Prepare draft declaratory and confirmatory resolutions for the
Council's review and consideration;
   (J)   Keep permanent records of all properly filed applications and duly
designated economic revitalization areas;
   (K)   Act on behalf of the Council in corresponding with the applicant(s)
and other interested persons regarding the status of an application;
   (L)   Prepare and provide the Allen County Auditor with a final designation
packet which shall include information necessary for the review of applications
for deduction pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-5, IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.3, and I.C.6-1.l-
12.1-5.4;
   (M)   Evaluate annual reports (CF-1 forms) submitted by applicants under §
152.22 and provide a report to the Council within 45 days summarizing
compliance of reporting companies; and
   (N)   Provide clerical duties for the Tax Abatement Development Fund,
including invoicing and receiving of contributions to the fund.
(Res. 19-013, passed 6-3-19; Am. Res. 2020-018, passed 7-6-20; Am. Res. 2020-
025, passed 9-21-20)
TRANSPORTATION PLAN
§ 152.30 TITLE AND ADOPTION.
   A Transportation Plan, prepared by the Northeastern Indiana Regional
Coordinating Council and adopted by the Town Council, shall be considered the
Transportation Plan for the town. It may be cited and referred to as the
“Transportation Plan.”
(Ord. 16-015, passed 12-5-16)
§ 152.31 GUIDANCE AND CONSIDERATION.
   The Town Council and other governmental entities within the jurisdiction of
the Plan Commission shall pay reasonable regard to the general policies,
objectives, and proposed highway, transit, and pedestrian/bicycle systems
improvement projects set forth in the Transportation Plan as part of the review
and approval of proposed projects; the authorization, construction,
development, and improvement of public streets and roadways; the abandonment of
public ways; and other matters relevant to the Transportation Plan.
(Ord. 16-015, passed 12-5-16)
§ 152.32 COPY ON FILE.
   A copy of the approved Transportation Plan shall be kept on file in the
office of the Town Clerk. A copy of the Transportation Plan shall also be
placed and kept on file in the office of the Department of Planning Services
and in the office of the Northeastern Indiana Regional Coordinating Council
(NIRCC). The Transportation Plan shall be available for public examination
during the regular business hours of said offices.
(Ord. 16-015, passed 12-5-16)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.40 DESIGNATION OF COUNTY PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Plan Commission is hereby designated as the Plan Commission
of the town, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Section 25 of
Chapter 174 of the Acts of the Indiana General Assembly for the year 1947 as
amended or supplemental thereto.
   (B)   The County Plan Commission so designated as the Plan Commission for
the town by this section shall have all of the powers and duties granted to a
Plan Commission of a town including the Town of Huntertown, pursuant to and as
provided by Chapter 174 of the Acts of the Indiana General Assembly for the
year 1947.
(Ord. 33, passed - - 70)
§ 152.41 DESIGNATION OF COUNTY BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The County Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby designated as the Board of
Zoning Appeals of the town.
(Ord. 33, passed - - 70)
§ 152.42 DESIGNATION OF COUNTY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The County Zoning Administrator is hereby designated as the Zoning
Administrator of the town.
(Ord. 33, passed - - 70)
§ 152.43 STATUTORY DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   The town by its duly elected, qualified and acting Town Council does by this
subchapter hereby ratify, confirm and approve all acts of the County Plan
Commission, the County Board of Zoning Appeals and the County Zoning
Administrator in regard to the performance of their statutory duties and
functions pursuant to and in accordance with the Acts of the Indiana General
Assembly as the same may now apply to said town or as the same may apply to
said town in the future.
(Ord. 33, passed - - 70)
§ 152.44 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Department of Redevelopment of the Town of
Huntertown, Indiana (the "Department of Redevelopment"), which shall be
entitled to exercise all the rights, powers, privileges and immunities accorded
to such department by the Act.
   (B)   Such Department of Redevelopment shall be under the control of a Board
of five voting members and one non-voting member to be known as the Town of
Huntertown Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   (1)   There is hereby created a Board to be known as the Town of
Huntertown Redevelopment Commission. Three of said Commissioners shall be
appointed by the President of the Town Council, and two shall be appointed by
the Town Council of the town. The Town Council hereby appoints Rob Green and
Mike Stamets to serve as the Town Council's appointees for such purpose. In
addition, the Town Council President shall appoint one non-voting member from
the membership of a school board of a school corporation located wholly or
partly within the town. Each Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve for one
year from the first day of January after his or her appointment and until his
or her successor is appointed and has qualified, except that the original
Commissioners shall serve from the date of their appointment until the first
day of January in the second year after their appointment. If a vacancy occurs,
a successor shall be appointed in the same manner as the original Commissioner,
and the successor shall serve for the remainder of the vacated term.
      (2)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the form prescribed by
law, to be endorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall
be promptly filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
      (3)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall execute a bond payable to the state, with surety to be approved
by the Town Council of the town. The bond must be in a penal sum of $15,000 and
must be conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties of his or her
office and the accounting for all monies and property that may come into his or
her hands or under his or her control. The cost of the bond shall be paid by
the Redevelopment District.
   (D)   Such Commissioners shall have the qualifications prescribed by the
laws of the State of Indiana as from time to time amended and shall qualify as
therein provided; and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers and assume
the duties and obligations conferred and imposed by said Act, including but not
limited to the following qualifications:
      (1)   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age and
must be a resident of the town. If a Commissioner ceases to be qualified under
this section, he or she forfeits his or her office.
      (2)   No Redevelopment Commissioner of the town shall receive a salary;
but such Redevelopment Commissioners are entitled to reimbursement for expenses
necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
      (3)   A Redevelopment Commissioner may not have a pecuniary interest in
any contract, employment, purchase or sale made under the provisions of this
section and the Act. However, any property required for redevelopment purposes
in which a Commissioner has a pecuniary interest may be acquired, but only by
gift or condemnation. A transaction made in violation of this division of this
section is void.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town charged by law with the performance of
duties in respect to the funds and accounts of the town, shall perform the same
duties with respect to the funds and accounts of the Department of
Redevelopment, except as otherwise provided for in the Act.
(Ord. 19-004, passed 6-3-19)
STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 152.50 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS ADOPTED.
   The Standards and Specifications from municipal improvements within the town
and for developments outside the town for which interconnection to Huntertown
utilities will be requested, a copy of which is attached to Resolution No. 08-
002, is approved and adopted, superseding the Standards and Specifications
adopted January 16, 2006. A copy of the Standards and Specifications is
available for public inspection during normal business hours in the office of
the Clerk- Treasurer.
(Res. 08-002, passed 9-15-08; Am. Res. 17-001, passed 1-3-17)
CHAPTER 153: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   This chapter has been compiled and formatted by the Joint Land Use
staff of the Department of Planning Services for graphic and legibility
purposes.
   (B)   In December 2016, the Zoning Ordinance was reorganized to align with
the Allen County and City of Fort Wayne Zoning Ordinances; the effective date
of this reorganization was January 1, 2017.
   (C)   The document may be found at: http://allencounty.us/land-use/
ordinances and is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as if laid out
fully herein.
(Ord. 16-015, passed 12-5-16)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ACCEPTANCES
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   CONTRACTS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   VACATIONS
      
VI.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VII.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
TABLE I: ACCEPTANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
Res. 40       2-5-73      Accepting the dedicated streets in Hunter's Ridge
                          Addition for maintenance.
Res. 41       6-4-73      Accepting the dedicated streets in Willow Ridge
                          Subdivision for maintenance.
                          Accepting streets (Mercury Lane, Gemini Drive and
66            10-1-79     Apollo Drive) within Hunter Park Addition for
                          maintenance.
68            1-7-80      Accepting Rabbit Run in Hunter's Ridge Addition for
                          maintenance.
Res. 94-001   3-7-94      Accepting dedicated streets in Stoner's Mill Addition
                          for maintenance.
Res. 06-008   3-25-06     Accepting new subdivision streets for ownership and
                          maintenance.
Res. 12-021   12-17-12    Accepting new subdivision streets for ownership and
                          maintenance.
Res. 19-007   1-22-19     Accepting new streets (Willow Ridge Trail, Hatstick
                          Court and Fizzo Way) for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting streets (Hammock Drive and Tolee Court)
Res. 19-011   6-3-19      within the Preserves of Carroll Creek West for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting streets (Hammock Drive, Bozzio Road, Seger
Res. 19-020   11-4-19     Run and Haisley Court) within the Preserves of
                          Carroll Creek West for ownership and maintenance.
Res. 19-021   11-4-19     Accepting Verity Parkway in Drayton's Reserve
                          Subdivision for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Monte Carlo Drive and Avanti Drive within
Res. 2020-001 1-6-20      Classic Heights Extended South Subdivision for
                          ownership and maintenance.
Res. 2020-002 1-6-20      Accepting Freestone Place and Hummelstone Run within
                          Brownstone Manor for ownership and maintenance.
                          Authorizing extension of water and sewer service
Res. 2020-005 1-6-20      outside of town limits for a 37-lot subdivision plat
                          known as Cascata Estates.
                          Accepting Sonic Court, Casting Road, Gokey Boulevard,
Res. 2020-012 2-3-20      Skillet Avenue and Mosaic Street within Rolling Oaks
                          Subdivision for ownership and maintenance.
Res. 2020-21  8-17-20     Accepting five streets in Brownstone Manor
                          Subdivision for ownership and maintenance.
Res. 2020-22  8-17-20     Accepting three streets in Majestic Pointe
                          Subdivision for ownership and maintenance.
Res. 2020-26  9-21-20     Accepting three streets in Willow Ridge North
                          Subdivision for ownership and maintenance.
Res. 2020-27  11-16-20    Accepting three streets in Cascata Estates
                          Subdivision for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Anconia Cove, Cerro Verde Run, Grasberg
Res. 2020-028 12-7-20     Cove, Tally Ho Drive, Teniente Court and Verdigris
                          Pass in the Coves of Copper Creek Subdivision for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Anconia Cove and Teniente Court in the
Res. 2020-029 12-7-20     Coves of Copper Creek Subdivision for ownership and
                          maintenance.
                          Accepting Gokey Boulevard, Brewster Court and
Res. 2020-030 12-7-20     Switchfoot Drive in Rolling Oaks Subdivision for
                          ownership and maintenance.
Res. 2020-031 12-7-20     Accepting Lima Crossing Drive and Lima Crossing
                          Access #1 and #2 for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Portney Place, Seger Run and Watts Drive in
Res. 2020-032 12-21-20    Preserves of Carroll Creek West Subdivision for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Copper Mine Passage and Cuprum Pass located
Res. 2021-003 2-1-21      in the Rapids at Copper Creek - Section 1 for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Andina Trail, Cuprum Pass and Kidd Creek
Res. 2021-004 2-1-21      Crossover located in the Rapids at Copper Creek -
                          Section 2 for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Cananea Way, Copper Strike Pass and
Res. 2021-009 3-22-21     Radomiro Passage located in Grand Pointe at Copper
                          Creek - Section 1 for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Rittenhouse Place, Freestone Place and
Res. 2021-012 4-19-21     Delancey Court located in Brownstone Manor - Section
                          III for ownership and maintenance.
Res. 2021-16  6-7-21      Accepting Skillet Avenue and Firs Trail located in
                          Cliffs of Rolling Oaks for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting for ownership a street dedication deed for
Res. 2021-18  6-21-21     Lima Crossing Drive future connection to Lima
                          Crossing Access #3.
                          Accepting Andina Trail and Mount Isa Place located in
Res. 2021-025 10-4-21     The Rapids at Copper Creek for ownership and
                          maintenance.
                          Accepting Stone Table Boulevard located in The
Res. 2021-026 10-4-21     Highlands at Copper Creek for ownership and
                          maintenance.
                          Accepting Cananea Way, Muruntau Grove, Rame Pass,
Res. 2021-027 10-4-21     Escondida Cove, Copper Wood Place and Diavik Place
                          located in Grand Pointe at Copper Creek - Sections II
                          and II for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Stone Table Boulevard and Radomiro Passage
Res. 2021-035 11-1-21     located in Highlands at Copper Creek - Section 1 for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Switchgrass Run, Sundrops Cove, Quarry
Res. 2021-036 11-15-21    Boulevard and Hydrangea Run located in The Quarry -
                          Section 1 for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Hydrangea Run, Ninepark Cove, Crossvine
Res. 2021-037 11-15-21    Cove and Basalt Drive located in The Quarry - Section
                          2 for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Kidd Creek Crossover, Midnight Chase Grove,
Res. 2022-005 2-22-22     and Bingham Pass located in Ridgewood at Copper Creek
                          - Section I Subdivision for ownership and
                          maintenance.
Res. 2022-017 6-20-22     Accepting gift of .442 acres at the intersection of
                          Lima Road and Indiana State Road 3.
Res. 22-033   10-17-22    Accepting gift of 1.613 acres near the intersection
                          of West Shoaff and Hand Roads.
                          Accepting Hillsong Lane, Crown Place, Grits Way and
Res. 2022-036 12-5-22     Switchfoot Drive located in Rolling Oaks - Section 3
                          Subdivision for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Carrollton Court and Mosaic Court located
Res. 2022-037 12-5-22     in Rolling Oaks - Section 4 Subdivision for ownership
                          and maintenance.
                          Accepting Village Pass and Pueblo Trail located in
Res. 2022-038 12-5-22     Coves at Copper Creek - Section 3 Subdivision for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Ridley Park Way, Boeing Pass and Lakota
Res. 2022-039 12-5-22     Court located in Ridley Park - Section 1 Subdivision
                          for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Portland Cove and Freestone Place located
Res. 2022-040 12-5-22     in Brownstone Manor - Section 4 Subdivision for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Bozzio Road, Sickle Cove and Cultivator
Res. 2022-041 12-5-22     Court located in Majestic Pointe - Section 2
                          Subdivision for ownership and maintenance.
Res. 2022-042 12-5-22     Accepting Gul Street located in Villas at Copper
                          Creek Subdivision for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Firs Trail, Marcella Drive and Alquin Court
Res. 2022-043 12-5-22     located in Marcella - Section 1 Subdivision for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Verdigris Pass and Windwood Court located
Res. 2022-044 12-5-22     in Coves at Copper Creek - Section 4 Subdivision for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting a right-of-way dedication deed for a
Res. 2023-006 2-6-23      portion of Carroll Road for ownership and
                          maintenance.
                          Accepting Turtle Creek Court located in the Bluffs of
Res. 2023-033 11-20-23    Carroll Creek Subdivision for ownership and
                          maintenance.
                          Accepting Cascata Trail, Pavia Pass, and Monza Pass
Res. 2023-034 11-20-23    located in Cascata Estates Section 2 Subdivision for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Skywalker Pass, Solo Lane, Kylo Court, and
Res. 2023-035 11-20-23    Serene Shores located in Sonora Section 1 Subdivision
                          for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Woodfox Trail, Brimwillow Drive, and Bear
Res. 2023-036 11-20-23    Hollow Court located in Hunters Reserve Section 1
                          Subdivision for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Fett Drive, Din Cove, Pyke Grove Pass, and
Res. 2023-037 11-20-23    Hutt Ridge Court located in Emrich Hills Section 1
                          Subdivision for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Dewolff Lane, Revamp Court, and Marcella
Res. 2023-038 11-20-23    Drive located in Marcella Section 2 Subdivision for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Skywalker Pass and Rey Cove located in
Res. 2024-005 8-19-24     Sonora Section 2 Subdivision for ownership and
                          maintenance.
                          Accepting Cobre Court, Kidd Creek Crossover,
Res. 2024-007 10-20-24    Nightfall Knoll, Olympiada Knoll, and Stone Table
                          Boulevard located in Ridgewood at Copper Creek Sec.
                          II for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Kid Creek Crossover and Andina Trial,
Res. 2024-008 10-28-24    located in The Rapids at Copper Creek Section IV for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Basalt Drive, Feldspar Lane and Peridotite
Res. 2024-009 10-28-24    Cove located in Preserves at the Quarry Section I for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Basalt Drive and Chalk Court Drive located
Res. 2024-010 10-28-24    in Preserves at the Quarry Section II for ownership
                          and maintenance.
                          Accepting Alabaster Cove, Talc Lane, and Basalt Drive
Res. 2024-011 10-28-24    located in Preserves at the Quarry Section III for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Windrow Way and Swather Court located in
Res. 2024-012 10-28-24    Majestic Pointe Subdivision Section 3 for ownership
                          and maintenance.
                          Accepting Ridley Park Way, Gosling Cove, and Seahawk
Res. 2024-013 10-28-24    Lane located in Ridley Park Section II for ownership
                          and maintenance.
                          Accepting Watts Drive and Katfur Court located in
Res. 2024-014 10-28-24    Farmstead at Carroll Creek for ownership and
                          maintenance.
                          Accepting Whittlebury Drive and Towcester Court
Res. 2024-015 10-28-24    located in Silverstone subdivision for ownership and
                          maintenance.
                          Accepting Wattling Path and Silverstone Passage
Res. 2024-016 10-28-24    located in Silverstone Estates for ownership and
                          maintenance.
                          Accepting First Trail, Attila Way, and DeWolff Lane
Res. 2024-017 10-28-24    located in Marcella Section III for ownership and
                          maintenance.
Res. 2024-024 12-16-24    Accepting Keltic Pines Blvd located in The Pines
                          Subdivision for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Hideout Pass, Harleys Run, and Tranquilo
Res. 2024-025 12-16-24    Way located in the Grasslands at Broad Acres for
                          ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Harleys Run, Memory Lane, Mountain Sky Cove
Res. 2024-026 12-16-24    and Patron Pass located in tthe Lakes at Broad Acres
                          for ownership and maintenance.
                          Accepting Broad Fields Cove, Elk Run Place, Rio Azul
Res. 2024-027 12-16-24    Cove and Vista Verde Boulevard located in The Ranch
                          at Broad Acres for ownership and maintenance.
                         
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
18            6-3-68      Annexing territory located at the southeast
                          intersection of State Road No. 3 and Gump Road.
                          Annexing territory located near the northeast
26            10-22-68    intersection of Cedar Canyons Road and Indiana
                          Highway No. 3.
31            6-12-69     Annexing territoy located on north side of Cedar
                          Canyons Road and east of Treatment Plant.
32            11-24-69    Annexing territory located between G.R.&I. Railroad
                          and Lima Road.
34            2-26-70     Amending Ordinance No. 18.
                          Annexing territory located between Lima Road and Penn
41            12-6-71     Central Railroad and contiguous to the town on the
                          north.
                          Annexing territory located on the north side of town,
60            11-6-78     lying between Old Lima Road and Penn Central
                          Railroad.
62            12-4-78     Annexing territory located south of Gump Road and
                          east of Indiana State Highway No. 3.
                          Annexing territory located at the intersection of
64            7-2-79      Shoaff Road and the Penn Central Railroad Tracks and
                          contiguous to the town on the north.
72            9-8-80      Annexing territory being a portion of Gump Road east
                          of State Highway 3.
                          Annexing territory described as part of the east half
94-002        3-7-94      of the Northeast Quarter of Section 19, Township 32
                          North, Range 12 East, in Allen County and including
                          the same in councilmanic district 3.
94-007        10-3-94     Annexing territory known as the Huntertown North Area
                          and including the same in councilmanic district 1.
94-010        12-5-94     Annexing territory known as the Hidden Oaks Place and
                          including the same in councilmanic district 2.
                          Annexing territory known as Huntertown East and
95-008        10-2-95     including portions of the same in councilmanic
                          districts 1 and 2.
95-009        11-6-95     Amending Ord. 95-008 - correcting legal description.
                          Annexing territory known as Brudi stone and gravel
98-001        2-2-98      property and including the same in councilmanic
                          district 1.
                          Annexing part of section 18, section 9, section 20,
                          section 29 and section 30 in Township 32 North, Range
99-007        12-22-99    12 East, Second Principal Meridian, Perry Civil
                          Township, Allen County, and including the same in
                          councilmanic district 3.
                          Annexing part of section 29 and section 30, Township
10-004        10-18-10    32 North, Range 12 East, Second Principal Meridian,
                          Perry Civil Township, Allen County, containing
                          approximately 119.5 acres, more or less.
                          Annexing part of section 9, section 15, section 16,
14-001        6-20-14     section 17, section 20 and section 21 all in T32N,
                          R12E, 2nd P.M., (Perry Civil Township), Allen County,
                          Indiana.
                          Annexing part of section 9, section 15, section 16,
Res. 14-003   3-17-14     section 17, section 20 and section 21 all in T32N,
                          R12E, 2nd P.M. (Perry Civil Township), Allen County,
                          Indiana.
18-003        7-16-18     Annexing 87.3 acres located in section 9, T32N, R12E
                          (Perry Civil Township) - Twin Eagles Annexation Area.
                          Annexing part of the east half of section 8, T32N,
19-008        9-16-19     R12E, 2nd P.M., (Perry Civil Township), Allen County,
                          Indiana.
                          Annexing approximately 336 acres, commonly known as
19-012        12-2-19     the Communities at Talon's Reach and including the
                          same in councilmanic district 3.
                          Annexing part of section 26 and section 35 in T32N,
19-013        12-16-19    R112E, 2nd P.M., Eel River Civil Township, Allen
                          County, Indiana.
2020-002      1-21-20     Annexing 318 acres to be known as the Copper Creek
                          Voluntary Annexation.
20-003        7-6-20      Annexing 87.5 acres to be known as the Fairgrounds
                          Annexation Area.
20-004        7-6-20      Annexing certain territory to be commonly known as
                          the Estates of Twin Eagles Annexation Area.
                          Amending Ord. 19-013 by correcting the date of which
2020-006      1-21-20     the voluntary annexation petition was received to
                          November 4, 2019.
20-009        6-15-20     Annexing certain territory to be known as the Cliffs
                          of Rolling Oaks Voluntary Annexation.
20-010        7-6-20      Annexing certain territory to be known as the Cascata
                          Estates Voluntary Annexation.
Res. 21-031   10-18-21    Adopting the fiscal plan for the Marcella Annexation
                          Area.
21-012        12-6-21     Annexing certain territory to be known as the
                          Marcella Voluntary Annexation.
22-001        2-7-22      Annexing certain territory to be known as the Ridley
                          Park, Section 1 Voluntary Annexation.
Res. 2022-002 2-7-22      Adopting the fiscal plan for the Ridley Park Section
                          1 Annexation Area.
22-003        4-18-22     Annexing certain territory to be known as the
                          Silverstone Voluntary Annexation.
2022-004      4-18-22     Annexing certain territory to be know as the Cascata
                          Estates, Section II Voluntary Annexation.
22-005        4-18-22     Annexing certain territory to be know as the Quarry,
                          Section IV Voluntary Annexation.
Res. 22-007   4-18-22     Adopting the fiscal plan for the Silverstone
                          Voluntary Annexation.
Res. 2022-008 4-18-22     Adopting the fiscal plan for the Cascata Estates,
                          Section II Voluntary Annexation.
Res. 22-009   4-18-22     Adopting the fiscal plan for the Quarry, Section IV
                          Voluntary Annexation.
2022-12       11-7-22     Annexing certain territory to be know as the
                          Northwest Allen County Schools Voluntary Annexation.
2022-13       11-7-22     Annexing certain territory to be know as the
                          Farmstead at Carroll Creek Voluntary Annexation.
2022-14       11-7-22     Annexing certain territory to be know as the Emrich
                          Hills Voluntary Annexation.
2022-15       11-7-22     Annexing certain territory to be know as the Gump
                          Road Voluntary Annexation.
2022-16       11-21-22    Annexing certain territory to be know as the
                          Preserves at the Quarry Voluntary Annexation.
2022-20       12-19-22    Annexing certain territory to be know as the RAML,
                          Inc. Voluntary Annexation.
Res. 2022-028 11-7-22     Adopting the fiscal plan for the Northwest Allen
                          County Schools Voluntary Annexation.
Res. 2022-030 11-7-22     Adopting the fiscal plan for the Emrich Hills
                          Voluntary Annexation.
Res. 2022-031 11-7-22     Adopting the fiscal plan for the Gump Road Voluntary
                          Annexation.
Res. 2022-032 11-21-22    Adopting the fiscal plan for the Preserves at the
                          Quarry Annexation Area.
Res. 2022-046 12-19-22    Adopting the fiscal plan for the RAML, Inc. Voluntary
                          Annexation Area.
2023-003      4-17-23     Annexing certain territory to be known as Shadow
                          Creek Voluntary Annexation.
2023-007      9-5-23      Annexing certain territory to be known as Black/Page
                          Voluntary Annexation.
2023-011      11-6-23     Annexing certain territory to be known as Broad Acres
                          Voluntary Annexation.
2024-012      11-4-24     Annexing certain territory to be known as 17384 Kell
                          Road Voluntary Annexation.
2024-013      11-4-24     Annexing certain territory to be known as the
                          Creekside Crossing Area Voluntary Annexation.
                          Annexing certain territory being part of the SW
2024-016      12-16-24    quarter, section 20, T32N, R11E, 2nd P.M., Eel River
                          Civil Township.
                         
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date   Description
          Passed
44        11-4-  Approving a contract for the purchase of a water system from Ridge Water, Inc.
          74
               Contracting with the County Sheriff's Department for the control of animals
                 within the city.
                 Agreement between the Town Council and the Allen County Redevelopment Commission
Agreement 6-1-98 authorizing the Commission to undertake activities related to the designation of
                 Economic Revitalization Areas.
Res. 00-  11-6-  Approving agreement for water extension and interconnection with Carroll Creek
009       00     Development, Inc.
Res. 00-  11-6-  Approving agreement for sewer extension and interconnection with Carroll Creek
012       00     Development, Inc.
Res. 00-  11-6-  Approving agreement for water extension and interconnection with PT Development
013       00     Corp.
Res. 00-  11-6-  Approving agreement for sewer extension and interconnection with PT Development
014       00     Corp.
Res. 04-  6-7-04 Approving agreement for sewer and water extension, interconnection and
003              reimbursement with Twin Eagles Development, LLC.
Res. 04-  10-18- Approving law enforcement services agreement providing a Community Resource
009       04     Officer through the Allen County Sheriff s office.
Res. 05-         Resolving that the town seeks to continue its long-term relationship with the
002       2-7-05 City of Fort Wayne through the finalization of a new long- term agreement for
                 sanitary sewer service with the city.
Res. 05-  3-7-05 Authorizing a contract with Parrish Excavating, Inc. for the Gump Road sanitary
003              sewer extension.
Res. 05-  12-19- Entering into a contract with Republic Services of Indiana, dba National Serv-
019       05     All, Inc., to provide residential solid waste collection for the town for a
                 five-year term beginning January 1, 2006.
06-002    2-6-06 Entering into a Fire Protection Territory agreement between Perry Township, the
                 Town of Huntertown and Eel River Township.
Res. 06-  5-1-06 Authorizing the formation of a study commission to review local government
009              reorganization.
Res. 06-  6-19-  Approving a contract for water interconnection with the City of Ft. Wayne.
013       06
Res. 08-  10-6-  Adopting Allen County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan as the town s MHMP.
001       08
Ord. 08-  12-1-  Approving contract with David K. Hawk for services as Town Attorney.
012       08
Res. 10-  2-1-10 Approving agreement with Engineering Resources, Inc. for professional
001              engineering services for Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Res. 12-  7-24-  Approving legal services agreement with Plews Shadley Racher & Braun LLP.
012       12
Res. 12-  12-17- Approving contract with DLZ Indiana, LLC for on-call engineering services.
019       12
Res. 12-  12-17- Approving contract with David K. Hawk for services as Town Attorney.
020       12
Res. 13-  3-18-  Approving law enforcement services agreement with Allen County.
002       13
Res. 13-  10-21- Authorizing amendment to residential solid waste contract with Republic Services
010       13     of Indiana LP (dba National Serv All).
Res. 13-  12-16- Accepting the offer to convey the Perpetual Highway Easement, according to its
013       13     terms.
Res. 13-  12-16- Approving contract with David K. Hawk for services as Town Attorney.
014       13
Res. 13-  12-16- Approving service contract with DLZ Indiana, LLC.
015       13
Res. 14-  1-9-14 Approving contract with H.J. Umbaugh and Associates Certified Public
001              Accountants, LLP.
Res. 14-  6-6-14 Approving contract with Robert E. Crosby Construction, Inc. and Crosby
007              Excavating, Inc. for the execution of equalization basin.
Res. 14-  11-17- Authorizing an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.
013       14
Res. 15-  1-5-15 Approving contract with David K. Hawk for services as Town Attorney.
001
Res. 15-  12-7-  Approving water main easement agreements with Wayne and Linda Boyd.
005       15
Res. 15-  11-19- Approving contract with Engineering Resources, Inc. for on-call engineering
006       15     services.
Res. 16-         Approving contract with Engineering Resources, Inc. to provide engineering
002       1-8-16 services to the Utilities Service Board required for the operation of the
                 Huntertown Utilities.
Res. 16-  1-8-16 Approving contract with David K. Hawk to provide legal services to the
003              Huntertown Utilities and the Utilities Service Board.
Res. 16-  1-18-  Approving contract with David K. Hawk for services as Town Attorney.
004       16
Res. 16-  4-2-16 Authorizing award of contract to Geiger Excavating, Inc. for construction of the
009              effluent force main for the Huntertown Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Res. 16-  12-5-  Authorizing execution of residential solid waste collection contract with
015       16     Republic Services of Indiana, LP, for a three year term.
Res. 16-  12-19- Approving contract with Engineering Resources, Inc. to provide on-call
017       16     engineering services.
Res. 16-  12-19- Approving contract with David K. Hawk for services as Town Attorney.
018       16
Res. 17-         Approving a professional services agreement with Retha Hicks for consulting, and
003       2-6-17 assistance with financial duties and reporting requirements of the Clerk-
                 Treasurer for 2017.
Res. 17-  3-20-  Approving an agreement with Stephen M. Carter, CPA of Carter Dillon Umbaugh,
006       17     LLC, for consulting and assistance with financial duties and reporting
                 requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer for 2017.
Res. 17-  7-17-  Approving New Venture Development Corp. to install a sewer line for The Cottages
015       17     of Verano subdivision.
Res. 17-  12-4-  Approving contract with David K. Hawk for services as Town Attorney.
017       17
Res. 19-  1-7-19 Approving contract with David K. Hawk for services as Town Attorney.
003
Res. 19-  1-7-19 Approving contract with Engineering Resources, Inc. to provide on-call
004           engineering services.
Res. 19-  5-20-  Approving agreement for sewer and water    service extension for Rolling Oaks
006       19     Development, LLC
Res. 19-  4-1-19 Approving agreement for water and sewer service connections to be made at 1714
009              Hathaway Road.
Res. 19-  9-3-19 Approving agreement for sewer and water    service extension for Cliffs of
017              Rolling Oaks.
Res. 19-  11-4-  Approving agreement for water and sewer service connections to be made at 11921
019    19     Hand Road.
Res. 19-  12-16- Authorizing execution of residential solid waste collection contract with
023       19     Republic Services of Indiana, LP, for a three-year term.
Res.      1-6-20 Approving agreement for the services of a Town Attorney for the calendar years
2020-003         2020 through 2022.
Res.      1-6-20 Approving agreement for on-call engineering services during the calendar years
2020-004         2020 through 2022.
Res.      1-4-21 Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to 935 W. Gump Road.
2021-001
Res.      4-5-21 Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to 1004 Hathaway Road.
2021-010
Res.      4-5-21 Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to 13731 Dunton Road.
2021-011
Res.      8-16-  Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to The Preserves at the Quarry
2021-019  21     Sections I and II.
Res.      8-16-  Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to Ridley Park.
2021-020  21
Res.      9-7-21 Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to 2530 W. Shoaff Road.
2021-021
Res.      9-7-21 Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to 1003 and 1005 Gump Road.
2021-022
Res.      10-4-  Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to 15114 Dunton Road.
2021-028  21
Res.      11-1-  Accepting a grant of utility easement for the Byron Lift Station property.
2021-033  21
Res.      11-1-  Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to 1586 Hathaway Road.
2021-034  21
Res.      2-7-22 Authorizing extension of water and sewer services to two homes on Dunton Road.
2022-004
Res.      3-7-22 Authorizing extension of water and sewer services to 46 residential homes in
2022-006         Cascata Estates Section II Subdivision.
Res.      6-6-22 Authorizing extension of water and sewer services for 736 residential homes in
2022-012         the Fens Subdivision.
Res.      6-6-22 Authorizing extension of water and sewer services for 716 residential homes in
2022-013         Broad Acres Subdivision.
Res.      6-6-22 Authorizing extension of water and sewer services for 61 residential homes in
2022-014         Farmstead Subdivision.
Res.      7-18-  Authorizing extension of water and sewer services to 116 residential homes in
2022-020  22     Cascata Estates Section II and Emrich Hills/Cascata Estates Section III
                 Subdivisions.
Res.      8-1-22 Authorizing extension of water and sewer services to 55 residential homes in
2022-022         Shadow Creek Subdivision.
Res.      8-15-  Approving interlocal agreement for the Poka-Bache Connector Trail.
2022-024  22
Res.      8-15-  Approving purchase option agreement for 15607 Lima Road.
2022-025  22
Res.      8-15-  Approving purchase of water line easement and grant of right-of- way on the
2022-026  22     north side of Woods Road.
Res.      12-19- Authorizing Council President to execute INDOT agreements.
2022-045  22
Res.      3-20-  Authorizing extension of water and sanitary sewer services to a new residential
2023-010  23     home at 17429 Lima Road.
2023-004  4-17-  Withdrawing from the Perry Township/Eel River Township/Huntertown Fire
          23     Protection Territory.
Res.      5-1-23 Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to a single-family residence at
2023-016         735 W. Gump Road.
Res.      6-5-23 Approving purchase agreement for 15607 Lima Road.
2023-018
Res.      6-5-23 Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to a new residential home at
2023-019         390 W. Shoaff Road.
Res.      7-17-  Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to a 125-lot subdivision plat
2023-020  23     to be known as Creekside Crossing.
Res.      7-17-  Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to a residential home at 15137
2023-021  23     Dunton Road.
Res.      8-7-23 Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to the Broad Acres Subdivision,
2023-022         specifically the Ranch , Grasslands Section 1", Lakes , and Fields plats.
2023-008  8-7-23 Adopting interlocal agreement with the Northwest Allen County Fire Protection
                 District.
Res.      10-2-  Authorizing extension of water and sewer service to a residential home located
2023-026  23     at 1224 Shoaff Road.
Res.      10-16- Approving purchase agreement for 23.95 acres of the Douglas R. and Martha M.
2023-029  23     Price Revocable Trust real estate.
Res.      11-20- Approving purchase agreement for 2123 Trinity Street.
2023-032  23
Res.      12-4-  Approving purchase agreement for a parcel of land at the northeast corner of
2023-039  23     Gump Road and State Road 3.
Res.      12-18- Approving acquisition of the utility and drainage easement for Pathway Community
2023-040  23     Church, Inc.
Res.      12-18- Approving purchase agreement for a parcel of land at 4704 W. Carroll Road.
2023-041  23
                
 
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
                        Granting of a franchise agreement or contract with
77          9-13-82     Citizens Cable Communications, Inc., for a coaxial
                        cable in the town.
                        Changing ownership of Citizens Cable Communications,
                        Inc. ("Citizens") to Comcast Corporation ("Comcast")
Res. 86-002 2-3-86      and authorizing the subsequent transfer of the
                        franchise awarded to Citizens to Comcast Cablevision of
                        Indiana Limited Partnership, which is a limited
                        partnership affiliated with and managed by Comcast.
98-012      12-7-98     Approving a franchise agreement and contract for cable
                        system with Comcast Cablevision of Fort Wayne.
                       
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
52       4-5-76      Vacating the portion of Walnut Street located directly
                     behind Huntertown School.
07-005   7-2-07      Vacating a portion of Almon Street.
                     Vacating a portion of a platted utility and surface
2022-009 8-18-22     drainage easement on the west side of Lot 11 of Twin
                     Eagles Section 1.
                     Vacating a portion of a platted utility and surface
2022-018 11-7-22     drainage easement on the east side of Lot 89 of Willow
                     Ridge, Section II.
                    
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezoning real estate being part of the southeast quarter
39       5-3-71      of the southwest quarter of section 17, township 32 north,
                     range 12 east, to RS-2 District.
Res. 55  3-7-77      Reclassifying lot 5 in the west 15 feet of lot 4 of Myers
                     First Addition to C-1A.
                     Rezoning territory being part of the southwest quarter of
1        5-4-81      the northwest quarter of section 17, township 32 north,
                     range 12 east from RS-1 to C-1A.
5        7-6-82      Rezoning certain territory from C-3 and RS-1 to RS-3.
11       6-4-84      Rezoning lot 46 in Hunter Park Addition, section II from
                     RS-1 to C-1A.
13       10-7-85     Reclassifying real estate to RS-3.
14       12-2-85     Rezoning territory from RS-1 to RS-2.
                     Reclassifying territory beginning at the southeast corner
15       5-5-87      of a lot in town 32 north, range 12 east, sections 18 &
                     17, from RS-1 to RSP-2.
17       12-6-88     Reclassifying certain territory to RSP-3 at a density of
                     ten units per acre.
39       4-9-07      Reclassifying territories to C-2A and to C-3(P).
12-022   2-6-12      Reclassifying real estate to RSP-2 at a density of eight
                     units per acre.
16-006   6-20-16     Reclassifying one acre of real estate to R3.
16-008   8-1-16      Reclassifying 1.4 acres of real estate to C-3(P).
16-013   11-7-16     Reclassifying 13.928 acres of real estate to RSP-1.
17-001   5-1-17      Reclassifying 51.9 acres of real estate to R1.
17-006   10-16-17    Reclassifying 11 acres of real estate to C3.
18-007   9-4-18      Reclassifying 7.0+ acres of real estate to R2.
18-009   11-7-18     Reclassifying 3.2 acres of real estate to R3.
2020-005 1-21-20     Reclassifying 7.85 acres of real estate to C3.
2021-005 4-5-21      Reclassifying .41 acres of real estate to R1.
2021-006 4-5-21      Reclassifying .96 acres of real estate to I2.
2021-010 8-19-21     Reclassifying 1.55 acres of real estate to R1.
2021-014 12-20-21    Reclassifying 34.4 acres of real estate to NC.
2021-015 12-20-21    Reclassifying 37 acres of real estate to R1.
2022-006 7-5-22      Reclassifying 164.4 acres of real estate to R1.
2023-002 1-17-23     Reclassifying 17.7 acres of real estate to R2.
2023-010 10-2-23     Reclassifying 14.42 acres of real estate to NC.
2024-002 1-8-24      Reclassifying 28.06 acres of real estate to R1/Single
                     Family Residential.
                    
 
TABLE VII: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date     Description
No.   Passed
Res.           Declaring Lots 30 and 31 in W.T. Hunters First Addition as Economic
98-   6-1-98   Revitalization Area No. H8.
003
Res.           Declaring industrial area designated economic revitalization area no. H-
04-   4-5-04   10, application of AITF services.
001
Res.           Confirming application of AITF services for the designation of
04-   4-19-04  revitalization area no. H-10.
002
Res.
12-   2-6-12   Declaring certain real estate as economic revitalization area no. H-12.
002-A
Res.           Confirming application of Parco Inc. for the designation of economic
12-   2-21-12  revitalization area no. H-12.
005
Res.
12-   3-5-12   Declaring certain real estate as economic revitalization area no. H-13.
006
Res.           Confirming application of Precision Laser Services, Inc. for the
12-   3-19-12  designation of economic revitalization area no. H-13.
006-A
Res.
13-   9-3-13   Declaring certain real estate as economic revitalization area no. H-14.
007
Res.           Confirming application of AITF Services, LLC for the designation of
13-   9-16-13  economic revitalization area no H-14.
008
Res.
14-   - -      Declaring certain real estate as economic revitalization area no. H-15.
011
Res.
14-   9-9-14   Declaring certain real estate as economic revitalization area no. H-15.
012
Res.           Declaring application of Precision Laser Services, Inc. for the
16-   7-5-16   designation of economic revitalization area no. H-15.
013
Res.  7-18-16  Confirming application of Precision Laser Services, Inc. for the
014            designation of economic revitalization area no. H-15.
Res.           Declaring application of O’Neal Excavating & Construction Inc. for the
17-   4-17-17  designation of economic revitalization area no. H-16.
008
Res.           Confirming application of O’Neal Excavating & Construction Inc. for the
17-   5-1-17   designation of economic revitalization area no. H-16.
010A
Res.           Designation of economic revitalization area no, H-17: RMI Properties,
18-   12-17-18 LLC/Riverside Mfg., LLC.
017
Res.           Confirming application of RMI Properties, LLC/Riverside MFG, LLC for the
19-   1-7-19   designation of economic revitalization area no. H-17.
001
Res.           Approving 2020 pay 2021 real and personal property compliance with
2020- 7-6-20   statement of benefits (CF-1) forms.
019
Res.           Declaring the application of AITF Services, LLC/Adaptive Technologies,
2020- 9-8-20   Inc. for designation of economic revitalization area no. H-18.
023
Res.           Confirming the application of AITF Services, LLC/Adaptive Technologies,
2020- 9-21-20  Inc. for designation of economic revitalization area no. H-18.
024
Res.           Approving 2021 pay 2022 real and personal property compliance with
2021- 6-7-21   statement of benefits (CF-1) forms.
17
Res.           Declaring the application of Riverside MFG, LLC/RMI Properties, LLC for
2022- 5-2-22   designation of economic revitalization area no. H-19.
010
Res.           Confirming the application of RMI Properties, LLC/Riverside MFG, LLC for
2022- 6-6-22   designation of economic revitalization area no. H-19.
011
Res.  6-6-     Approving 2022 pay 2023 real and personal property compliance with
2022- 22    statement of benefits (CF-1) forms.
016
Res.           Determining substantial compliance for AITF Services LLC/Adaptive
2022- 6-6-22   Technologies, INC regarding Res. 2020-024 deduction/abatement.
018
              
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                Code Section
1-1-1-8(a)                10.09
1-1-4-1                   10.05
1-1-4-5                   10.04
1-1-116                   50.25
3-10-7-2.7                30.02
4-33-13-5(d)(2)           32.06
5-3-1                     152.20 ,
                          152.24
5-11-10-1.6               32.16,
                          32.18
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.        30.03
5-14-3                    33.05
5-22-2-26                 33.06
5-22-2-38                 33.06
5-22-7-2                  33.06
5-22-10-10                33.06
6-1.1-12.1 et seq.     152.20
6-1.1-12.1-1(1)           152.20
6-1.1-12.1-1(19)          152.20
6-1.1-12.1-2              152.21,
                          152.23
6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c)         152.20,
                          152.24
6-1.1-12.1-2.5(d)         152.20
6-1.1-12. 1-2.5 (e)       152.20
6-1.1-12.1-3              152.23
6-1.1-12.1-3(e)           152.20
6-1.1-12.1-4.5            152.23
6-1.1-12.1-4.8            152.23
                          152.20,
6-1.1-12.1-5              152.23,
                          152.24
6-1.1-12.1-5.1            152.22
6-1.1-12.1-5.3            152.23,
                          152.24
                          152.20,
6-1.1-12.1-5.4            152.23,
                          152.24
6-1.1-12.1-5.6            152.22
6-1.1-12.1-5.9            152.22
6-1.1-12.1-5.9(c)         152.22
6-1.1-12.1-9.5            152.23
6-1.1-12.1-11.3           152.21,
                          152.23
6-1.1-12.1-12             152.22
6-1.1-12.1-18(e)          152.20
6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A)       32.09
7.1-3-9                   110.01
8-1-2.2                   32.07
8-1.5-3-4                 54.01
8-1.5-3-9.1               51.22
9-13-2                    71.01
9-21-5-2                  71.05
9-21-9-4                  71.06
9-25-4-1 et seq.          71.06
10-14-3-12                30.03
10-14-3-29                30.03
13-1-4-1 (Repealed)       50.02
16-41-27-4                53.01
22-9-1-4 et seq.          95.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.          95.01
22-9.5-2-2                95.02
22-9.5-2-3                95.02
22-9.5-2-4                95.02
22-9.5-2-8                95.02
22-9.5-2-9                95.02
22-9.5-2-10 (Repealed)    95.02
22-9.5-2-10(b) (Repealed) 95.02
22-9.5-2-10(c) (Repealed) 95.02
22-9.5-2-11               95.02
22-9.5-2-13               95.02
22-9.5-3                  95.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.          95.09
22-9.5-4-8                95.10
22-9.5-5                  95.02
22-9.5-5-1                95.03
22-9.5-6                  95.02,
                          95.10
22-11-14-10.5             93.03
22-15-2-7                 150.41
33-36-2-3                 31.41
33-36-3-5                 31.43
32-1-6-2(a)               154.002
34-4-32-1 (Repealed)      50.07
34-4-32-4(c) (Repealed)   70.99
34-28-5                   94.99
36-1-7-12                 33.06
36-1-20.2                 31.03
36-1-21                   31.03
36-5-2-2                  30.04
36-5-2-4.2                30.02
36-5-2-7                  30.04
36-5-2-13                 31.03
36-7-4-500                152.03
36-7-8-3                  150.41
36-7-8-7                  150.41
36-7-10.1-1 - 36-7-10.1-4 91.24
36-8-19-8.5               32.05
36-9-16-3                 32.01
36-9-23-29(d)             50.51
36-9-23-31 - 36-9-23-34   50.04,
                          50.85
36-9-23-32                50.73,
                          50.85
36-9-23-33                50.73,
                          50.85
36-9-23-34                50.74,
                          50.85
                          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
40       2-5-73      T.S.O. I
41       6-4-73      T.S.O. I
53       6-7-76      31.30,
                     31.31
55       3-7-77      T.S.O. VI
84-004   9-4-84      91.24
85-002   2-4-85      31.16
85-003   2-4-85      31.15
85-004   2-4-85      91.24
85-008   2-4-85      31.17
86-002   2-3-86      T.S.O. IV
94-001   3-7-94      T.S.O. I
98-003   6-1-98      T.S.O. VII
00-009   11-6-00     T.S.O. III
00-012   11-6-00     T.S.O. III
00-013   11-6-00     T.S.O. III
00-014   11-6-00     T.S.O. III
04-001   4-5-04      T.S.O. VII
04-002   4-19-04     T.S.O. VII
04-003   6-7-04      T.S.O. III
04-009   10-18-04    T.S.O. III
05-002   2-7-05      T.S.O. III
05-003   3-7-05      T.S.O. III
05-010   8-1-05      91.24
05-019   12-19-05    T.S.O. III
06-002   1-16-06     150.16
06-005   2-6-06      32.04
06-008   3-25-06     T.S.O. I
06-009   5-1-06      T.S.O. III
06-013   6-19-06     T.S.O. III
08-001   10-6-08     T.S.O. III
08-002   9-15-08     152.50
10-001   2-1-10      T.S.O. III
11-005   6-6-11      31.04
11-006   6-6-11      32.06
12-002-A 2-6-12      T.S.O. VII
12-003   2-6-12      33.01
12-004   2-6-12      33.02
12-005   2-21-12     T.S.O. VII
12-006   3-5-12      T.S.O. VII
12-006-A 3-19-12     T.S.O. VII
12-008   6-18-12     31.03
12-019   12-17-12    T.S.O. III
12-020   12-17-12    T.S.O. III
12-021   12-17-12    T.S.O. I
13-002   3-18-13     T.S.O. III
13-007   9-3-13      T.S.O. VII
13-008   9-16-13     T.S.O. VII
13-009   10-21-13    54.02
13-010   10-21-13    T.S.O. III
13-013   12-16-13    T.S.O. III
13-014   12-16-13    T.S.O. III
13-015   12-16-13    T.S.O. III
14-001   1-9-14      T.S.O. III
14-003   3-17-14     T.S.O. II
14-007   6-16-14     T.S.O. III
14-009   7-7-14      51.50
14-011   - -         T.S.O. VII
14-012   9-9-14      T.S.O. VII
14-013   11-17-14    T.S.O. III
15-001   1-5-15      T.S.O. III
15-003   2-17-15     33.02
15-005   12-7-15     T.S.O. III
15-006   11-19-15    T.S.O. III
16-002   1-8-16      T.S.O. III
16-003   1-8-16      T.S.O. III
16-004   1-18-16     T.S.O. III
16-009   4-2-16      T.S.O. III
16-013   7-5-16      T.S.O. VII
014      7-18-16     T.S.O. VII
16-015   12-5-16     T.S.O. III
16-017   12-19-16    T.S.O. III
16-018   12-19-16    T.S.O. III
17-001   1-3-17      152.50
17-003   2-6-17      T.S.O. III
17-004   2-6-17      33.05
17-006   3-20-17     T.S.O. III
17-008   4-17-17     T.S.O. VII
17-010A  5-1-17      T.S.O. VII
17-011   5-1-17      92.05
17-013   6-5-17      54.03
17-015   7-17-17     T.S.O. III
17-017   12-4-17     T.S.O. III
18-003   5-7-18   33.06
18-007   9-4-18   31.04
18-017   12-17-18    T.S.O. VII
19-001   1-7-19      T.S.O. VII
19-003   1-7-19      T.S.O. III
19-004   1-7-19   T.S.O. III
19-006   5-20-19     T.S.O. III
19-007   1-22-19     T.S.O. I
19-009   4-1-19      T.S.O. III
19-011   6-3-19      T.S.O. I
19-013   6-3-19   152.20 -
                     152.24
19-017   9-3-19   T.S.O. III
19-019   11-4-19     T.S.O. III
19-020   11-4-19     T.S.O. I
19-021   11-4-19     T.S.O. I
19-023   12-16-19    T.S.O. III
2020-001 1-6-20      T.S.O. I
2020-002 1-6-20      T.S.O. I
2020-003 1-6-20      T.S.O. III
2020-004 1-6-20      T.S.O. III
2020-005 1-6-20      T.S.O. I
2020-012 2-3-20      T.S.O. I
2020-018 7-6-20      152.20 -
                     152.24
2020-019 7-6-20      T.S.O. VII
2020-21  8-17-20     T.S.O. I
2020-22  8-17-20     T.S.O. I
2020-023 9-8-20      T.S.O. VII
2020-024 9-21-20     T.S.O. VII
2020-025 9-21-20     152.20 -
                     152.24
2020-26  9-21-20     T.S.O. I
2020-27  11-16-20    T.S.O. I
2020-28  12-7-20     T.S.O. I
2020-029 12-7-20     T.S.O. I
2020-030 12-7-20     T.S.O. I
2020-031 12-7-20     T.S.O. I
2020-032 12-21-20    T.S.O. I
2021-001 1-4-21      T.S.O. III
2021-003 2-1-21      T.S.O. I
2021-004 2-1-21      T.S.O. I
2021-009 3-22-21     T.S.O. I
2021-010 4-5-21      T.S.O. III
2021-011 4-5-21      T.S.O. III
2021-012 4-19-21     T.S.O. I
2021-015 5-26-21     30.03
2021-16  6-7-21      T.S.O. I
2021-17  6-7-21      T.S.O. VII
2021-18  6-21-21     T.S.O. I
2021-019 8-16-21     T.S.O. III
2021-020 8-16-21     T.S.O. III
2021-021 9-7-21      T.S.O. III
2021-022 9-7-21      T.S.O. III
2021-025 10-4-21     T.S.O. I
2021-026 10-4-21     T.S.O. I
2021-027 10-4-21     T.S.O. I
2021-028 10-4-21     T.S.O. III
2021-031 10-18-21    T.S.O. II
2021-033 11-1-21     T.S.O. III
2021-034 11-1-21     T.S.O. III
2021-035 11-1-21     T.S.O. I
2021-036 11-15-21    T.S.O. I
2021-037 11-15-21    T.S.O. I
2022-002 2-7-22      T.S.O. II
2022-004 2-7-22      T.S.O. III
2022-005 2-22-22     T.S.O. I
2022-006 3-7-22      T.S.O. III
2022-007 4-18-22     T.S.O. II
2022-008 4-18-22     T.S.O. II
22-009   4-18-22     T.S.O. II
2022-010 5-2-22      T.S.O. VII
2022-011 6-6-22      T.S.O. VII
2022-012 6-6-22      T.S.O. III
2022-013 6-6-22      T.S.O. III
2022-014 6-6-22      T.S.O. III
2022-016 6-6-22      T.S.O. VII
2022-017 6-20-22     T.S.O. I
2022-018 6-6-22      T.S.O. VII
2022-020 7-18-22     T.S.O. III
2022-022 8-1-22      T.S.O. III
2022-024 8-15-22     T.S.O. III
2022-025 8-15-22     T.S.O. III
2022-026 8-15-22     T.S.O. III
2022-028 11-7-22     T.S.O. II
2022-029 11-7-22     T.S.O. II
2022-030 11-7-22     T.S.O. II
2022-031 11-7-22     T.S.O. II
2022-032 11-21-22    T.S.O. II
22-033   10-17-22    T.S.O. I
2022-036 12-5-22     T.S.O. I
2022-037 12-5-22     T.S.O. I
2022-038 12-5-22     T.S.O. I
2022-039 12-5-22     T.S.O. I
2022-040 12-5-22     T.S.O. I
2022-041 12-5-22     T.S.O. I
2022-042 12-5-22     T.S.O. I
2022-043 12-5-22     T.S.O. I
2022-044 12-5-22     T.S.O. I
2022-045 12-19-22    T.S.O. III
2022-046 12-19-22    T.S.O. II
2023-006 2-6-23      T.S.O. I
2023-010 3-20-23     T.S.O. III
2023-016 5-1-23      T.S.O. III
2023-018 6-5-23      T.S.O. III
2023-019 6-5-23      T.S.O. III
2023-020 7-17-23     T.S.O. III
2023-021 7-17-23     T.S.O. III
2023-022 8-7-23      T.S.O. III
2023-026 10-2-23     T.S.O. III
2023-029 10-16-23    T.S.O. III
2023-032 11-20-23    T.S.O. III
2023-033 11-20-23    T.S.O. I
2023-034 11-20-23    T.S.O. I
2023-035 11-20-23    T.S.O. I
2023-036 11-20-23    T.S.O. I
2023-037 11-20-23    T.S.O. I
2023-038 11-20-23    T.S.O. I
2023-039 12-4-23     T.S.O. III
2023-040 12-18-23    T.S.O. III
2023-041 12-18-23    T.S.O. III
2024-005 8-19-24     T.S.O. I
2024-007 10-20-24    T.S.O. I
2024-008 10-28-24    T.S.O. I
2024-009 10-28-24    T.S.O. I
2024-010 10-28-24    T.S.O. I
2024-011 10-28-24    T.S.O. I
2024-012 10-28-24    T.S.O. I
2024-013 10-28-23    T.S.O. I
2024-014 10-28-24    T.S.O. I
2024-015 10-28-24    T.S.O. I
2024-016 10-28-24    T.S.O. I
2024-017 10-28-24    T.S.O. I
2024-024 12-16-24    T.S.O. I 
2024-025 12-16-24    T.S.O. I
2024-026 12-16-24    T.S.O. I
2024-027 12-16-24    T.S.O. I
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
1         5-4-81      T.S.O. VI
5         7-6-82      T.S.O. VI
11        6-4-84      T.S.O. VI
13        10-7-85     T.S.O. VI
14        12-2-85     T.S.O. VI
15        5-5-87      T.S.O. VI
17        12-6-88     T.S.O. VI
18        6-3-68      T.S.O. II
19        6-3-68      91.20 -
                      91.23
26        10-22-68    T.S.O. II
31        6-12-69     T.S.O. II
32        11-24-69    T.S.O. II
33        - - 70      152.40 -
                      152.43
34        2-26-70     T.S.O. II
35        5-21-70     91.01,
                      91.99
39        5-3-71      T.S.O. VI
40        10-5-71     91.02,
                      91.99
41        12-6-71     T.S.O. II
44        11-4-74     T.S.O. III
46        1-7-75      51.50 -
                      51.56
46A       12-1-75     51.51
                      51.01 -
                      51.14,
                      51.16 -
47        1-7-75      51.21,
                      51.35,
                      51.37 -
                      51.40
49        2-3-75      51.15,
                      51.36
50        9-2-75      70.02,
                      70.99
51        11-3-75     30.01
52        4-5-76      T.S.O. V
                      111.01,
58        4-10-78     111.02,
                      111.99
60        11-6-78     T.S.O. II
62        12-4-78     T.S.O. II
64        7-2-79      T.S.O. II
66        10-1-79     T.S.O. I
68        1-7-80      T.S.O. I
72        9-8-80      T.S.O. II
77        9-13-82     T.S.O. IV
                      150.01,
80        4-4-83      150.15,
                      150.40,
                      151.01
81        7-11-83     92.01 -
                      92.03
84-005    5-10-84     31.01
84-006    5-10-84     51.51
84-008    7-2-84      51.50
85-004    2-4-85      31.01
85-005    4-1-85      110.01
85-007    8-5-85      32.01
87-004    6-2-87      70.01,
                      70.99
                      150.25 -
87-007    9-1-87      150.30,
                      150.99
87-009    11-9-87     50.50 -
                      50.55
88-003    3-1-88      150.41
                      50.01 -
                      50.10,
                      50.20 -
                      50.26,
                      50.30 -
                      50.36,
                      50.40 -
88-008    10-4-88     50.43,
                      50.60 -
                      50.63,
                      50.65 -
                      50.68,
                      50.70 -
                      50.75,
                      50.99,
                      51.50
10-4-88   50.80 -
          50.94
89-005    8-1-89      130.01
89-009    10-10-89    51.22
93-006    7-6-93      51.36(D)
93-008    9-27-93     51.50(C), (D)
94-002    3-7-94      T.S.O. II
94-007    10-3-94     T.S.O. II
94-010    12-5-94     T.S.O. II
95-004    8-7-95      32.02
95-008    10-2-95     T.S.O. II
95-009    11-6-95     T.S.O. II
96-005    7-15-96     32.01
97-004    4-7-97      51.50(C)
98-001    2-2-98      T.S.O. II
Agreement 6-1-98      T.S.O. III
98-012    12-7-98     T.S.O. IV
98-013    12-7-98     70.03,
                      70.99
99-007    12-22-99    T.S.O. II
00-002    3-6-00      51.50(C), (D)
00-004    3-6-00      31.01
01-001    3-5-01      50.11,
                      50.51
02-001    5-20-02     53.03
                      53.01 -
02-002    5-20-02     53.07,
                      53.99
02-006    10-7-02     30.02
02-007    10-7-02     31.02
04-002    4-19-04     93.99
04-004    4-19-04     32.03
04-005    4-19-04     31.01
04-008    11-22-04    30.02
                      51.10,
05-006    6-6-05      51.21,
                      51.35
                      71.01 -
                      71.05,
05-014    11-21-05    71.99,
                      Ch. 72, Scheds. I -
                      VI
05-015    12-5-05     51.50 -
                      51.56
05-016    12-5-05     51.35
05-017    12-19-05    53.03
06-002    2-6-06      T.S.O. III
06-006    3-25-06     51.18
                      70.99,
06-007    3-25-06     Ch. 73, Scheds. I,
                      II
06-008    3-25-06     51.51
                      94.01 -
06-011    9-5-06      94.03,
                      94.99
06-013    10-16-06    51.50
39        4-9-07      T.S.O. VI
07-005    7-2-07      T.S.O. V
08-003    5-5-08      52.01,
                      52.02
08-005    7-21-08     31.01
                      91.30 -
08-009    11-17-08    91.32,
                      91.99
08-010    11-17-08    70.04,
                      70.99
08-011    11-17-08    31.40 -
                      31.43
08-012    12-1-08     T.S.O. III
09-003    6-15-09     51.50
09-005    8-3-09      91.20 -
                      91.28
09-009    2-1-10      71.06
10-002A   6-7-10      51.23
10-004    10-18-10    T.S.O. II
10-007    11-15-10    53.03
11-05     6-20-11     50.56,
                      50.99
11-06     6-20-11     51.50,
                      51.99
11-007    8-1-11      92.04
11-08     10-3-11     51.53
11-009    11-7-11     95.01 -
                      95.10
11-10     11-21-11    92.04
12-001    1-16-12     Ch. 72, Sched. III
12-004    3-19-12     Ch. 72, Sched. III
12-006    6-18-12     32.05
12-007    6-18-12     33.03
12-008    7-2-12      130.02
12-009    8-6-12      Ch. 73, Sched. I
12-011    1-7-13      50.51
12-013    12-20-12    54.01
12-022    2-6-12      T.S.O. VI
13-002    7-1-13      32.07
13-004    10-7-13     51.24
13-005    10-21-13    53.03
13-006    10-21-13    50.12,
                      50.99
13-008    11-18-13    51.24,
                      51.99
14-001    6-20-14     T.S.O. II
14-004    4-21-14     50.51
14-007    9-15-14     53.03
14-009    10-20-14    Ch. 72, Sched. VII
                      51.65 -
14-011    11-5-14     51.76,
                      51.99
14-013    12-22-14    54.01
14-014    12-15-14    32.08
15-001    5-29-15     50.12
15-002    5-29-15     51.24
15-005    11-2-15     53.03
15-006    11-19-15    50.51
16-002    -- -- 16    51.24
16-003    5-11-16     50.12
16-004    6-6-16      32.09
16-5      6-6-16      33.04
16-006    6-20-16     T.S.O. VI
16-007    8-1-16      Ch. 72, Sched. III
16-008    8-1-16      T.S.O. VI
16-012    10-3-16     91.20-
                      91.28
16-013    11-7-16     T.S.O. VI
                      152.01 -
                      152.04,
16-015    12-5-16     152.30 -
                      152.32,
                      154.01
16-017    12-5-16     53.03
17-001    5-1-17      T.S.O. VI
17-002    6-19-17     Ch. 73, Sched. I
17-03     8-21-17     90.01,
                      90.99
17-006    10-16-17    T.S.O. VI
18-003    7-16-18     T.S.O. II
18-005    8-6-18      70.04,
                      70.99
18-006    9-4-18      71.06,
                      71.99
18-007    9-4-18      T.S.O. VI
18-009    11-7-18     T.S.O. VI
19-001    2-25-19     Ch. 72, Sched. III
19-002    5-6-19      53.08,
                      53.99
19-004    6-3-19      152.44
19-005    7-1-19      Ch. 72, Scheds. I,
                      IV
19-008    9-16-19     T.S.O. II
19-010    11-4-19     32.10
19-011    12-16-19    53.03
19-012    12-2-19     T.S.O. II
19-013    12-16-19    T.S.O. II
2020-001  1-21-20     32.11
2020-002  1-21-20     T.S.O. II
20-003    7-6-20      T.S.O. II
20-004    7-6-20      T.S.O. II
2020-005  1-21-20     T.S.O. VI
2020-006  1-21-20     T.S.O. II
2020-008  4-6-20      93.98
20-009    6-15-20     T.S.O. II
20-010    7-6-20      T.S.O. II
                      93.01 -
20-011    7-6-20      93.03,
                      93.99
2020-012  9-8-20      71.06
2020-013  10-5-20     32.12
2020-16   -- -- --    32.13
2020-17   12-21-20    32.13
21-001    2- -21      50.51
21-002    2-16-21     50.51
2021-004  4-5-21      32.14
2021-005  4-5-21      T.S.O. VI
2021-006  4-5-21      T.S.O. VI
2021-008  6-7-21      32.15
2021-009  8-16-21     50.51
2021-010  8-19-21     T.S.O. VI
21-012    12-6-21     T.S.O. II
2021-014  12-20-21    T.S.O. VI
2021-015  12-20-21    T.S.O. VI
22-001    2-7-22      T.S.O. II
2022-002  3-21-22     Ch. 73, Sched. I
22-003    4-18-22     T.S.O. II
2022-004  4-18-22     T.S.O. II
22-005    4-18-22     T.S.O. II
2022-006  7-5-22      T.S.O. VI
2022-007  6-20-22     51.50
2022-009  8-18-22     T.S.O. V
2022-12   11-7-22     T.S.O. II
2022-13   11-7-22     T.S.O. II
2022-14   11-7-22     T.S.O. II
2022-15   11-7-22     T.S.O. II
2022-16   11-21-22    T.S.O. II
2022-017  10-17-22    32.16
2022-018  11-7-22     T.S.O. V
2022-019  12-5-22     53.03
2022-020  12-19-22    T.S.O. II
2022-021  12-19-22    30.04
2023-001  1-3-23      32.17
2023-002  1-17-23     T.S.O. VI
2023-003  4-17-23     T.S.O. II
2023-004  4-17-23     T.S.O. III
2023-007  9-5-23      T.S.O. II
2023-008  8-7-23      T.S.O. III
2023-010  10-2-23     T.S.O. VI
2023-011  11-6-23     T.S.O. II
2024-002  1-8-24      T.S.O. VI
2024-003  2-20-24     32.18
24-004    3-18-24     51.50
24-005    4-1-24      51.50
2024-006  5-6-24      Ch. 72, Sched. IV
2024-007  6-17-24     50.51
2024-008  6-17-24     Ch. 72, Sched. VI
24-009    7-1-24      93.04
24-010    9-5-24      Ch. 73, Sched. I
2024-012  11-4-24     T.S.O. II
2024-013  11-4-24     T.S.O. II
2024-016  12-16-24    T.S.O. II
                     
 
 
