INGALLS, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. - -, passed 12-20-2021;
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2022 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 2
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Ingalls Town
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Ingalls, Indiana.
      COUNTY. Madison County.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
33.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
34.   FEES, FUNDS AND FINANCE
      
35.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
36.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Name designations
   
30.02   Ingalls Day
§ 30.01 NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   Whenever any ordinances or resolution of the Council refers to any board,
bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is incorrectly
stated, or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or subsequent
thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that entity are
or were transferred to a different entity, then such named board, bureau,
commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in said ordinance at its effective
date or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which such
duties, liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(1983 Code, § 1-1-6-1)
Statutory reference:
   Interpretation of name designations, see I.C. 1-1-6-1
§ 30.02 INGALLS DAY.
   The Council designates April 7 as “Ingalls Day”. The citizens of the town
are encouraged to recognize and celebrate the anniversary of the incorporation
of the town.
(1983 Code, § 1-1-10-1)
Statutory reference:
   Indiana Day, see I.C. 1-1-10-1
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
31.02   Department of Redevelopment; Redevelopment Commission
   
31.03   Department of Storm Water Management
   
31.04   Fall Creek Regional Waste District
§ 31.01 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Town Department of Parks and Recreation
pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3.
   (B)   The Town Department of Parks and Recreation shall have all of the
powers and duties set out in I.C. 36-10-3.
   (C)   There is hereby established a miscellaneous nonreverting fund within
the parks budget.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 31.02 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT; REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Town Department of Redevelopment (the “Department”), controlled by
a board of five members to be known as the “Town of Ingalls Redevelopment
Commission” (the “Commission”), is hereby created and established.
   (B)    Three members of the Commission shall be appointed by the President
of the Town Council and two members of the Commission shall be appointed by the
Town Council in accordance with § 6.1 of I.C. 36-7-14.
   (C)   The Department shall be governed by I.C. 36-7-14 and the Commission
shall have the power and authority to do and perform all things now or
hereafter granted to it by I.C. 36-7-14.
   (D)   All of the territory within the corporate boundaries of the town
constitutes a taxing district for the purpose of levying and collecting special
benefit taxes as provided in the I.C. 36-7-14.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 31.03 DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   I.C. 8-1.5-5 concerning “Storm Water Management Systems” (“Act”) is
hereby adopted by the Town Council so as to make the Act and any and all
amendments thereto effective and operative in the town.
   (B)   Pursuant to the Act, a Department of Storm Water Management shall be
and is hereby created for the purpose of providing for the collection, disposal
and drainage of storm and surface water and the relieving of sanitary sewers of
such water in the town.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Act specifically I.C. 8-1.5-5-5, there is hereby
created a special taxing district which shall include all of the territory
within the corporate boundaries of the town.
   (D)   Pursuant to the Act, specifically I.C. 8-1.5-5-4, the Department of
Storm Water Management shall be controlled by a Board of Directors, which shall
consist of five Directors, which may be members of the Town Council. The
President of the Town Council shall appoint the Directors.
   (E)   The terms of all Directors shall be for a period of three years.
   (F)   The Board of Directors of the Department of Storm Water Management
shall have the powers and duties set forth in the Act.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 31.04 FALL CREEK REGIONAL WASTE DISTRICT.
   The Town Council President shall nominate an individual to be town’s
representative on the Board of Trustees of the Fall Creek Regional Waste
District; the Town Council shall vote to approve the Town Council President’s
nominee; and the Town Council President shall appoint the individual to be
town’s representative on the Board of Trustees of the Fall Creek Regional Waste
District after the Town Council has voted to approve the Town Council
President’s nomination by a majority vote.
(Res. 2012-1, passed 1-3-2012)
CHAPTER 32: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Compensation, vacation and the like
   
32.02   Salary
   
32.03   Nondiscrimination policy
   
32.04   Nepotism
   
32.05   Health and dental insurance
   
32.06   Equal employment
   
32.07   Reserved
   
32.08   Employee handbook
Officials
   
32.20   Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.21   Deputy Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.22   Town Marshal
   
32.23   Residency of Town Marshal
Drug and Alcohol Testing Policy
   
32.35   Generally
   
32.36   Purpose and scope of policy
   
32.37   Definitions
   
32.38   Prohibited activities
   
32.39   Tests required
   
32.40   Testing methodology and integrity
   
32.41   Test results
   
32.42   Payments of costs
   
32.43   Availability and confidentiality of test results
   
32.44   Elected officials
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 COMPENSATION, VACATION AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANNIVERSARY. The date of employment from which service time is computed
to determine the accrual of vacation and sick leave benefits.
      COMPENSATION. A salary, wage, allowance and all other forms of valuable
consideration earned by or paid to an employee by reason of his or her service
or position. It does not include any reimbursement for any expense incurred in
the course of employment.
      EMPLOYEE. A person legally occupying a position of office in town
service.
      POSITION. The current duties and responsibilities assigned or delegated
by competent authority requiring the full-time or part-time service of one
person.
      REGULAR EMPLOYEE. A person in full-time, 40 hours per week position, who
is paid on a monthly salary and who is entitled to paid vacation, sick leave,
holiday and other benefits as established by the Council.
      TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE. A person in a temporary or irregular position hired
for a period not to exceed a total of six months of 1,050 hours in any 12-month
calendar period with the vacation, sick leave, holidays or benefits established
for regular employees. It does not include CETA Program Employees.
      TOWN SERVICE. All positions, departments and agencies that are controlled
and regulated by the Council.
   (B)   New employees shall be selected to fill vacancies in the town service
on the basis of their qualifications. All employees shall complete and submit
applications, agreements or statements pertinent to their employment as
provided by the Council. The town may require a physical examination of any new
regular and temporary employee.
   (C)   (1)   As a condition of employment, the town may prescribe appropriate
apparel or uniforms.
      (2)   The town shall provide all essential equipment and tools. An
employee may elect to provide all or any part of his or her own equipment and
tools. All town equipment will be signed out prior to its use by any employee.
Any employee who has town equipment in his or her possession will be held
liable and shall make restitution in the case of damage.
      (3)   Town equipment and tools shall be used solely in the exercise of
authorized town business. Any other use shall be authorized by the Council or
Clerk-Treasurer prior to that use.
   (D)   All police officers shall reside in the town. All other employees
shall reside in the town or within 15-minute drive from town limits. FIFTEEN-
MINUTE DRIVE means the time taken to travel by auto while complying with
traffic regulations.
   (E)   Wages:
      (1)   All employees shall be paid bi-weekly; and
      (2)   All employees shall be paid no less than the current minimum wage
required by federal law. The Council sets all salaries.
   (F)   The regular work week for all employees except emergency personnel
shall consist of 40 hours.
   (G)   (1)   Municipal offices shall be closed on and all employees except
emergency personnel shall observe the following holidays:
         (a)   January 1 (New Year’s Day);
         (b)   Primary election day;
         (c)   The last Monday in May (Memorial Day);
         (d)   July 4 (Independence Day);
         (e)   The first Monday in September (Labor Day);
         (f)   General election day;
         (g)   The fourth Thursday in November (Thanksgiving Day);
         (h)   The Friday following Thanksgiving;
         (i)   December 24 (Christmas Eve);
         (j)   December 25 (Christmas Day); and
         (k)   And any public holiday proclaimed by the federal government.
      (2)   If any holiday falls on a Saturday, it shall be celebrated on the
preceding Friday.
         (a)   If any holiday falls on a Sunday, it shall be celebrated on the
following Monday.
         (b)   All employees who work on a holiday shall receive an equivalent
amount of time off.
   (H)   (1)   All vacation leave not taken at the end of the calendar year
will be forfeited. Vacation leave shall not accumulate from year to year.
      (2)   Employees shall be awarded vacation leave based on their years of
continuous service. An employee completes each year of service on the
anniversary of his or her employment.
 
Years of Service Vacation Days
0 to 4           10 days
5 or more        15 days
 
      (3)   Employees must schedule their vacation through their department
head or in the event of a department head taking vacation time, such vacation
shall be scheduled through the Council. At least two weeks’ written notice must
be given before an employee shall be eligible to receive compensation for
vacation time.
      (4)   During the first year of employment, employees shall accrue
vacation days at the rate of two and one-half days for each three months of
service, but in no event shall employees be entitled to more than ten vacation
days during the first two years of employment.
   (I)   Sick leave and bereavement pay:
      (1)   Each employee shall receive five sick leave days during each year
of continuous employment. Sick leave days shall not accumulate from year to
year; however, unused sick leave days may be paid at such employee’s regular
rate at the end of each year. Sick leave may be used for illness of the
employee or his or her immediate family and for medical appointments by the
employee.
      (2)   Employees are entitled to bereavement pay when there is a death in
the employee’s immediate family; for the purposes of this division (I),
IMMEDIATE FAMILY means the following relatives of the employee and no other
persons:
         (a)   Parent;
         (b)   Grandparent;
         (c)   Child;
         (d)   Grandchild;
         (e)   Spouse;
         (f)   Spouse’s child; and
         (g)   Brother or sister.
      (3)   Bereavement leave shall not be deducted from accumulated sick leave
or vacation leave. The employee shall be eligible to receive compensation for
the day before, the day of and the day after the funeral if such days are
otherwise normal working days.
   (J)   Any employee who violates or knowingly abuses the rules and privileges
set forth in this section or any other condition of his or her employment shall
be subject to disciplinary action. A verbal warning shall be given to the
employee for the first offense. The verbal warning shall be given for the
second or subsequent offense and the employee may be suspended for up to seven
days without pay. If an employee receives two or more written warnings, he or
she may be dismissed without severance pay. An employee may appeal any
suspension or dismissal order to the Council.
   (K)   The town shall pay all documented expenses, including registration
fees, incurred by any one employee designated by the Council to represent the
town at conferences. The town shall also reimburse employee meal and travel
expenses at the rate of $35 per day in addition to any other payments
authorized by this section. The town shall not reimburse the employee for
expenses incurred by any other person
   (L)   Social Security deductions shall be deposited with the Public
Employees’ Retirement Fund (PERF).
   (M)   The Council shall fix the compensation of its members, and all town
officers and employees in a salary ordinance to be adopted annually.
(1983 Code, § 36-5-3-2) (Ord. passed 12-15-1961; Ord. 80-4, passed 10-4-1980;
Ord. 81-1, passed 10-10-1981; Ord. 81-4, passed 1-9-1982; Ord. 88-15, passed
12-12-1988; Ord. 2000-8, passed 10-16-2000; Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-11-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see I.C. 36-5-3-2
§ 32.02 SALARY.
   The Town Council may establish salaries for employees and officials of the
town from time to time.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 041315, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 32.03 NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   Every contract to which the town is a party, including franchises
granted to public utilities, shall contain a provision requiring the contractor
and his or her subcontractors not to discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment, to be employed in the performance of such contract,
with respect to his or her hire, tenure, terms, conditions or privileges of
employment or any matter directly or indirectly related to employment or any
matter directly or indirectly related to employment, because of his or her
race, religion, color, sex, handicap, national origin or ancestry.
   (B)   Breach of this covenant may be regarded as a material breach of the
contract.
(1983 Code, § 22-9-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Public contracts; nondiscrimination, see I.C. 22-9-1-10
§ 32.04 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012 the town shall have a nepotism and a contracting with
a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter “nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter “contracting with
a unit by a relative policy”) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town nepotism policy is hereby established effective July 1, 2012
by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition, a copy of I.C. 3 6-1-20.2 in effect on July 1 is attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
   (D)   The town contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition, a copy of I.C. 36-1-21 is attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and therefore without such authority by the majority he or she will
not be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-11, 36-5-2-9.4.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section, and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of either
the nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of either the nepotism policy or
the contracting with unit by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed
by law.
   (K)   (1)   The polices created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
         (a)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees:
         (b)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
         (c)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section;
or
         (d)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
polices established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
      (2)   Upon any of taking these actions, these policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 effective
July 1, 2012 are annexed hereto.
   (M)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the town for
public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Res. 2012-2, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 32.05 HEALTH AND DENTAL INSURANCE.
   (A)   The town has determined that it is mutually beneficial for the town
and for its employees for the town to provide assistance with respect to health
and dental insurance. The town shall therefore fund 50% of the expense for
health insurance and dental insurance for employees who choose to participate
in the program. The town’s portion of said expense shall be funded from the
same fund that the employees normal compensation is funded from.
   (B)   The town has determined that it would be beneficial for a
simplification of accounting practices to set up a separate account for payroll
purposes. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed to establish such
additional accounts as are necessary and appropriate for the purpose of
simplifying the town payroll.
(Ord. 1996-3, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 32.06 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Employment. The town does not discriminate on the basis of disability
in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all regulations as
outlined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under Title I of
the ADA.
   (B)   Effective communication. The town will, upon request, provide
appropriate aids and services leading to effective participation for people
with disabilities to participate equally in town programs, services and
activities. Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective
participation or modification of policies or procedures to participate in a
service, program or activity, should contact the office of the ADA Coordinator
as soon as possible, but no later than 48 hours before the scheduled event.
   (C)   Modification to policies and procedures. The town will make all
reasonable modifications to policies and programs to ensure that people with
disabilities have an equal opportunity to enjoy all of its programs, services
and activities. The ADA does not require the town to take any action that would
fundamentally alter the nature of its services or programs or impose an undue
financial or administrative burden to the town. Grievances regarding a service,
program or activity of the town that is not accessible to persons with
disabilities should be directed to the ADA Coordinator and use the appropriate
grievance procedure form. The town will not place a surcharge on a particular
individual with a disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to
cover the cost of providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications
of policy, such as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public,
but are not accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   The town has adopted an internal grievance procedure providing for
prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging any action prohibited by
the U.S. Department of Justice regulations implementing Title II of the
Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), Title II states, in part, that “no
otherwise qualified disabled individual shall, solely by reason of such
disability, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of or
be subjected to discrimination in programs, services or activities sponsored by
a public entity”.
         (a)   Step one: file the grievance. Complete the town grievance form.
The grievance form can be found on the town website (www.TownofIngalls.us) or
in the ADA Coordinator’s office. A grievance may be communicated in writing, by
e-mail, by fax or by telephone, but must follow the format of the town
grievance form. A grievance concerning the accessibility of the town services,
programs or activities should be addressed to: ADA Coordinator.
         (b)   Step two: acknowledgment. A grievance should be filed within 90
days after the grievant party becomes aware of the alleged violation. The ADA
Coordinator will send an acknowledgment of receipt of the grievance within 12
working days.
         (c)   Step three: informal resolution. Following the filing of a
grievance, the ADA Coordinator shall determine whether, and to what extent, an
investigation of the grievance is warranted. Any resulting investigation shall
be conducted by the ADA Coordinator or his or her designee. A thorough
investigation affords all interested persons and their representatives an
opportunity to submit evidence relevant to a grievance. The ADA Coordinator
will complete the investigation within 60 calendar days of receipt of the
grievance. If appropriate, the ADA Coordinator will arrange to meet with the
grievant to discuss the matter and attempt to reach an informal resolution of
the grievance. Any informal resolution of the grievance shall be documented in
the ADA Coordinator file and the case will be closed.
         (d)   Step four: written determination. If an informal resolution of
the grievance is not reached in Step 3, within 60 calendar days of receipt of
the grievance, a written determination as to the validity of the complaint, and
description of the resolution, if appropriate, shall be forwarded by the ADA
Coordinator to the Executive Officer for approval.
         (e)   Step five: final determination and resolution. The ADA
Coordinator shall communicate the determination and resolution to the grievant
within 90 calendar days of receipt of the grievance, unless the Executive
Officer authorizes additional time for further consideration of the grievance.
Any authorized extension of time will be communicated to the grievant. Any
request for reconsideration of the response to the grievance shall be at the
discretion of the Executive Officer.
      (2)   If the grievant is not satisfied with the town’s handling of the
grievance at any stage of the process, or does not wish to file a grievance
through Town of Ingalls ADA Title II Grievance Procedures, the grievant may
file a complaint directly with the U.S. Department of Justice or other
appropriate state or federal agency. Use of town grievance procedure is not a
prerequisite to the pursuit of other remedies.
      (3)   The resolution of any specific grievance will require consideration
of varying circumstances, such as the specific nature of the disability; the
nature of the access to services, programs or facilities at issue, the
essential eligibility requirements for participation; the health and safety of
others; and the degree to which an accommodation would constitute a fundamental
alteration to the service, program or facility, or cause an undue hardship to
the town. Accordingly, the resolution by the town of any one grievance does not
constitute a precedent upon which the town is bound or upon which other
complaining parties may rely.
   (E)   File maintenance. The Town ADA Coordinator shall maintain ADA
Grievance files for three years.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 32.07 RESERVED.
§ 32.08 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   The Town Employee Handbook is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in
full. A full copy of the handbook can be found in the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s
office.
(Ord. passed 12-26-2016)
OFFICIALS
§ 32.20 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected at large by the voters of
the whole town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may in his or her discretion have one Deputy Clerk
to whom he or she may delegate authority.
(1983 Code, § 36-5-2-5) (Ord. 91-5, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Election of members of Council, see I.C. 36-5-2-5
§ 32.21 DEPUTY CLERK-TREASURER.
   The office of Deputy Clerk-Treasurer is hereby created. The Deputy Clerk
Treasurer is employed as an assistant to the Clerk-Treasurer and may fulfill
the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer in the absence of said Clerk-Treasurer. Said
Deputy serves at the discretion of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1993-3, passed 6-14-1993)
§ 32.22 TOWN MARSHAL.
   The office of Town Marshal is hereby established.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 12-4-1992)
§ 32.23 RESIDENCY OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-4.5-5, the duly appointed Town Marshal shall reside
within a distance no greater than ten miles from the Police Department
headquarters currently located at 247 N. Meridian St., Ingalls, Indiana, or
from said department headquarters wherever they may be located in the future.
(Ord. passed 4-24-2017)
DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING POLICY
§ 32.35 GENERALLY.
   The Town Council has adopted a standard of conduct for its employees that
prohibits the unlawful possession, use, or distribution of illicit drugs and
alcohol by employees of the town and believes certain provisions of said
standard of behavior and conduct should apply to all elected officials and
department heads. It is the goal of the town to maintain not only a drug-free
workplace, but a drug-free standard of conduct for administration of official
town business and therefore adopts this subchapter.
(Ord. 082216, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 32.36 PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF POLICY.
   (A)   The town drug and alcohol policy prohibits any town employee from
possessing, using, being under the influence of, manufacturing, distributing or
dispensing alcohol or non-prescribed controlled substances during working hours
and at all times while on town property, in town vehicles or conducting town
business. As part of an effort to maintain the quality of town services and to
ensure that the town is a safe and healthy place to work, a drug and alcohol
testing program has been developed to detect the use of illegal substances and
misuse of alcohol, to ensure that employees with substance abuse problems are
referred to appropriate professional help, and to outline disciplinary
procedures for those who fail to comply with the drug and alcohol policy.
   (B)   The United States Department of Transportation (DOT) mandates drug and
alcohol testing for employees whose job duties require a commercial drivers
license (CDL). The town will also test applicants who have been offered
employment with the town, and those employees who hold positions that impact
public safety or the safety of co-workers (safety impact positions). All town
employees will be subject to testing on the basis of reasonable suspicion and
after certain accidents occurring within the scope of this policy. If the
employee tests positive under such conditions, he or she will also be subject
to follow-up testing as described in this subchapter.
   (C)   As a condition of employment, all town employees will be required to
agree in writing to be tested for drugs and/or alcohol as outlined in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 082216, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 32.37 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. Employee who operates a commercial motor vehicle (gross vehicle
weight in excess of 26,000 pounds) as a requirement of his or her job, whether
full-time, part-time or seasonal. DRIVERS also include applicants for such
positions.
   NEGATIVE ALCOHOL TEST. Test in which the blood alcohol concentration (BAC)
registers less than 0.02 % by weight.
   NEGATIVE DRUG TEST. Test that fails to detect the presence of one or more
illegal drugs or classes of illegal drugs at levels exceeding the cutoff levels
established by the Department of Transportation and/or the town.
   POSITIVE ALCOHOL TEST. Test in which the blood alcohol concentration (BAC)
registers 0.02% or greater by weight.
   POSITIVE DRUG TEST. Test that detects the presence of one or more illegal
drugs or classes of illegal drugs at levels exceeding the cutoff levels
established by the Department of Transportation and/or the town.
   POSSESSING. Having something on the person or in a place under substantially
exclusive control.
   RANDOM SELECTION. Scientifically valid method requiring that all employees
in the random selection pool have an equal chance of being drawn in every
selection.
   REASONABLE SUSPICION. Circumstances sufficient to cause a reasonable person
to suspect that another person has violated the drug and/or alcohol
prohibitions in this subchapter or the town’s drug and alcohol policy.
   REFUSING TO BE TESTED. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   Failing to appear for any test within a reasonable time after being
directed to do so;
      (2)   Failing to remain at the testing site until the testing process is
complete;
      (3)   Failing to attempt to provide a urine specimen for any required
drug test or a breath specimen for any required alcohol test;
      (4)   Failing to provide a sufficient and valid urine specimen for a drug
test or a sufficient breath specimen for an alcohol test without an adequate
medical explanation;
      (5)   In the case of a directly observed collection in a drug test,
failing to permit the observation of the provision of a specimen;
      (6)   Failing or declining to take a second test as directed;
      (7)   Failing to undergo a medical examination or evaluation as required
by this subchapter;
      (8)   Failing to sign required testing documentation; or
      (9)   Failing to cooperate with any part of the testing process, or
engaging in intentional conduct that obstructs the testing process.
   SAFETY-SENSITIVE FUNCTION. Any of the following that a driver performs or is
required to perform while on the job:
      (1)   Driving;
      (2)   Time spent waiting to be dispatched or to perform other activities
described in this section;
      (3)   Inspecting, servicing or conditioning equipment;
      (4)   Being in or on a commercial motor vehicle;
      (5)   Loading or unloading, including supervising or assisting in loading
or unloading, attending a vehicle being loaded or unloaded, remaining in
readiness to operate the vehicle, or giving or receiving receipts for the
shipment being loaded or unloaded;
      (6)   Securing the vehicle and taking all of the precautionary measures
required by DOT regulations following an accident; or
      (7)   Repairing, obtaining assistance or attending a disabled vehicle.
   SAFETY IMPACT POSITION. Position, other than driver, in which a town
employee may have a discernable effect on public safety or on the safety of co-
workers.
   SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROFESSIONAL (SAP). Licensed physician or licensed or
certified psychologist, social worker, employee assistance professional, or
addiction counselor with knowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis
and treatment of alcohol and controlled substance-related disorders.
   WORKING HOURS. All time for which the employee is being paid by the town and
all time when the employee is clocked out during a shift for meals or for any
other reason.
(Ord. 082216, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 32.38 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The following conduct is strictly prohibited in the circumstances
described in §
32.36(A) of this subchapter:
      (1)   Using, being under the influence of or possessing illegal drugs;
      (2)   Using or being under the influence of legal drugs that are being
used in a manner other than prescribed;
      (3)   Using or being under the influence of legal drugs whose use can
adversely affect the ability of the employee to perform his or her job safely,
without disclosing such to a supervisor prior to being detected;
      (4)   Selling, buying, soliciting to buy or sell, transporting, or
possessing illegal drugs;
      (5)   Using alcohol within four hours before performing a safety-
sensitive function or performing in a safety impact position;
      (6)   Using or being under the influence of alcohol at any time while
driving or performing any other safety-sensitive function;
      (7)   Consuming any amount of alcohol while on duty, while driving a town
vehicle or while conducting town business;
      (8)   Resting positive for illegal drugs and/or alcohol in circumstances
that violate this subchapter;
      (9)   Refusing to consent to be tested for drugs and alcohol;
      (10)   Failing to submit to a drug and/or alcohol test as directed by the
town;
      (11)   Violating any applicable federal, state or local requirements
governing the use of drugs or alcohol;
      (12)   Doing anything to obstruct the town’s goals with respect to drugs
and alcohol;
      (13)   Failing to report another employee who violates this policy when
the employee who fails to report has reasonable suspicion to believe the policy
has been violated; or
      (14)   Falsely reporting a violation of this subchapter, if the report is
intentionally false.
   (B)   An off-duty employee who is called in to work outside regular working
hours, and has consumed alcohol within the past four hours, shall notify his or
her supervisor of that fact before reporting to work. The employee and
supervisor are jointly responsible for determining whether the employee should
report to work at that time.
   (C)   Any employee who violates the prohibitions in this section will be
subject to disciplinary action as outlined in the town’s employee manual, as
well as any and all applicable standard operating procedure manual.
(Ord. 082216, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 32.39 TESTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The town will conduct tests under the following conditions:
         (a)   After an offer of employment but before an applicant is hired
for any position in town government (pre-employment testing);
         (b)   For reasonable suspicion that the employee is under the
influence of drugs or alcohol;
         (c)   Following certain accidents while on duty (post-accident
testing);
         (d)   On a random basis for drivers, employees and elected officials
in safety impact positions; and
         (e)   As follow-up to substance abuse counseling.
      (2)   The town’s procedures and requirements for each test are described
in this section.
   (B)   Pre-employment testing.
      (1)   This test is required before an applicant for a position in town
government will be hired. This test is also required before an employee not in
a safety impact position is transferred to a safety impact position. For
purposes of the town’s policy concerning pre-employment testing, applicants and
current employees who are applying for a safety impact position are
collectively referred to as “applicant”.
      (2)   Applicants will be subject to drug testing only.
      (3)   An applicant to whom an offer has been extended will be asked to
agree in writing to be tested for drugs. The applicant will be notified to
report for a drug test and given instructions for the collection procedures.
      (4)   All offers by the town to hire an applicant, or to transfer an
applicant to a safety impact position, are conditioned upon the applicant:
         (a)   Agreeing in writing to be tested for drugs;
         (b)   Taking a drug test as directed by the town and obtaining a
negative result;
         (c)   Executing the town’s authorization form by which the town
obtains past drug and alcohol test results for drivers; and
         (d)   Complying with any other conditions or requirements of which the
town advises the applicant at the time of the offer.
      (5)   An applicant who refuses or fails to agree in writing to be tested
in accordance with this subchapter, who refuses or fails to execute the town’s
authorization to obtain past drug or alcohol test results, who refuses or fails
to submit to a pre-employment drug test as directed, whose test result is
positive, or who intentionally obstructs the testing process will be subject to
disciplinary action as outlined in the town's employee manual, as well as any
and all applicable standard operating procedure manual.
   (C)   Post-accident testing.
      (1)   An employee who is driving during working hours, or at any time in
a town vehicle or on town business, must submit to post-accident drug and
alcohol tests as soon as possible (within two hours) after an accident as
described in subsections (2) and (3) below. An employee who is not driving, but
whose actions are believed to have contributed to the accident, may also be
tested.
      (2)   An employee must submit to a post-accident test as soon as possible
after an accident that involves the death of a human being.
      (3)   An employee must submit to a post-accident test as soon as possible
after an accident whenever:
         (a)   The employee receives a citation for a moving violation
involving the accident;
         (b)   A person is injured and the injuries require immediate medical
attention to the person away from the accident scene; or
         (c)   One or more motor vehicles involved in the accident incur
disabling damage and must be transported away from the accident scene by a tow
truck or another vehicle.
      (4)   It is possible that an employee will be directed to submit to a
drug and/or alcohol test at the scene of the accident by a law enforcement
officer. When a test is conducted by a law enforcement officer, the employee is
not required to take another drug and/or alcohol test at the town’s testing
site.
      (5)   Whenever an employee is involved in an accident as described in
subsections (2) and (3) above, and is not tested for drugs and alcohol by a law
enforcement officer, the employee is required to notify his or her supervisor
immediately. The supervisor will make arrangements for drug and/or alcohol
tests in compliance with this policy. The employee is not required to delay
necessary medical treatment in order to be tested, but should request a drug
and alcohol test at the town’s expense as a part of any medical treatment.
      (6)   An employee who is required to take post-accident drug and alcohol
tests will, at the town’s discretion, be assigned to an available non-safety
impact position in the employee’s department. If no position is available, or
if the town so chooses, the employee will be placed on administrative leave
with pay while awaiting the test results. If the test results are positive, the
employee will not be paid for the period of the leave.
      (7)   An employee who refuses or fails to submit to a post-accident drug
or alcohol test as required, who unnecessarily delays reporting to the test
site following an accident, whose test results are positive, or who
intentionally obstructs the testing process will be subject to disciplinary
action as outlined in the town’s employee manual, as well as any and all
applicable standard operating procedure manual.
      (8)   The results of post-accident drug and alcohol tests will not be
provided to law enforcement agencies for criminal action.
   (D)   Random testing.
      (1)   Drivers are subject to drug and alcohol testing on a random basis.
Employees in safety impact positions and elected officials are subject to
random drug testing only; however, participation in said random drug testing by
elected officials is to only be consensual. Such tests will be given without
advance notification.
      (2)   Random alcohol tests will be performed only when the driver is
performing safety-sensitive functions, just before the driver is to perform
safety-sensitive functions, or just after the driver has ceased performing
safety-sensitive functions.
      (3)   Under the town’s random selection process, drivers and employees in
safety impact positions will be kept in a separate pool from that of elected
officials. Within each pool, every employee will have an equal chance of being
selected each time a selection is conducted. This means that some covered
employees may be randomly selected for testing more than one time annually
while others may not be selected at all. Appropriate safeguards will ensure
that the identity of individual employees cannot be determined prior to or at
the time of their selection.
      (4)   An employee who refuses to submit to a random test, who fails to
report for the test as directed, who tests positive, or who intentionally
obstructs the testing process will be subject to disciplinary action as
outlined in the town’s employee manual, as well as any and all applicable
standard operating procedure manual.
   (E)   Reasonable suspicion testing.
      (1)   Each employee will be required to submit to a drug and/or alcohol
test whenever the town has reasonable suspicion to believe the employee has
used drugs and/or alcohol in violation of the town’s drug and alcohol policy or
this subchapter.
      (2)   Reasonable suspicion will exist when an employee’s appearance,
behavior, speech, or body odor indicates drug or alcohol use. Such indications
must be personally observed and documented by at least one town supervisor who
has received training on the manifestations of drug and alcohol use.
      (3)   When an employee is notified that reasonable suspicion exists for
testing, he or she will be transported immediately by a town supervisor to the
test site to be tested for drugs and/or alcohol. The town will make
arrangements to transport the employee home after the test. The employee will
not be allowed to drive home unless the test is completed and demonstrates
conclusively that the employee has not violated this subchapter.
      (4)   An employee who is required to take a reasonable suspicion test
will be considered at that time unqualified for work and will immediately be
placed on administrative leave with pay pending the outcome of the test. If the
test result is positive, the employee will not be paid for the period of the
leave.
      (5)   An employee who refuses or fails to submit to a reasonable
suspicion test, whose test is positive, or who intentionally obstructs the
testing process will be subject to disciplinary action as outlined in the
town’s employee manual, as well as any and all applicable standard operating
procedure manual.
   (F)   Return-to-work and follow-up testing.
      (1)   Following a positive drug and/or alcohol test, a determination that
an employee is in need of assistance in resolving problems associated with
drugs and/or alcohol, and a decision that the employee will not be fired, the
employee must be retested and obtain negative results prior to returning to the
job.
      (2)   The employee will also be subject to unannounced follow-up testing,
as directed by a substance abuse professional (sap), for up to 60 months.
      (3)   An employee who refuses or fails to submit to return-to-work or
follow-up testing, whose test is positive, or who intentionally obstructs the
testing process will be subject to disciplinary action as outlined in the
town’s employee manual, as well as any and all applicable standard operating
procedure manual.
(Ord. 082216, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 32.40 TESTING METHODOLOGY AND INTEGRITY.
   (A)   Generally. To ensure the integrity and accuracy of each test, all
specimen collections, analysis, and laboratory procedures will be conducted by
an independent testing facility in accordance with DOT and all other applicable
protocols.
   (B)   Drug tests.
      (1)   All drug tests conducted under this subchapter require the employee
to provide a specimen of his or her urine.
      (2)   (a)   Before being tested by the town, each employee will be
required to:
            1.   Present his or her personal identification;
            2.   Empty his or her pockets; and
            3.   Execute a custody and control form provided by collection site
personnel.
         (b)   An employee who refuses to provide his or her identification,
provides a false identification, refuses to empty his or her pockets, refuses
to execute a custody and control form, or who otherwise refuses or fails to
cooperate, will be treated as though he or she has tested positive and will be
subject to disciplinary action as outlined in the town’s employee manual, as
well as any and all applicable standard operating procedure manual.
      (3)   (a)   Employees will be permitted to give a urine specimen in
private and without being directly observed by collection site personnel
unless:
            1.   An employee previously provided an invalid specimen for which
there was no adequate medical explanation;
            2.   Collection site personnel observe materials or employee
conduct that clearly indicate or are consistent with an attempt to tamper with
a specimen;
            3.   The temperature on the original specimen is out of range; or
            4.   The original specimen appears to have been tampered with.
         (b)   The collector must explain and document the reason for the
directly observed collection.
      (4)   All specimens will be evaluated to determine that they are
consistent with normal human urine, and they have not been substituted,
adulterated or otherwise invalidated. Any employee who deliberately attempts to
undermine the testing process by substituting or adulterating his or her
specimen will be treated as though he or she has tested positive and will be
subject to disciplinary action as outlined in the town’s employee manual, as
well as any and all applicable standard operating procedure manual.
      (5)   (a)   At a minimum, urine specimens will be analyzed for the
presence of the following drugs:
            1.   Marijuana;
            2.   Cocaine;
            3.   Opiates;
            4.   Amphetamines; or
            5.   Phencyclidine (PCP).
         (b)   Specimens may also be analyzed for such other substances as may
be required or permitted by state or federal law and necessary to enforce the
town’s drug and alcohol policy. The town reserves the right to begin testing
immediately for other illegal substances without prior notice.
      (6)   All drug tests will be administered using the split sample
methodology required by DOT. Under this methodology, the employee must provide
at least 45 milliliters of urine in a specimen container. At the laboratory,
the bottle containing 30 milliliters will be divided in half and analyzed as
the employee’s primary specimen. If the first test yields positive results, the
second half of the primary specimen will be analyzed at the same laboratory
using scientifically recognized and acceptable technology. In the event the
primary specimen is confirmed positive by the testing facility, the employee
will be notified by the Town Manager, or in the event the employee tested is
the Town Manager, the Council President, and the employee given the option of
having the second bottle sent to a different laboratory for analysis. To
exercise this option, the employee must advise their supervisor within 72 hours
of being told that the primary specimen is positive.
      (7)   Employees are responsible for knowing the contents, appropriate
dosage, and effects of prescription and non-prescription medications. Nothing
in this subchapter prohibits an employee’s use of a medication legally
prescribed by a licensed physician who is familiar with the employee’s medical
history and specific duties and; who has advised the employee that the
prescribed medication will not adversely affect the employee’s ability to
perform his or her duties safely. Under the town’s drug and alcohol policy,
employees are required to inform their supervisors of prescription and non-
prescription medications that may impair their ability to perform essential job
functions. Medications prescribed for someone other than the employee will not
be considered lawfully used under any circumstances.
      (8)   Before a confirmed positive test is reported to the town, an
employee will be given an opportunity to provide a list of any prescription
and/or non-prescription medications being lawfully used by that employee at
that time. A positive drug test may be declared negative by the testing
laboratory facility if the employee can prove with clear and convincing
evidence that the drug which was used was prescribed by a licensed physician
who is familiar with the employee’s medical history and specific duties. This
determination will be solely the responsibility of the testing laboratory
facility.
      (9)   In the event an employee is unable to produce 45 milliliters of
urine within a three-hour period, the employee will be required to submit to an
evaluation by a licensed physician selected by the town to determine whether a
valid medical condition exists to explain the problem. If the physician
determines a valid medical condition does exist, the test result will be
reported to the town as “negative”. If the physician determines a valid medical
condition does not exist, the employee will be subject to disciplinary action,
as outlined in the town’s employee manual, as well as any and all applicable
standard operating procedure manual, for refusing to be tested.
   (C)   Alcohol tests.
      (1)   All alcohol tests conducted by, or on behalf of, the town under
this subchapter require that the employee provide a breath specimen. In the
case of an alcohol test conducted by a law enforcement officer following an
accident, the employee may provide either a breath or blood specimen, as
requested by the officer.
      (2)   Alcohol tests will be administered by a breath alcohol technician
(BAT) using an evidential breath testing device (EBT), except in cases of on-
scene, post-accident testing conducted by law enforcement officials or
preliminary return-to-duty testing by a town supervisor. Positive return-to-
duty tests will be verified by a BAT using an EBT.
      (3)   Before being tested by the town, each employee will be required to
present his or her personal identification; and execute a breath alcohol test
form provided by the BAT. An employee who refuses to provide his or her
identification, provides a false identification, refuses to execute a breath
alcohol test form, or who otherwise refuses or fails to cooperate will be
treated as though he or she has tested positive and will be subject to
disciplinary action as outlined in the town’s employee manual, as well as any
and all applicable standard operating procedure manual.
      (4)   Prior to each alcohol breath test conducted by the town using an
EBT, the BAT will instruct the employee on how to provide an adequate breath
sample.
      (5)   The BAT will open an individually-sealed mouthpiece and attach it
to the testing device within the employee’s view. The employee will then be
directed to blow forcefully into the mouthpiece until an adequate amount of
breath has been maintained. If the initial test registers an alcohol
concentration level 0.02% or greater by weight, a second, confirmatory breath
test will be performed within 20 minutes of the initial test. The result of the
confirmatory test will be deemed the final result.
      (6)   In the event an employee is unable to provide an adequate amount of
breath for the initial or confirmatory test after several attempts, the
employee will be required to submit to an evaluation by a licensed physician
selected by the town to determine whether a valid medical condition exists to
explain the problem. If the physician determines a valid medical condition does
exist, the test result will be reported to the town as “negative”. If the
physician determines a valid medical condition does not exist, the employee
will be subject to disciplinary action, as outlined in the town’s employee
manual, as well as any and all applicable standard operating procedure manual,
for refusing to be tested.
(Ord. 082216, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 32.41 TEST RESULTS.
   (A)   Drug tests.
      (1)   Before an employee’s test result will be confirmed positive for
drugs, the employee will be given an opportunity to speak with the director of
the testing facility and demonstrate a legitimate medical explanation for the
positive result. If the director of the testing facility determines that a
legitimate medical reason does exist, the test result will be reported to the
town as “negative”. If the director of the testing facility determines that a
legitimate medical reason does not exist, the test result will be reported to
the town as “confirmed positive”.
      (2)   Pursuant to DOT regulations, the director of the testing facility
will report medical information gathered during the verification process to
certain third parties, including the town, if it is the director of the testing
facility’s reasonable medical judgment that the information constitutes a
medical disqualification under an applicable DOT agency regulation; or the
information indicates that continued performance of safety sensitive functions
by the employee is likely to pose a significant safety risk.
      (3)   If the employee’s primary specimen tests positive, the employee
will be notified by the director of the testing facility and advised that he or
she has 72 hours to request that the secondary specimen be sent to another NIDA
certified laboratory for analysis. Pending the outcome of the additional
analysis, the employee will be suspended without pay. If the final test result
is negative, the employee will be paid for the period of the suspension.
      (4)   A diluted specimen is an indication that an employee has consumed a
large enough volume of fluid to put the body in a temporary state of over-
hydration. A diluted specimen is indicated by a low creatinin level and low
specific gravity. If an employee produces a negative diluted specimen, the
employee will be scheduled for re-testing. The result of the second test will
be the result of record. However, if an employee produces a positive diluted
specimen, the test will be treated as a “positive” and no further testing will
be conducted.
   (B)   Alcohol tests.
      (1)   If an employee provides an adequate breath specimen and the initial
test registers an alcohol concentration level less than 0.02% by weight, the
test results will be reported as “negative” and no further testing will be
required at that time.
      (2)   If an employee provides an adequate breath specimen and the initial
test registers an alcohol concentration level 0.02% or greater by weight, a
second, confirmatory breath test will be performed. If the employee provides an
adequate breath specimen and the confirmatory test registers less than 0.02% by
weight, the test results will be reported as “negative” and no further testing
will be required at that time.
      (3)   An employee whose confirmatory test registers 0.02% or greater by
weight will be subject to disciplinary action as outlined in the town’s
employee manual, as well as any and all applicable standard operating procedure
manual.
(Ord. 082216, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 32.42 PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   The town will pay the costs for all initial and confirmatory drug and
alcohol tests required by this subchapter.
   (B)   Employees are responsible for the costs of analyzing any secondary
urine specimens requested under section §
32.41(A)(3) of this subchapter. The town will reimburse the cost of the
analysis of a secondary urine specimen only if the test results are negative.
   (C)   Employees who are terminated under the provisions of this subchapter
will be responsible for the cost of any and all counseling that occurs after
the termination date.
(Ord. 082216, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 32.43 AVAILABILITY AND CONFIDENTIALITY OF TEST RESULTS.
   (A)   Any employee who has submitted to a drug and/or alcohol test under
this subchapter is entitled to receive a copy of the test results, upon written
request to the employee’s direct supervisor.
   (B)   The results of all individual drug and alcohol tests will be
considered confidential and kept in a secured location with controlled access.
   (C)   The release of an individual employee’s test results will be made only
in accordance with the employee’s written authorization or as otherwise
required by applicable laws, orders, regulations or ordinances.
(Ord. 082216, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 32.44 ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   To further evidence the spirit of leadership among the elected officials,
elected officials shall be subject to random drug testing; however, their
participation in said program shall be purely consensual, but shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 082216, passed 8-22-2016)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
33.01   Staggered terms
   
33.02   Adoption of Rules and Procedures Manual for Council Members
§ 33.01 STAGGERED TERMS.
   (A)   In the municipal elections to be held on November 2, 1999:
      (1)   The three individuals receiving the highest vote totals in the
balloting for positions on the Town Council shall each be elected to serve a
four-year term on the Council beginning at noon on January 1, 2000; and
      (2)   The two individuals receiving the fourth and fifth highest vote
totals in the balloting for positions on the Town Council shall be elected to
serve a three-year term on the Town Council beginning at noon on January 1,
2000.
   (B)   All successors to the Council members elected on November 2, 1999
shall be elected and serve for terms of four years.
(Ord. 1998-15, passed 12-28-1998)
§ 33.02 ADOPTION OF RULES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL FOR COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The Rules and Procedures Manual for Council Members is hereby adopted as the
official document for the administration of the town’s government.
(Res. 2012-3, passed 8-27-2012)
CHAPTER 34: FEES, FUNDS AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Association membership dues
   
34.02   Traffic accident report fees
   
34.03   Permissible methods of payment
   
34.04   Payment of certain claims in advance of Council approval
   
34.05   Procedures and usage of a purchase order system
   
34.06   Purchasing agency
   
34.07   Purchasing policies
   
34.08   Materiality and process for reporting material items
   
34.09   Internal control standards
Town Funds
   
34.20   Building Fund
   
34.21   Fire Department Equipment Fund
   
34.22   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
34.23   Cumulative Capital Development Fund rate
   
34.24   Rainy Day Fund
   
34.25   Cash Management Code; Cash Change Fund, Petty Cash Fund
   
34.26   Cash Reserve Fund
   
34.27   Trash Collection Fund
   
34.28   Depreciation and Replacement Fund
   
34.29   Fund 404 (casino and riverboat)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP DUES.
   (A)   The Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds to provide
for the payment of membership dues for the town, its elected and appointed
officials, and the members of its boards, councils, departments or agencies in
any local, regional, state or national associations of a civic, educational or
governmental nature which have as their purpose the improvement of municipal
operations.
   (B)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds to pay
the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and
functions of organizations to which the town belongs.
   (C)   The President of the Council shall designate the person or persons who
shall represent the town at any meeting or function of such organizations.
(1983 Code, § 36-5-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal administration, see I.C. 36-5-4-1
§ 34.02 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORT FEES.
   The Council fixes a charge of $5 for furnishing copies of accident reports.
(1983 Code, § 9-3-1-3) (Ord. 2003-9, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 34.03 PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CREDIT CARD.
         (a)   Credit card;
         (b)   Debit card;
         (c)   Charge card; or
         (d)   Stored value card.
   (B)   Authorized financial instruments.
      (1)   Payments may be made to the municipality for any lawful purpose by
any of the following financial instruments:
         (a)   Cash;
         (b)   Check;
         (c)   Bank draft;
         (d)   Money order;
         (e)   Bank card or credit card;
         (f)   Electronic funds transfer;
         (g)   Wire funds or Automated Clearing House (ACH); and
         (h)   Any other financial instrument authorized by the fiscal body.
      (2)   Payments may be made to the municipality and its utilities for any
lawful purpose by any of the following financial instruments that the board of
the municipally owned utility authorizes for use:
         (a)   Cash;
         (b)   Check;
         (c)   Bank draft;
         (d)   Money order;
         (e)   Bank card or credit card;
         (f)   Electronic funds transfer;
         (g)   Wire funds or Automated Clearing House (ACH); or
         (h)   Any other financial instrument authorized by the fiscal body.
      (3)   If there is a charge to the municipality, or the municipally owned
utility for the use of a financial instrument, a fee may be collected equal to
the amount of the charge from the person who uses the financial instrument.
   (C)   Procedures for payments to be uniform. In accepting payments under the
provisions of this subchapter and I.C. 36-1-8-11, the procedure authorized for
a particular type of payment shall be uniformly applied to all payments of the
same type. The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to administer and enforce this
section and to promulgate written guidelines consistent with its purposes.
   (D)   Added authority related to acceptance of bank or credit cards.
      (1)   The municipality and its utilities may contract with any of the
following:
         (a)   A bank card or credit card vendor for acceptance of bank cards
or credit cards; or
         (b)   A third party on-line collection service for acceptance of bank
cards or credit cards.
      (2)   The municipality, its executive departments and its utilities may
pay any applicable bank card or credit card service charge associated with the
use of a bank card or credit card under an approved contractual agreement.
   (E)   Authorized financial instruments.
      (1)   Payments may be made by the municipality for any lawful purpose by
any of the following financial instruments:
         (a)   Cash;
         (b)   Check;
         (c)   Bank draft;
         (d)   Money order;
         (e)   Bank card or credit card;
         (f)   Electronic funds transfer;
         (g)   Wire funds or Automated Clearing House (ACH); or
         (h)   Any other financial instrument authorized by the fiscal body.
      (2)   Payments may be made by the municipality and its utilities for any
lawful purpose by any of the following financial instruments that the board of
the municipally owned utility authorizes for use:
         (a)   Cash;
         (b)   Check;
         (c)   Bank draft;
         (d)   Money order;
         (e)   Bank card or credit card;
         (f)   Electronic funds transfer;
         (g)   Wire funds or Automated Clearing House (ACH); or
         (h)   Any other financial instrument authorized by the fiscal body.
   (F)   Authorized financial instruments for payments by municipality.
      (1)   Payments may be made by Clerk-Treasurer for the municipality for
any lawful purpose by any of the following financial instruments:
         (a)   Warrant or negotiable order of withdrawal pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-5-4 et seq., I.C. 5-11-10 et seq., and I.C. 5-13-5 et
seq.; or
         (b)   Bank card or credit card, provided that it is expressly
authorized by the Town Council, identifies the responsible officer for the
card, and expressly sets forth the approved uses for it.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-13-5-5, transactions or payments may be made by
the Clerk-Treasurer for the municipality for any lawful purpose set forth in
this section by any of the following financial instruments:
         (a)   Electronic funds transfer; or
         (b)   Wire funds or Automated Clearing House (ACH).
      (3)   In making payments under division (F)(2) above, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall maintain adequate documentation of the transactions so that they may be
audited as provided by law, and the use of the instruments set forth in
division (F)(2) above shall be limited to the following purposes:
         (a)   Property or services purchased or lease from:
            1.   The United States government; or
            2.   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
         (b)   Insurance premiums;
         (c)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
         (d)   Federal grant programs if:
            1.   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
            2.   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
         (e)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
         (f)   Lease agreements or rental agreement;
         (g)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
         (h)   Payroll;
         (i)   State, federal or county taxes; and
         (j)   Lawful purposes that may be identified by the Clerk-Treasurer
and authorized in writing and not inconsistent with this section.
      (4)   In addition to making payments under divisions (F)(2) and (F)(3)
above, the Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain adequate documentation of the
transactions and those in possession of any credit card issued to the town
which documentation shall include, but not be limited to, the maintenance of a
log by the Clerk-Treasurer reflecting the time, date, credit card issuer, last
four digits of the credit card account for each credit card delivered into the
possession of a department head and each department head shall maintain a
similar log of each individual whom they authorize to possess and use such
credit card, a copy of which log shall be provided by the department head to
the Clerk-Treasurer on a monthly basis to enable the Clerk-Treasurer to be
audited as provided by law.
(Ord. 032315A, passed - -)
§ 34.04 PAYMENT OF CERTAIN CLAIMS IN ADVANCE OF COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   The following shall constitute accounts payable in advance of formal
allowance in declared emergency situations:
   (A)   Authorized expenses. The Town Council approves and authorizes payments
to be made by the Clerk-Treasurer in advance of formal allowance by the Town
Council or other board or commission of jurisdiction for the following types of
expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a) The United States government;
         (b) An agency or political subdivision of the United States
government;
         (c) The government of the state; or
         (d) An agency or department or branch of the government of the state,
including a body politic and corporate of the state.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; or
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Refunds, which are in consequence of a class or program
cancellation or for event or program deposits as may be made by the Parks and
Recreation Department;
      (13)   Vendor payments in support of recreation, or special events
programs;
      (14)   Payments from the traffic violation agency fund;
      (15)   Payments to such vendors or service providers, public or private,
which have provided services or goods to the municipality and for which a delay
of payment incurs penalties or late payment charges;
      (16)   Payments made from the information and communications technology
fluid, provided such payments are lawful and made according to the purposes and
guidelines of the fund;
      (17)   Payments for the purchase of real estate; provided, that the
purchase and price has been duly authorized and approved by action of the
proper council, board or commission, and the purchase was executed in
compliance with I.C. 33-24, 36-1-10.5, 36-7, 36-9 or 36-10 and other relevant
laws;
      (18)   Expenditures for the following types of or contributions:
         (a)   Transfers or temporary loans in consequence of cash flow needs;
         (b)   Transfer made from the corporation general fund to the unsafe
building fund; or
         (c)   Transfers or contributions of department cost shares for duly
reviewed, paid expenses incurred and posted to the following internal service/
agency funds: gasoline (payment) fund, insurance (payment) fund and the payroll
fund; provided, in all cases, that the transfer has been duly authorized and
approved by action of the proper council, board or commission;
      (19)   Payments made for the purchase of road salt, or other supplies,
where a vendor requires payment to be remitted at time of delivery, provided
the proper department head determines such payment to be in the interest of
public safety;
      (20)   Payments made in consequence of or associated with a fund
development project or a promotional program related to economic development or
redevelopment, provided the project or program has been properly approved by
the appropriate board of commission;
      (21)   Payments made to employees’ health savings accounts by the
municipality as employer; or
      (22)   Payments as may be identified in other sections of the code of
ordinances.
   (B)   Voucher required. Each payment of expenses outlined in division (A) of
this section must be supported by a fully-itemized accounts payable voucher
with all attachments in support thereof, all of which shall be provided
electronically to all Council members 48 hours in advance of their proposed
payment.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the accounts payable vouchers and all associated
supporting documents, each Council member shall verbally or electronically make
known to the Town Council President any questions or concerns regarding any
accounts payable voucher. Within 30 hours after receipt of the accounts payable
vouchers, the Town Council President shall electronically inform the Clerk-
Treasurer of those claims which are approved for payment and those, if any,
which are not.
   (D)   Timely review. The Town Council as town legislative body or the board
having jurisdiction over allowance of the accounts payable voucher shall review
and allow the payment at the body’s or board’s next regular or special meeting
following the preapproved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-17-2008; Ord. 032320, passed 3-23-2020)
§ 34.05 PROCEDURES AND USAGE OF A PURCHASE ORDER SYSTEM.
   (A)   A purchase order system be established and set in place upon passage
of this section.
   (B)   The purchase order system described below will be utilized for all
departmental expenditures.
   (C)   A numbering system for purchase order numbers be created by the Town
Manager and Town Clerk-Treasurer that will be informative and easy to
understand.
   (D)   Monthly reporting of all purchase order numbers, outstanding and
closed, be prepared for all department heads and council members.
   (E)   Department heads seeking approval of expenditures must abide by the
following authorization procedure each time funds are requested.
      (1)   Contact shall be made with the Town Manager to discuss the
potential expenditure.
      (2)   Information needed for the discussion will include:
         (a)   The description of the expenditure;
         (b)   The amount of the expenditure; and
         (c)   The account(s) where the department head would like the
expenditure to be credited.
      (3)   The Town Manager will investigate the availability of the funds for
the expenditure. The Town Manager will review the available both the department
budget and the town budget.
      (4)   If funds are not available and the request is still pending, a
formal request to the Town Council will be made by the Town Manager at the next
Town Council meeting. The formal request will be in the form of a motion with
the aforementioned information included in the memo. The memo will also include
possible funding options available. If the request for funds is granted, the
Town Manager will issue a purchase order number to the department head for the
expenditure.
      (5)   If funds are available and there is no need to obtain approval from
the Town Council, the Town Manager will issue a purchase order number to the
department head for the expenditure.
      (6)   Once a P.O. Number is granted, the prescribed State Board of
Accounts form (General Form No. 98) will be completed and submitted to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, who is responsible for payment of such purchase orders.
      (7)   In accordance with the State Board of Accounts, the original
purchase order number will be given to the department head and it will be
handed to the vendor at the time of purchase.
      (8)   The purchase order number must appear on all invoices and claims or
original order prepared by the vendor.
      (9)   An itemized bill must accompany the voucher to the Town Manager
once delivery of said products and/or services is made. The Town Manager will
review all paperwork and prepare the claim for the Clerk-Treasurer for payment.
      (10)   It is to the advantage of all parties (department heads, Council
members, Town Manager and Town Clerk-Treasurer) to know at all times what
purchases have been entered into and how the appropriations stand, for purposes
of anticipating the year’s needs.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 34.06 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be amended from time to time by law, or supplemented
from time to time by ordinances adopted by the Town Council, and policies
adopted by the purchasing agency.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall act as purchasing agency for every board,
office and department. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the purchasing agent of the
town purchasing agency and may designate in writing any employee of the town as
a deputy purchasing agent.
(Ord. 98-12, passed 11-23-1998)
§ 34.07 PURCHASING POLICIES.
   The following are the purchasing rules for the town.
   (A)   Publication of notices. The purchasing agent shall schedule the
publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation
and submission of proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least
one week apart. The second publication must occur at least seven days prior to
the date the proposals will be opened.
      (1)   Invitation for bids. All notices of invitation for bids shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Anderson Herald Bulletin. The
purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The notice
will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second publication
must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be opened.
      (2)   Request for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall
be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Anderson Herald Bulletin. The
purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the proposals will
be opened.
      (3)   Request for specifications. All notices of request for
specifications shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Anderson
Herald Bulletin.
      (4)   Electronic notice. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
   (B)   Receiving offers.
      (1)   Opening of offers. Bids received in response to an invitation for
bids must be opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses
at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. Proposals received
in response to a request for proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure
of the contents to competing offerors during the process of negotiation.
Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may be opened as
specified in the request for specifications.
      (2)   Electronic receipt of offers. The purchasing agency may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals or
request for specifications. A purchasing agency may only receive an electronic
offer if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
      (3)   Correct and withdrawal of bids. An offeror may correct inadvertent
errors in a bid up to the time at which bids will be opened by supplementing
the erroneous bid and submitting a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an
inadvertently erroneous bid after the time at which the bids were opened. A
bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the time at which
bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours after the time
at which bids will be opened.
      (4)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town’s best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
   (C)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records.
      (1)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The Clerk-Treasurer of the
town or the purchasing agent who receives offers, shall retain all offers
received in a secure location prior to the date and time at which offers will
be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the opening
of the offers.
      (2)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened,
the purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
      (3)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made available for public inspection and copying
after the time of the bid opening, unless the bid opening is delayed, as
authorized in this section or any other statute or ordinance.
      (4)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a
register of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
   (D)   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals. The
purchasing agent may conduct discussions with parties who are submitting
proposals. Final offers may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit
proposals and are determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for
a contract award.
   (E)   Delay of openings of offer. When the Town Council makes a written
determination that is in the town’s best interest, offers may be opened after
the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time and place of the
rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the originally
scheduled opening.
   (F)   Evidence of financial responsibility.
      (1)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $25,000.
      (2)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may
include a requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial
responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a
bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated
cost of the purchase.
      (3)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the
purchase.
   (G)   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies. If the Town
Council determines that it is either not practicable or not advantageous to
purchase certain types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding, they shall
authorize the appropriate purchasing agent to receive proposals.
   (H)   Modification and termination of contracts.
      (1)   Price adjustments. Any purchasing agent for the town may include
provisions to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract; the following
provisions for price adjustments may be included:
         (a)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
         (b)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (c)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon; and
         (d)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contacting parties may mutually agree upon.
      (2)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may
include provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
      (3)   Unilateral rights of the town. The purchasing agent may include in
a purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the
purchasing agent, or the Town Council, to order changes in the work within the
scope of the contract or to order temporary work stoppage or delays in time of
performance.
      (4)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
   (I)   Small purchases. This section applies to all purchases which are
defined as small purchases under I.C. 5-22-8-2.
      (1)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost
of less than $5,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes.
      (2)   In the event the purchase is between $5,000 and $25,000, the
purchasing agent making the purchase shall receive prices either by phone, in
writing or in person from at least three suppliers.
      (3)   The purchasing agent shall keep a file for purchases made under
this section with the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and phone number of each supplier who provided
a price;
         (b)   The price provided by each supplier;
         (c)   The supplier chosen and the reason for the choice if the
supplier did not provide the lowest price; and
         (d)   The reasons why less than three suppliers were not contacted.
   (J)   Purchases between $25,000 and $75,000. 
      (1)   Purchases between $25,000 and $75,000 may be made by the purchasing
agent for the town by inviting quotes from at least three persons known to deal
in the lines or classes of supplies to be purchased. The purchasing agent shall
mail an invitation to quote to the persons described above at least seven days
before the time fixed for receiving quotations.
      (2)   If the purchasing agent receives a satisfactory quote, the
purchasing agent shall award the contract to the lowest responsible and
responsive offer for each line or class of supplies required, subject to
approval by the Town Council.
      (3)   The purchasing agent may reject all quotes.
      (4)   If the purchasing agent does not receive a quote from a responsible
and responsive offeror, the purchasing agent may make a special purchase
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-22-10-10.
   (K)   Purchases between $75,000 and $150,000. Purchases between $75,000 and
$150,000 may be made by the purchasing agent for the town utilizing the
invitation for bids procedure set out herein above.
   (L)   Alternate purchasing procedures. Nothing contained herein is intended
to infringe, in any way, on the ability of the town purchasing agent to make
purchases pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-22-10-1 et seq.
   (M)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town purchases and
shall be purchased unless the town determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the Untied States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparable priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (N)   Additional limits. Notwithstanding anything set forth above, the
following additional limits on purchasing authority of employees and department
heads of the town, are as follows:
 
Up to $500           Department heads may approve
Up to $2,000         Town Manager may approve
Up to $500           Town Manager and Town Council President may approve in
                     emergency situations
Up to $1,000         Town Marshal may approve
Over or above limits Town Council approval in advance
 
(Ord. 032315B, passed 4-13-2015; Ord. 082415, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 34.08 MATERIALITY AND PROCESS FOR REPORTING MATERIAL ITEMS.
   (A)   The Town Council endorses the Clerk-Treasurer’s declaration regarding
a policy on materiality and a process for reporting material items.
   (B)   The Town Council calls upon the Clerk-Treasurer and all town
officials, employees, and agents to enforce and comply with the policy on
materiality and process for reporting material items and to report noteworthy
items to the Town Council Oversight Committee or the full Town Council,
   (C)   The Town Council directs its Town Manager to monitor, as it deems
necessary, compliance with the policy on materiality and process for reporting
material items and report noteworthy items to the full Town Council.
   (D)   The Town Council asks the Clerk-Treasurer to advise the Town Council
of any changes in the policy on materiality and process for reporting material
items.
   (E)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of
the town subdivision funds or property, or funds or property the town holds in
trust, shall be reported to the Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee
promptly.
   (F)   It will be the policy of the Clerk-Treasurer to report to the State
Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or
thefts of cash in excess of $100, except for inadvertent clerical errors that
are identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the town.
   (G)   It will be the policy of the Clerk-Treasurer to report promptly to the
State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of non-cash items in excess of $100, estimated market
value, except for those resulting from inadvertent clerical errors or
misplacements that are identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to
the town, and except for losses from genuine accidents.
   (H)   All town elected officials are asked, and all town employees and
agents are directed, to comply with this policy, and the Town Council is asked
to endorse it.
(Ord. 050916A, passed 5-25-2016)
§ 34.09 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town finds that its mission as related to an internal control
system is as follows:
      (1)   Provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
      (2)   Provision of services as determined through the political process,
including, but not limited to police, fire, utilities, economic development,
parks, planning and zoning, building inspection, and code enforcement;
      (3)   Promotion of government efficiency, accountability, reliability and
transparency; and
      (4)   Promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, mismanagement or errors.
   (B)   The town finds that its interrelated and often overlapping objectives
as related to an internal control system are as follows:
      (1)   Operations objectives which involve the ways governmental services
are performed and the performance of those providing governmental services,
including by way of example, budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash management
and planning among others;
      (2)   Reporting objectives which involve the filing of financial and non-
financial information to those inside the government and those outside of the
government, including by way of example, filing the annual report, audit and
examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms and the
other filings with any governmental agency or official or information required
to be kept such as an OSHA log and responding to a public records request among
others; and
      (3)   Compliance objectives involve the adherence to law and regulations,
including by way of example following guidance documents such as the State
Board of Accounts’ manuals, bulletins, directives and the Department of Local
Government Finance’s forms and directions and including other outside of
government trainings and documents such as IACT among others.
   (C)   The town adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system that
includes the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency as described in the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions guidance document from the State Board of Accounts dated
September 2015 and as thereafter modified:
      (1)   Control environment;
      (2)   Risk assessment;
      (3)   Control activities;
      (4)   Information and communication; and
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (D)   The town adopts and directs the following principles in explanation of
the pertinent standards above be followed at all levels of the town government:
      (1)   Control environment:
         (a)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values;
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the town’s internal control system;
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the town’s objectives;
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop and
retain competent individuals; and
         (e)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment:
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances;
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives;
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks; and
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities:
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks;
         (b)   Management designs the town’s information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks; and
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication:
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town’s
objectives;
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives; and
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring:
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results; and
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (E)   The town adopts the internal control standards above so as to
establish an effective internal control system for the town through its design,
implementation and operation.
   (F)   The town directs that the above standards be used to design,
implement, operate and modify current operations, reporting and compliance
objectives that will safeguard the assets of the town, promote reliability,
accountability and transparency of financial and non-financial information and
to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office, department and
personnel (as defined below) for an effective and reasonable internal control
system of the town.
   (G)   The town authorizes the Town Council to review the current internal
control system of the town and adopt a policy for the future internal control
system to be effective after June 30, 2016 (although the State Board of
Accounts will not take audit exception as long as the minimum standards are
adopted between July 1 and the end of 2016) and perform an annual review, or
more if determined necessary for compliance with this section.
   (H)   The personnel, whether an official or employee, of the town whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, state
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity shall
comply with these minimum internal control standards and procedures and any
other policy regarding standards and procedures determined necessary by the
town now and as modified in the future.
   (I)   The personnel of the town whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the minimum internal
control standards and procedures and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the town and shall cooperate with the town fiscal
officer or designee so that the fiscal officer can timely certify to the State
Board of Accounts that the training was received annually by the personnel as
provided by law.
   (J)   The town authorizes the Town Council to determine the position and
person who are the personnel referred to in divisions (I) and (L) of this
section and notify such personnel.
   (K)   The Town Council will perform all internal control system activities
in conjunction with the duly elected Clerk-Treasurer, including creating an
internal control system policy.
   (L)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the town.
   (M)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation of town policy and may result in the
discipline, including termination, of the employee.
   (N)   An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
   (O)   This section may be implemented by any and all of the following
actions or such others as authorized by this Council:
      (1)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section; and/
or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
(Ord. 052316, passed 6-13-2016)
TOWN FUNDS
§ 34.20 BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   There is established a fund to be known as the Floyd Webb Memorial
Building Fund.
   (B)   Said fund may receive contributions from time to time.
   (C)   Said fund shall be used by the town towards the construction and/or
periodic remodeling of the Town Hall.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 34.21 FIRE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Fire Department Equipment Fund is hereby established for the
purpose of administering the proceeds from fond raising events and
contributions designated for the Town Volunteer Fire Department.
   (B)   It is, therefore, established by a unanimous vote of the Town Council
as follows.
      (1)   There is established a fund to be known as the Fire Department
Equipment Fund.
      (2)   Said fund may receive contributions from time to time and/or
proceeds from the Fire Department Fund raising events.
      (3)   Said fund shall be used by the Town Volunteer Fire Department
towards the Fire Department Equipment and/or periodic supplies for the Fire
Department.
      (4)   Proceeds and/or contributions for said fund shall be kept in
checking account with town funds.
      (5)   Said fund shall be non-reverting at year end and should only be
terminated if the Fire Department should become non-existent.
      (6)   If said fund should be terminated, then the present Town Council
shall at that time designate placement of the remaining funds.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 3-23-1998)
§ 34.22 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Council hereby creates the Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund.
   (B)   All distributions received from the Cumulative Capital Improvement
Fund of the Indiana Cigarette Tax Fund shall be deposited in the Cumulative
Capital Improvement Fund.
   (C)   Disbursements from the fund shall be made only for the construction or
improvement of town-owned property, including, but not limited to, highways,
alleys, sewers or thoroughfares. Disbursements may also be made to retire any
general obligation town bonds issued for the construction of improvements which
would qualify for the use of such funds.
   (D)   No funds shall revert to the Town General Fund, and no disbursements
shall be made from the Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund for the salaries of
any officials or employees of the town, except for expenses directly chargeable
to the improvements listed in division (C) above.
(1983 Code, § 36-9-16-3)
Statutory reference:
   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund, see I.C. 36-9-16-3
§ 34.23 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND RATE.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes a Cumulative Capital Development
Fund which is to be used for any lawful purpose set forth in I.C. 36-9-15.5.
   (B)   The Town Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5 and
the proposed tax rate for said fund will not exceed $0.05 on each $100 of
assessed valuation, said tax rate to be levied commencing with taxes for
calendar year 2017 payable in calendar year 2018.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall submit to the Department of Local Government
Finance of the state, a copy of the proof of publication of the public hearing
held on March 26, 2018, and a certified copy of this section, as provided by
law and said Cumulative Capital Development Fund shall be subject to approval
by the Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-27-2009; Ord. 031218, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 34.24 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby established a Rainy Day Fund to receive
transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general or special tax
levy on taxable property within the town whenever the purpose of such tax levy
has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance remains.
   (B)   Purpose. The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may be used for
the operation of the town and its various departments, when the town does not
have sufficient levies or funds to pay such costs, including, but not limited
to, salaries and wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment, capital
improvements, repairs and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfer. On or before December 31 of each year, the Town Council
shall determine the amount, if any, of any unused and unencumbered funds
available to be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, which transfer may not
exceed more than 10% of the town’s total budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations. The Town Council may authorize the expenditure of
funds from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as
other funds are appropriated that receive tax monies, upon making a finding
that the proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the fund.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 34.25 CASH MANAGEMENT CODE; CASH CHANGE FUND, PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   Cash Management Code. The purpose of this code is to provide authority
for the Town Clerk- Treasurer and Water Clerk to maintain a sufficient amount
of cash on hand to provide for the efficient and economical operation of their
respective functions while also providing accountability for periodic review.
   (B)   Water Company Cash Change Fund. The Town Water Clerk is authorized to
maintain a fund not to exceed $400, which funds shall be available for the sole
and exclusive purpose of making change for water customers with respect to the
payment of water company bills.
   (C)   Petty Cash Fund. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to maintain a
petty cash fund not to exceed $100, which funds shall be maintained by the
Clerk-Treasurer for the sole purpose of making change with respect to funds
paid to or on behalf of the town or for the purpose of paying for those items
incidental and necessary to the operation of the office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer as specifically budgeted and authorized by the Town Council.
(1983 Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Ord. 90-9, passed 11-12-1990; Ord. 2010-3, passed 7-
19-2011)
§ 34.26 CASH RESERVE FUND.
   The Cash Reserve Fund is hereby created.
(Res. 2012-4, passed 8-27-2012)
§ 34.27 TRASH COLLECTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Trash Collection Fund.
   (B)   The user fees collected in accordance with
Chapter 52 establishing fees and any amendments thereto are to be deposited in
said Fund with the revenues retained, accumulated, and used for improvements of
the trash collection utility system as permitted by I.C. 36-9-23 and as
directed by the Town Council.
   (C)   The Fund shall be established and administered in accordance with the
purpose set forth by the Town Council and in accordance with state law and
compliance with the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 111615A, passed 11-16-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Trash collection, see
Chapter 52
§ 34.28 DEPRECIATION AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   A separate special utility account, to be used and applied in the
extension, replacement in whole or in part, repair, and operation of the town’s
water utility, and to be known as the Depreciation and Replacement Fund, is
hereby established.
      (1)   Earnings from the town’s water utility remaining after:
         (a)   Payment of operation and maintenance expenses of the utility;
         (b)   Payment of the interest and principal on revenue bonds and
creation reserves for them;
         (c)   Payment of the interest and principal on general obligation
bonds and creation reserves for them bond and interest sinking fund; and
         (c)   Payment of assessed taxes.
      (2)   Payments shall be set aside in the Depreciation and Replacement
Fund, in amounts sufficient to provide for the extension, replacement in whole
or in part, repair, and operation of the town’s water utility.
   (B)   The Depreciation and Replacement Fund shall be hereafter known as Fund
603.
(Ord. 091018, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 34.29 FUND 404 (CASINO AND RIVERBOAT).
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to create and maintain Fund
404 for the deposit, management and distribution of all sums received from
riverboat and/or casino sources.
   (B)   Monies in this Fund can and will be used for any and all legal
purposes at the direction of the Council.
   (C)   This Fund shall be non-reverting and subject to all applicable state
laws and terms in place and any policy and procedure of the town, as well as
any future order of the Council.
   (D)   Monies in this Fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process
as other town funds that receive tax monies and other state monies.
(Ord. 062716, passed 6-27-2016)
CHAPTER 35: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
35.01   Creation; Violations Clerk
   
35.02   Payment of fines
   
35.03   Schedule of fines adopted
§ 35.01 CREATION; VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 33-36-2-1 et seq. and all acts amendatory or
supplemental thereto, there is hereby created an Ordinance Violations Bureau,
to be denominated the “Ingalls Ordinance Violations Bureau”.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town, and/or his or her appointed deputy,
shall be considered the Violations Clerk, having the duties and
responsibilities set forth under I.C. 33-36-2-3, including, but not limited to,
the ability to accept the following:
      (1)   Written appearances;
      (2)   Waivers of trial;
      (3)   Admissions of violations; and
      (4)   Payment of civil penalties up to $250 in ordinance violation cases.
(Ord. 2011-12, passed - -2011)
§ 35.02 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   (A)   A person who has been cited for violation one of the ordinances
designated by the Town Council may pay the amount designated by the Town
Council from time to time to the Town Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (B)   Failure to pay the penalty within 14 business days will result in an
action brought by the town to collect such greater penalties as are permitted
by the ordinance that is violated.
   (C)   The schedule of fines to be paid, pursuant to §
35.03, shall be all fines created by all ordinances within the code of
ordinances of the town, in existence as of October 1, 2012, all ordinances
amendatory or supplemental thereto, and any fines imposed by any subsequent
ordinance.
(Ord. 2011-12, passed - -2011)
§ 35.03 SCHEDULE OF FINES ADOPTED.
   The schedule of fines is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into
this code as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 2011-12, passed - -2011)
CHAPTER 36: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
36.01   Short title
   
36.02   Purpose
   
36.03   Definitions
   
36.04   Findings
   
36.05   Process of establishing a covered account
   
36.06   Access to covered account information
   
36.07   Credit card payments
   
36.08   Sources and types of red flags
   
36.09   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
36.10   Updating the program
   
36.11   Program administration
   
36.12   Outside service providers
   
36.13   Treatment of address discrepancies
   
36.14   Methods of confirming consumer addresses
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 36.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Identity Theft Prevention Program.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.02 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted to comply with the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act and federal regulations promulgated at 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 in
order to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft by identifying and
detecting identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a
manner that will prevent identity theft.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, utility account, checking account, or savings account; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefore.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes utility companies
and telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   NOTICE OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCY. A notice sent to a user by a consumer
reporting agency pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 1681(c)(h)(l), that informs the user
of a substantial difference between the address for the consumer that the user
provided to request the consumer report and the address(es) in the agency’s
file for the consumer.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information, bank account information, and drivers’
license information, and for a natural person, includes their social security
number, mother’s birth name, and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the town.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.04 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The town is a creditor pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 due to its
provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in
arrears.
   (B)   Covered accounts offered to customers for the provision of services
include water utility and stormwater utility, customers requiring any service
or record from the Town Marshal’s office, customers applying for the issuance
of any permit required by the town and any and all other creditors who may pay
their obligation to the town by means of electronic transmission.
   (C)   The town’s previous experience with identity theft related to covered
accounts is as follows: no known incidents.
   (D)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account, making payments on such accounts, and providing account
information, access in person or via phone or website have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (E)   The town limits access to personal identifying information to those
employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening or restoring covered
accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts. Information provided
to such employees is entered directly into the town’s computer system and is
not otherwise recorded.
   (F)   The town determines that there is a low risk of identity theft
occurring in the following ways (if any):
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer’s personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer’s
name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account, or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer’s covered account or accounts;
and
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer’s covered
account of another person’s credit card, bank account, or other method of
payment.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.05 PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   As a precondition to opening a covered account, each applicant shall provide
all applicable information including, but not limited to, name, address,
telephone number, owner of property and occupancy date with personal
identifying information of the customer. Such information shall be entered
directly into the town’s computer system and shall not otherwise be recorded.
Each account shall be assigned an account number and personal identification
number (PIN) which shall be unique to that account. The town may utilize
computer software to randomly generate assigned PINs and to encrypt account
numbers and PINs.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.06 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized personnel.
   (B)   Such password(s) shall be changed on a regular basis by each
individual user, shall be at least eight characters in length, and shall
contain letters, numbers and symbols.
   (C)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the Town Clerk-Treasurer and the password changed
immediately.
   (D)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential, (to the extent allowed by law) and any request or
demand for such information shall be immediately forwarded to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.07 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that credit card payments that are made over the Internet
are processed through a third party service provider, such third party service
provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention
program in place that is applicable to such payments.
   (B)   All credit card payments made over the telephone or the town’ website
shall be entered directly into the customer’s account information in the
computer data base.
   (C)   Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include
only the last four digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.08 SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account, or accepting payment for a
covered account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity
theft. Such red flags shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies or
service providers. Examples of such alerts are:
      (1)   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report;
      (2)   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer
report; or
      (3)   A notice of address discrepancy discovered through the County
Geographic Information System.
   (B)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered or
forged;
      (2)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description is
inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
      (3)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
      (4)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file, such as a signature card or a
recent check; or
      (5)   An application that appeal’s to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identifying information. Examples include:
      (1)   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with external
information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
the address does not match any address in the consumer report;
      (2)   Personal identifying information or a phone number or address, is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor;
      (3)   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address,
mail drop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity;
      (4)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other applicants
or customers;
      (5)   The address or telephone number provided is the same or similar to
the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number
of applicants or customers;
      (6)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete;
      (7)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor; or
      (8)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer-
report.
   (D)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
Examples include:
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an account,
there is a request for the addition of authorized users on the account;
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns, such as where the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments;
      (3)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account, such as nonpayment when there
is no history of late or missed payments;
      (4)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s account;
      (5)   The town is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements;
      (6)   The town is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer’s account; or
      (7)   The town is notified by a customer, law enforcement or another
person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity
theft.
   (E)   Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other reliable
sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to covered
accounts
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.09 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event that any employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the Town
Marshal’s Department. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that
identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, who may in his or her discretion determine that no further
action is necessary. If the Town Clerk-Treasurer in his or her discretion
determines that further action is necessary, one or more of the following
responses as determined to be appropriate by the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be
performed:
      (1)   Contact the customer;
      (2)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting the
customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed the
customer’s covered account:
         (a)   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes or other
security devices that permit access to an account; or
         (b)   Close the account;
      (3)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer and
decline to sell the customer’s account to a debt collector in the event that
the customer’s account has been accessed without authorization and such access
has caused additional charges to accrue;
      (4)   Notify law enforcement in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer’s account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; or
      (5)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   In the event that an employee responsible for or involved in opening a
new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity
theft with respect to an application for a new account, such employee shall use
his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red
flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the Town
Marshal’s Department. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that
identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, who may in his or her discretion, determine that no further
action is necessary. If the Town Clerk-Treasurer, in his or her discretion,
determines that further action is necessary, one or more of the following
responses as determined to be appropriate by the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be
performed:
      (1)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
      (2)   Deny the application for the new account;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
      (4)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.10 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   (A)   the town shall annually review and, as deemed necessary, update the
identity theft prevention program along with any relevant red flags in order to
reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the
town and its covered accounts from identity theft.
   (B)   In so doing, the town shall consider the following factors and
exercise its discretion in amending the program:
      (1)   The town experiences with identity theft;
      (2)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      (3)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate
identity theft;
      (4)   Updates in the types of accounts that the town offers or maintains;
and
      (5)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.11 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for oversight of the program
and for program implementation. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for
reviewing reports prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag
requirements and with recommending material changes to the program, as
necessary in the opinion of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, to address changing
identity theft risks and to identify new or discontinued types of covered
accounts. Any recommended material changes to the program shall be submitted to
Town Manager.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer will report to Town Manager at least annually
on compliance with the red flag requirements. The report shall be due no later
than December 31 each year and shall address material matters related to the
program and evaluate issues, including but not limited to:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the program policies and procedures in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for providing training to all
employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account,
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the identity
theft prevention program. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall exercise his or her
discretion in determining the amount and substance of training necessary.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.12 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the town engages a service provider to perform an activity
in connection with one or more covered accounts, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such arrangements in order to
ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the service provider’s
activities are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed
upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in
the performance of the service provider’s activities, and take appropriate
steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.13 TREATMENT OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES.
   In the event that the town receives a notice of address discrepancy, the
employee responsible for verifying consumer addresses for the purpose of
providing the service or account sought by the consumer shall compare the
information in the consumer report with:
   (A)   Information the town obtains and uses to verify a consumer’s identity
in accordance with the requirements of the customer information program rules
implementing 31 U.S.C. § 5318(1);
   (B)   Information the town maintains in its own records, such as
applications for service, change of address notices, other customer account
records or tax records;
   (C)   Information the town obtains from third-party sources that are deemed
reliable by the relevant employee; or
   (D)   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 36.14 METHODS OF CONFIRMING CONSUMER ADDRESSES.
   The employee charged with confirming consumer addresses may, in his or her
discretion, confirm the accuracy of an address through one or more of the
following methods:
   (A)   Verifying the address with the consumer;
   (B)   Reviewing the town records to verify the consumer’s address;
   (C)   Verifying the address through third party sources; or
   (D)   Using other reasonable processes.
(Ord. 030915, passed 3-23-2015)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   STORMWATER
      
52.   UNIFORM MUNICIPAL UTILITY BILLING PROGRAM
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Reserved
   
50.02   Connection to waterworks required; wells
   
50.03   Definitions
   
50.04   Reserved
   
50.05   Reserved
   
50.06   Leaks
   
50.07   Taps
   
50.08   Meters
   
50.09   Miscellaneous
   
50.10   Reserved
   
50.11   Office occupancy expense
   
50.12   Reserved
   
50.13   Capacity fee
   
50.14   Removal of town’s water utility from jurisdiction of State Utility
Regulatory Commission
   
50.15   Fall Creek Regional Waste District; disconnection
Water Standards
   
50.30   Forward
   
50.31   Abbreviations
   
50.32   Definitions
   
50.33   Record drawings
   
50.34   Excavation, trench safety and dust control
   
50.35   Surface replacement and site restoration
   
50.36   Inspection, testing and acceptance
   
50.37   Domestic water distribution system
   
50.38   Details
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 RESERVED.
§ 50.02 CONNECTION TO WATERWORKS REQUIRED; WELLS.
   (A)   Whenever the town’s municipal waterworks system is available to
property located within the town’s service territory, the owner of any such
property shall connect to and utilize the town’s waterworks system and pay the
associated connection costs and monthly user rates upon receipt of a written
notice issued by the Town Water Superintendent that such connection is
required.
   (B)   Except for the watering of lawns, the filling of pools or the washing
of vehicles, all private wells must be permanently abandoned upon connection to
the town’s municipal waterworks system in a manner consistent with the American
Water Association Standards.
   (C)   So long as the town’s municipal waterworks are available to the
property, no new wells may be drilled by any person or firm within the town,
regardless of whether the proposed well would serve property inside or outside
the town’s corporate limits, and regardless of the purpose for which the well
water is intended.
   (D)   So long as the town’s municipal waterworks are available to the
property, any work, repair, modification or addition to or upon any existing
well shall be deemed construction of a new well and is hereby prohibited and
connection to the town’s municipal waterworks system is required.
   (E)   Monies paid on or after January 1, 2011, by well users not connected
to the town’s municipal waterworks system will be promptly refunded to them.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed - -2012)
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC RATE. The lowest charge for the use of water.
   COMPANY. The town public water system and those owners outside the town
serviced by the water system and under the authority of the Council.
   METER. The device for measuring the number of gallons of water used by the
property attached to the town water system.
   TAP. The connection onto the water main on the town.
   USER. Those who are attached to the public water system or who are subject
to Ord. 1986-19.
(1983 Code, § 36-9-2-1(a))
§ 50.04 RESERVED.
§ 50.05 RESERVED.
§ 50.06 LEAKS.
   If there is a leak in the water line, the company shall be responsible for
the repair costs only for those lines on the town’s side of the meter. The user
shall be responsible for all the leaks that are on the user’s side of the
meter. The amount of water used according to the meter shall be the obligation
of the user, unless the measurement is based on a faulty meter or on the
company’s side of the meter.
(1983 Code, § 36-9-2-1(f))
§ 50.07 TAPS.
   (A)   All taps onto the water line shall be made under the direct
supervision of the company. All applications for new water service shall be
made to the Clerk-Treasurer. A charge for each tap shall be levied at the time
of the tap. The charge shall be based on the cost incurred by the company, but
not be less than $250.
   (B)   There shall be a separate tap for each lot and shall not be more than
one house on one meter. The property owner shall disconnect the residence water
supply from any well at the time the property is attached to the company’s
system. The company shall inspect and approve the tap at each residence prior
to the actual use of the company’s water.
(1983 Code, § 36-9-2-1(g))
§ 50.08 METERS.
   (A)   The water meter shall be installed outside in tiles and in locations
which the company selects. The position of the meter shall be determined by the
company. The company may refuse to locate a meter or to provide service to
anyone.
   (B)   The company may, at any reasonable time, inspect all service pipes,
water lines and fixture inside the user’s property and premises.
   (C)   The meter, meter pit, meter valve and meter yoke are property of the
town water company. No person shall open, access or change, in any way, the
water pit for any reason unless authorized by the Town Water Superintendent.
Only employees of the town water company are authorized to turn water on or off
at the meter. Any person found to have violated this section shall be
responsible for any and all damage caused to town water company property, or a
fine of $250, whichever is greater.
   (D)   If a meter fails, the company may bill the user at a rate based on an
average use for the previous six months or the previous months if the user has
not been a customer for six months.
   (E)   The meter, meter pit, meter valve and meter yoke are owned by the town
water company. No person shall open, gain access or in any way change the water
pit for any reason unless authorized by the Town Water Superintendent. Water
shall be turned off at the meter by Water Department employees only and not by
customer or any other person. Any water apparatus operated by a person other
than a water employee, owner or leaser of property shall be held financially
responsible for any and all damages or a fine of not less than $250, whichever
is greater.
(1983 Code, § 36-9-2-1(h)) (Ord. 2011-4, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 50.09 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   No person shall take water from any fire hydrant without written
authorization by the company, except for firefighting purposes.
   (B)   If the Clerk-Treasurer shall demand payment in advance from any
temporary user, in an amount based on the estimated water to be supplied, this
sum shall be paid before any connections are made. The user shall be by meter.
(1983 Code, § 36-9-2-1(i)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 RESERVED.
§ 50.11 OFFICE OCCUPANCY EXPENSE.
   (A)   The town shall provide the municipal water utility with non exclusive
use of a portion of the Town Hall and shall be solely responsible for all
utility expense incidental thereto.
   (B)   The town’s municipal water utility shall reimburse the town for a
portion of the expense of the operation and maintenance in the Town Hall
related to its use and occupancy of such premises.
   (C)   The municipal water utility shall reimburse the town, at the monthly
rate of $185, commencing January 1, 1991, and the first of each month
thereafter and shall additionally also reimburse the town for 8.3% of any
actual out of pocket expenses incurred for repairs, maintenance or improvements
to that Town Hall facility.
(1983 Code, § 36-9-2-1(k))
§ 50.12 RESERVED.
§ 50.13 CAPACITY FEE.
   (A)   In addition to any other fees or charges paid to the municipal
waterworks to establish a waterworks connection, any new user requesting a new
connection to the town’s municipal waterworks shall pay a capacity charge of
$1,300 per residential equivalent dwelling unit (“EDU”) except that any
existing structure within the corporate boundaries of the town as of the date
of the adoption of this section shall pay a capacity fee of $650 per
residential equivalent dwelling unit. The water capacity charge constitutes a
new user’s payment towards the cost of the facilities of the town’s municipal
waterworks by taking into account the cost of such facilities of the town’s
municipal waterworks and the allocation of such costs based upon EDUs. The
number of EDUs attributable to each category of user is established in division
(C) below.
   (B)   If an existing user of the municipal waterworks changes its use
resulting in a different amount of EDUs attributable to such existing user, the
existing user shall pay a capacity charge equal to the difference between a
capacity charge based on the existing user’s classification of EDU usage and. a
capacity charge based upon the new classification of EDU usage.
   (C)   One EDU is equivalent to the estimated average daily water usage for a
standard single family residence served by a five-eighths to three-quarter inch
meter connection to the town’s municipal waterworks. For purposes of
determining the estimated EDUs for all users, the following table shall apply:
Meter Size EDUs
Meter Size              EDUs
5/8-inch meter          1.0
3/4-inch meter          1.0
1-inch meter            2.5
1-1/2-inch meter        5.8
2-inch meter            10.0
3-inch meter            23.0
4-inch meter or greater 40.0
 
   (D)   All capacity charges collected by the town under this section shall be
used for items of future capital improvement projects or debt retirement.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 50.14 REMOVAL OF THE TOWN’S WATER UTILITY FROM JURISDICTION OF STATE UTILITY
REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   The municipality owned water utility of the town shall be, and is hereby
removed from the jurisdiction of the State Utility Regulatory Commission for
the approval of rates and charges and of the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes
or other evidence of indebtedness.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 5-24-2004)
§ 50.15 FALL CREEK REGIONAL WASTE DISTRICT; DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   As stated in I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d), the town will shut off water service
to a property/building upon notice from the District that the property is at
least 30 days delinquent in sewer fees and due for disconnection, and will turn
service back on at the district’s request when the sewer account is paid in
full.
   (B)   Fall Creek will pay the town $75 for each property that Ingalls shuts
the water off at Fall Creek’s request. Fall Creek will provide notice to the
property owner before disconnection as stated in I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(e).
   (C)   Either Fall Creek or the town can ask to review and reconsider the
agreement in January of any year.
   (D)   The town and Fall Creek Regional Waste District (FCRWD) have entered
into an agreement by which the Town Water Department agrees to disconnect water
service for nonpayment of sewage, the following policies and procedures shall
be followed:
      (1)   FCRWD agrees to do the following:
         (a)   Sewer bill must be more than 30 days in arrears before water can
be disconnected;
         (b)   Provide the Town Water Clerk a list including the name and
address for each service to be disconnected;
         (c)   Provide said list to the Town Water Clerk before 12:00 noon on
or around the 15th day of each month. (Date can be changed upon agreement by
both parties);
         (d)   Provide a tag that will be delivered to each service to be
disconnected. The tag must contain the reason the water was disconnected,
instructions for having their service restored and a phone number to discuss
their account. Tag color cannot be blue or white;
         (e)   Provide the Town Water Clerk a list of services to be re-
connected once payment is made to FCRWD; and
         (f)   Agrees to pay the Town Water Department $75 for each address on
the list.
      (2)   The Town Water Department agrees to the following:
         (a)   Once the list is received from FCRWD, water service will be
disconnected within the same business day;
         (b)   Hang a tag provided by FCRWD at each service to be disconnected;
         (c)   Lock off the service or remove meter in order to prevent theft;
         (d)   Restore service within 24 hours after notification by FCRWD
provided service was not also disconnected due to non-payment for water; and
         (e)   Send an invoice to FCRWD for each address on the list.
   (3)   Special circumstances:
         (a)   All disconnects are at the sole discretion of the Town Water
Superintendent
         (b)   Customers on a “disconnect ban” such as those on dialysis or
other special needs, will not be disconnected.
         (c)   If a meter is inaccessible or the weather is too severe to
safely disconnect service, FCRWD will be notified immediately so they can make
other arrangements.
         (d)   If service is scheduled to be disconnected due to non-payment
for sewer and has already been disconnected due to non-payment for water,
service will not be restored until both water and sewer bills are paid. All
disconnect/reconnect fees apply to both entities and Town Water Department is
entitled to be compensated $75 from FCRWD.
         (e)   At no time will any town water personnel be asked or authorized
to accept any type of payment or make any arrangements to avoid disconnection
of service.
         (f)   Tap fees, capacity fees or other non-service related fees will
not be eligible for this program. No service will be disconnected on a weekend
or legal holiday except for emergencies.
         (g)   There will be an additional $50 fee for all service requests
after normal business hours.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2011)
WATER STANDARDS
§ 50.30 FORWARD.
   (A)   The enclosed standard construction details and specifications are
provided to outline the town’s minimum standards for water construction. All
infrastructure projects which are to connect to or become part of the town’s
system shall conform to these standards. Construction drawings and
specifications must be approved by the town and a written permit obtained in
accordance with existing ordinances prior to the start of construction.
   (B)   The owner/developer is responsible for obtaining required permits and
approvals from all applicable and associated governing agencies.
   (C)   Construction observation shall be provided by the town to assure
compliance with these standards. A minimum of 48 hours’ notice shall be given
prior to starting construction. The contractor is responsible for notifying
applicable utilities to request locating services.
   (D)   These standards were prepared with the intent of obtaining the highest
quality of construction possible and are consistent with accepted industry
practices. The standards may be revised and updated from time to time in order
to incorporate new materials and construction methods.
   (E)   Copies of the standards may be obtained from the Town Hall, which is
located at 247 N. Meridian Street, Ingalls, Indiana 46048-0277, telephone
number 317-485-4321 during regular office hours.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.31 ABBREVIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following abbreviations shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASTM. American Society of Testing and Materials.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   AWWA. American Water Works Association.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   ASME. American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
   ACI. American Concrete Institute.
   AREA. American Railway Engineers Association.
   NEMA. National Electrical Manufacturers Association.
   INDOT. Indiana Department of Transportation.
   OSHA. Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act.
   WPCF. Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTANCE. The formal written acceptance by the town of an entire project
which has been completed in all respects in accordance with the approved plans,
specifications and these standards including any previously approved
modifications.
   ANNEXATION. The inclusion of additional property into the corporate limits
by proper legal procedures.
   BACKFILL. Earth and/or other material used to replace material removed from
trenches during construction which is above the pipe bedding.
   BEDDING. The portion of the trench backfill which encases the sewer pipe to
a minimum depth above and below the bell/barrel of the pipe, as provided in §
50.37(K), for the purpose of properly supporting the pipe.
   BUILDING SEWER (LATERAL). The conduit for transporting waste discharged from
the building to the public sewer commencing three feet outside the building
walls and ending at and exclusive of the wye or tee fitting at the connection
to the public sewer.
   CONTRACTOR. Any contractor who meets the town’s requirements to perform the
work of installing sewers under the town’s jurisdiction.
   COUNTY. The County of Madison, State of Indiana.
   EASEMENT. Easements are areas along the line of all public water mains which
are outside of dedicated water or road easements or rights-of-way, and are
recorded and dedicated to the town granting rights along the line of the water
main. EASEMENTS shall be exclusively for water mains and no other utilities
shall be constructed or encroach upon the easement except with the expressed
written approval of the town.
   ENGINEER. The engineer for the owner or the town.
   GOVERNING AGENCY/BODIES. Governing Agency having jurisdiction due to
location or type of work being performed. Includes at a minimum the town, and
applicable state agencies such, as the Indiana Department of Transportation
(INDOT), IDEM and the like.
   INSPECTOR. A representative of the town assigned to make detailed inspection
of any or all portions of the work and materials. The INSPECTOR has full
authority to reject materials and/or any portion of the work not supplied and
installed in accordance with these standards and to stop work if the work is
not proceeding in accordance with these standards.
   OTHER SPECIFICATIONS AND MATERIALS. Wherever in these Standards other
specifications or regulations are mentioned, it shall be understood that the
materials and methods mentioned therewith shall conform to all requirements of
the latest revision of the specifications so mentioned.
   OWNER. Any individual, partnership, firm, corporation or other entity who,
as property owner, is initiating the work.
   PERMITS. Clearance to perform specific work under specific conditions at
specific locations. The owner or his or her duly authorized representative
shall furnish to the town all necessary plans and documents required by the
town to make application for PERMITS.
   PLANS. Construction plans, including system maps, water plans, cross
sections, utility plans, detailed drawings and the like, or reproductions
thereof, approved or to be approved by the town and the Town Area Plan
Commission, which show location, character, dimensions and details of the work
to be done.
   RECORD DRAWING (AS-BUILTS). Plans certified, signed and dated by a
professional engineer registered in the state, indicating that the plans have
been reviewed and revised, if necessary, to accurately show all as-built
construction and installation details including, but not limited to, key
elevations, locations and distances. Computer files as specified in §
50.33 are required.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. All land or interest therein which by deed, conveyance,
agreement, easement, dedication or process of law is reserved for or dedicated
to the use of the general public, within which the town shall have the right to
install and maintain public utilities.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying wastewater (sanitary sewer), storm
water (storm sewer) or a combination of both (combined sewer).
   STANDARD DRAWINGS. The drawings of structures, sanitary sewer lines or
devices commonly used and referred to on the plans and in these standards.
   STANDARDS. The standards for design and construction within the town area as
contained herein and all subsequent additions, deletions or revisions.
   TEN STATE STANDARDS. Recommended Standards for Sewage Works, latest edition,
developed by the Committee of the Great Lakes - Upper Mississippi River board
of State Sanitary Engineers.
   TOWN. The Town of Ingalls, the Town Council, or any duly authorized official
acting on its behalf.
   UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE. The Uniform Plumbing Code adopted by the
International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, current
edition.
   WORK. All the work to be done under town’s permit, in accordance with the
approved plans, specifications, these standards and permit conditions.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.33 RECORD DRAWINGS.
   (A)   The project designer shall furnish to the town one set of as-built
Mylar drawings and one set of computer files on compact disc in AutoCAD “.DXF”
and “.DWG” format for all projects dedicated to the town and for all multi-
family, industrial and commercial sites five acres and larger. All sheets shall
have “Record Drawing” boldly printed on them with the date, stamp and signature
of the professional design engineer, who must be registered in the state.
Drawings and computer files shall clearly differentiate between the original
design and changes made to the design during the construction process. Each
disk shall be labeled with project name, property name and date. Any auxiliary
design program data files shall also be included and required subdirectory file
structure and path relationships shall be maintained. All files shall be in
readable format but shall be write protected. If auxiliary lettering fonts
(fonts not supplied with standard AutoCAD Program) are used, then all necessary
data files to support, import and utilize the applied fonts shall be included
on the disk(s). An ASCII text file README.TXT shall be included in the files
supplied. This file shall describe all files on the disk(s). This shall include
creating program names, versions and all other necessary details to allow the
town to fully understand and utilize the data files.
   (B)   At a minimum, the following information shall be provided on the
plans:
      (1)   Building pad elevations, if applicable;
      (2)   Structure elevations, pipe sizes and types fitting description,
blocking details, hydrants, valves; and
      (3)   Horizontal alignment of pipes, valves, hydrants and structures to a
minimum accuracy of more or less than one foot.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.34 EXCAVATION, TRENCH SAFETY AND DUST CONTROL.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   This section provides for all surface removal, excavation and
disposal of surplus material within the public right-of-way, trench safety
system and dust control.
      (2)   Trench safety is a key and vital issue and owners should take the
necessary steps to ensure that the contractor they use to construct infra-
structure has included trench safety construction techniques and safety systems
in the cost proposal.
      (3)   All trenches or excavations shall be backfilled to the original
surface of the ground or such other grades as shown on the design plans or as
directed. In general, the backfilling shall be carried along as speedily as
possible and as soon as the concrete, mortar and/or other masonry work and pipe
joints have sufficient strength to resist the imposed load without damage.
   (B)   Surface removal (within public right-of-way).
      (1)   For construction of utilities as indicated on the approved plans
within the public right-of-way, the contractor shall remove the surface
materials only to such widths as will permit a trench to be safely excavated,
affording sufficient room for proper efficiency and proper construction. Where
sidewalks, driveways, pavements, curb and/or gutters are encountered, care
shall be taken to protect such against fracture or disturbance beyond
reasonable working limits. All pavements shall be cut with an abrasive saw and
concrete streets, driveways, walks, alleys and the like cut to the nearest
joint, and as required by the design plans and the governing bodies. Any areas
damaged during construction shall be re-sawed to provide a clean surface for
rehabilitation.
      (2)   Excavated topsoil shall be stored in a designated location as
approved by the governing bodies. The topsoil shall be protected in such a
manner as to ensure the preservation of its quality. The topsoil shall be
inspected by the town and/or the county personnel before being backfilled in
the work.
   (C)   Trench safety system. 
      (1)   The contractor and the owner are responsible for ensuring that safe
working conditions exist and safety procedures are being followed at the work
site. The contractor shall also be responsible for notifying the Indiana
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (IOSHA), State Department of
Labor and all other applicable governmental agency requirements.
      (2)   The town and/or county’s inspector is not responsible for policing
the contractor’s safety program. If, in the opinion of the observer, an unsafe
condition is noted, he or she will notify the contractor of this condition and
report it to the owner. If the condition continues to exist the observer shall
notify the owner, document the unsafe condition in writing and/or through a
photograph, and leave the job site. The town and/or county officials may
contact IOSHA and request that they dispatch an inspector immediately.
      (3)   Regarding trench safety systems, the contractor shall design,
install and maintain a “Trench Safety Program” in strict compliance with OSHA
(Occupational Safety and Health Administration) Part 1926 of the Code of
Federal Regulations and all other applicable federal, state and local
regulations The contractor shall be responsible to continuously upgrade the
Trench Safety Program with changing governmental regulations.
   (D)   Dust control. The contractor shall be responsible for maintaining the
site and adjoining paved surfaces in a dust free condition. Fugitive dust
control is the sole responsibility of the contractor.
   (E)   Magnetic locator wire. All PVC or non-metallic utilities shall be
installed with a #12 locator wire installed on top of the pipe.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.35 SURFACE REPLACEMENT AND SITE RESTORATION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   This section pertains to the restoration of areas within the public
right-of-way and/or acquired easements where infra-structure is being
constructed. Surface restoration within the site being developed is per the
direction of the owner.
      (2)   When the construction is complete, remove all surplus material and
rubbish from the site or work. The portion of the surface disturbed by
construction shall be rebuilt to as good condition as it was before the
commencement of the work. The project site shall be promptly and regularly
maintained. The contractor shall be responsible for repairs of unsatisfactory
trench backfilling or other unsatisfactory contracted services.
   (B)   Pavement, curb and gutter replacements.
      (1)   In all streets, alleys or other areas that are to be paved, all
backfilling shall be well compacted by hand held mechanical compaction machines
per the requirements of the Indiana Department of Highways and all other
governing bodies. After the trench or excavation has been backfilled, the
subgrade for the new paving, curb and/or curb and gutter shall be further
compacted by rolling the backfill at subgrade elevation. After examination of
the backfill and subgrade compaction by the reviewing agencies, the pavement,
curb and/or curb and gutter shall be replaced. Pavement and drive patch details
are shown on details in §
50.38, Details 5F through 5J.
      (2)   All pavements, curbs and/or gutters shall be replaced with the same
materials as that removed in accordance with the latest revisions of standards
of the State Department of Highways, the county or these Standards, whichever
is applicable.
   (C)   Traffic control.
      (1)   The contractor shall maintain vehicular and pedestrian traffic
during all paving operations, as required per the permit.
      (2)   The contractor shall provide flagmen, barricades and warning signs
for the safe and expedient movement of traffic through construction zones
within the right-of-way. This shall be in accordance with the principles and
standards in the Indiana Department of Transportation, Standard Specifications,
latest revision.
   (D)   Lawn and grass area replacement.
      (1)   All lawn and grass areas disturbed or damaged during construction
shall be restored to original or better condition. Backfills, fills and
embankments shall be brought to a subgrade level six inches below finished
grade. When subgrades have settled, topsoil shall be placed to a finished depth
of at least six inches, fine raked and prepared for seeding.
      (2)   If the backfill, fill or embankment material is sand, an eight-inch
layer of clay furnished by the contractor at his or her expense shall be spread
over the subgrade and thoroughly mixed into the sand subgrade. The clay shall
be mixed into the sand subgrade, then leveled and smoothed. Topsoil shall be
placed and spread to a finished depth of at least two inches, and fine raked.
      (3)   Commercial fertilizer 6-12-12 or equal shall be uniformly spread
over the topsoil by a mechanical spreader and mixed into the soil for a depth
of two inches on areas to be seeded. This shall be done at least 48 hours
before the sowing of any seed at the rate of 35 pounds per thousand square
feet. The area shall then be lightly raked or harrowed until the surface of the
finished grade is smooth, loose and pulverized.
      (4)   Then, the grass seed shall be sown by a mechanical seeder, and
lightly raked into the surface or sown with a standard agricultural drill. The
seeded areas shall be thoroughly watered with a fine spray in such a manner as
not to wash out the seed. The contractor shall use care in raking in order to
avoid disturbance of the finished grade and seed distribution.
      (5)   Seeding shall be done only within the seasons extending from August
15 to October 15, and from April 1 to June 1, unless otherwise permitted by the
governing agencies.
      (6)   The contractor must submit a seed mixture certificate to the
governing agencies before using. Grass seed shall be sown at the rate of not
less than three pounds per thousand square feet and shall consist of the
following mixture: 35 parts Kentucky Bluegrass 30 parts Perennial Rye 30 parts
Kentucky 31 Fescue 5 parts inert matter. Hydro seeding shall be done in
accordance with the Indiana Department of Transportation Specifications, latest
revision.
   (E)   Mulching. Adequate mulching material following seeding and fertilizing
shall be applied, followed by cultipacking; mulch shall consist of:
      (1)   Dry straw or hay of good quality and at the rate of two and one-
half tons per acre;
      (2)   Wood cellulose or cane fiber mulch at a rate of 1,000 pounds per
acre;
      (3)   A combination of good quality dry straw or hay free of seeds of
competing plants at a rate of two and one-half tons per acre and wood cellulose
or cane fiber mulch at a rate of 500 pounds per acre; or
      (4)   Manufactured mulch materials such as soil retention blankets,
erosion control netting or others that may be required on special areas of high
water concentration or unstable soils. When these materials are used, follow
the manufacturer’s recommendation for installation. The seeded area shall be
watered, maintained and patched as directed by the governing agency until the
contractor’s work is completed and accepted.
   (F)   Stand of grass.
      (1)   The contractor shall be required to establish a satisfactory stand
of grass to be full coverage without bare spots. This is not required for areas
subject to agricultural activities.
      (2)   Within one year after work completion, the contractor shall be
required to correct any defective work, such as bare spots in grass coverage,
erosion, gullies and the like in a timely manner upon notification.
   (G)   Sodding.
      (1)   The areas to be sodded shall be as shown on the plans and as
required by the governing agencies.
      (2)   The use of sod shall be in accordance with the State Department of
Highway Specifications, latest revision. At a minimum, sod shall be fibrous,
well rooted bluegrass or other approved sod, with the grass cut to a height of
not more than three inches. Edges of sod shall be cleanly cut either by hand or
machine, to a uniform thickness of not less than one and one-half inches, to a
uniform width of not less than 16 inches, and in strips of not less than three
feet in length.
      (3)   Sod shall be free from all primary noxious weeds as defined by the
State Seed Law, being I.C. 15-15-1 et seq.
      (4)   Remediation of soils intended for agricultural use shall include
the application of necessary macro and micro nutrients, including lime and
organic material to return the soil to near pre-construction condition.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.36 INSPECTION, TESTING AND ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   This section describes the minimum requirements and general
procedures for the inspection and testing of domestic water systems to be
dedicated to the town.
      (2)   Water systems shall not be accepted nor will connection permits be
issued until all requirements for inspection and testing, including the filing
of affidavits and any other paperwork are completed. The contractor is
responsible for notifying applicable utilities prior to construction to request
locating services and verify utility locations.
      (3)   Any section of infra-structure not passing the tests prescribed
herein shall be repaired to the satisfaction and approval of the town, and then
retested and reinspected at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   Inspection cost and fees. Inspection of the construction shall occur
throughout installation of the system and prior to the backfilling of the
utilities.
      (1)   General. Prior to the issuance of a construction permit and the
commencement of construction, the owner shall make arrangements with the town,
and the county, if applicable, for construction inspection services to be
provided.
      (2)   Estimated cost.
         (a)   If inspector services are required by the town, a letter shall
be sent to the owner, stating the estimated amount of payment for inspection
services to be rendered by representatives of the town. The amount provided in
the letter shall be 75% of the total estimated cost of the inspection services
based on an estimated project completion time and approved construction plans.
The owner shall be responsible for fees associated with the county
independently. Where a pumping station is involved, additional time for the
inspection during construction and final checkout of the station shall be
added.
         (b)   The inspection cost is a pre-construction estimate only. The
actual observation time will vary from project to project and may exceed or be
less than this estimate based upon actual project duration. Observation time at
the site is verified by the contractor and/or a representative of the owner.
Deviations from approved construction documents or owner established schedules
that create the necessity of additional inspection, shall be at the owner’s
expense.
         (c)   Seventy-five percent of the cost shall be remitted prior to
issuance of a construction permit. The balance of the cost for observation
services, based on total actual observation hours, shall be paid prior to the
town’s acceptance of the system.
      (3)   Inspection scheduling.
         (a)   The contractor and/or owner shall provide notice to the town of
the planned commencement of construction at least two weeks prior to such
commencement.
         (b)   Once the construction starts, the contractor shall be
responsible for informing and/or notifying the Inspector assigned of the
following:
            1.   Daily work schedule including any changes in schedule;
            2.   Prior notification if work is to be performed on weekends and/
or holidays;
            3.   Date tests are to be performed; and
            4.   Date as-built verification is to be performed.
         (c)   The town, upon written request of the contractor and/or owner,
will schedule the final inspection.
         (d)   All testing required shall be performed under the observation of
the town’s and/or the county’s inspector(s). It shall be the contractor’s
responsibility to schedule the testing with the inspection(s). Test results
obtained in the absence of the presence of the town’s representative will not
be accepted.
      (4)   Inspection of service connections.
         (a)   A connection permit shall be obtained for any repair,
modification or connection of a building sewer or water line to a public
utility. Connection permits shall not be issued for connections to sanitary
sewers or water distribution systems not yet dedicated to and accepted by the
town.
         (b)   Following the installation/repair/modification and prior to the
backfilling of the service line, the contractor/plumber shall notify the town
that the service line is ready to be inspected. The town shall then have 24
hours to make the inspection after which the contractor/plumber may backfill
the trench. Inspections requested on Fridays or on a day proceeding a holiday
may not be completed until the next normal business day.
         (c)   If notification is not provided and the building sewer is
backfilled prior to inspection, at the town’s request the contractor/plumber
shall be required to re-excavate the trench so that an inspection can be made.
         (d)   Protection of open trenches and compliance with applicable OSHA
Standards is the responsibility of the contractor/plumber.
      (5)   Final grade. Manholes, water meters, fire hydrants and the like
shall be properly set at final grade. Costs associated with raising or lowering
due to grade changes will be charged to the contractor.
   (C)   Domestic watermain disinfection and testing.
      (1)   All domestic water lines will be pressure tested with the town’s
inspector present. The owner/contractor shall notify the town’s Water
Department at least 72 hours in advance of testing. The contractor shall
provide all equipment necessary for the testing.
      (2)   Each section of pipe shall pass a pressure and leakage test in
accordance with the most recent requirements of AWWA Standard C600-93, § 4.1,
Pressure and Leakage Test.
      (3)   Thrust blocks, if used, shall have been in place for not less than
ten days prior to testing lines.
         (a)   Test restrictions.
            1.   Test pressure shall not be less than one and one-half times
the working pressure at the lowest point along the test section, or 100 psi,
whichever is greater, but shall not exceed the pipe, fitting or thrust-
restraint design pressures at any point. Test pressure shall not vary by more
than +5 psi for the duration of the test.
            2.   Valves shall not be operated in either direction at
differential pressure exceeding the rated valve working pressure. Use of a test
pressure greater than the rated valve pressure can result in trapped test
pressure between the gates of a double-disc gate valve. For tests at these
pressures, the test setup should include provisions, independent of the valve,
to reduce the line pressure to the rated valve pressure on completion of the
test. The valve can then be opened enough to equalize the trapped pressure with
the line pressure, or opened fully if desired.
            3.   Test pressure shall not exceed the rated pressure of the
valves when the pressure boundary of the test section included closed,
resilient-seated gate valves, or butterfly valves. No test sections shall
exceed five miles in length without prior approval from the Engineer.
         (b)   Test procedures.
            1.   All newly laid pipe or any newly valved section shall be
subjected to a hydrostatic pressure of at least one and one-half times the
working pressure at the point of testing. The specified test pressure, which is
based on the elevation of the lowest point of the line or section being tested
as corrected to the elevation of the test gauge, shall be applied by means of a
pump connection to the pipe in a manner satisfactory to the town. Allow the
system to stabilize at the test pressure before conducting the leakage test.
            2.   Before applying the specified test pressure, air shall be
expelled completely from the pipe, valves and hydrants. If permanent air vents
are not located at high points, the contractor shall install corporation cocks
at such points so that air can be expelled as the line is slowly filled with
water. After the air has been expelled, the corporation cocks shall be closed
and the test pressure applied. At the conclusion of the pressure test, the
corporation cocks shall be removed and plugged, or left in place if requested
by the town.
            3.   All exposed pipe, fittings, valves, hydrants and joints shall
be examined carefully during the test. Any damaged components during or after
the pressure test shall be repaired at the contractors expense. The test shall
be repeated until the results are satisfactory to the town.
         (c)   Allowable leakage.
            1.   Leakage shall be defined as the quantity of water that must be
supplied into the newly laid pipe or any valved section to maintain pressure
within five psi of the specified test pressure after the pipe has been filled
with water and the air has been expelled. Leakage shall not be measured by a
drop in pressure in a test section over a period of time.
            2.   No pipe installation will be accepted if the leakage is
greater than that determined by the following formula:
L - SD T V P
133,200
            Where:
      L = Allowable leakage, in gallons per hour
      S = Length of pipe tested, in feet
      D = Nominal diameter of the pipe, in inches
      P = Average test pressure during leakage test, in pounds per square inch
(gauge)
To View This Table as a PDF document CLICK_HERE
Allowable Leakage per 1,000 Feet of Pipeline*
Nominal Pipe Diameter, in.
Avg. Test Pressure psi 3 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 24 30 36 42 48 54
Allowable Leakage per 1,000 Feet of Pipeline*
Nominal Pipe Diameter, in.
Avg.
Test     3    4    6    8    10   12   14   16   18   20   24   30   36   42   48   54
Pressure
psi
450      0.48 0.64 0.95 1.27 1.50 1.91 2.23 2.56 2.87 3.18 3.82 4.78 5.73 6.69 7.64 8.60
400      0.45 0.60 0.90 1.20 1.50 1.80 2.10 2.40 2.70 3.00 3.60 4.60 5.41 6.31 7.21 8.11
350      0.42 0.56 0.84 1.12 1.40 1.69 1.97 2.25 2.53 2.31 3.37 4.21 5.06 5.90 6.74 7.58
300      0.30 0.52 0.78 1.04 1.30 1.56 1.82 2.08 2.34 2.50 3.12 3.90 4.68 5.46 6.24 7.02
275      0.37 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.24 1.40 1.74 1.99 2.24 2.40 2.99 3.73 4.48 5.23 5.98 6.72
250      0.36 0.47 0.71 0.95 1.19 1.42 1.56 1.90 2.14 2.37 2.85 3.56 4.27 4.99 5.70 6.41
225      0.34 0.45 0.68 0.90 1.13 1.35 1.58 1.80 2.03 2.25 2.70 3.38 4.05 4.73 5.41 6.03
200      0.32 0.43 0.64 0.85 1.06 1.28 1.48 1.70 1.91 2.12 2.55 3.19 3.82 4.48 5.09 5.73
175      0.30 0.40 0.59 0.80 0.99 1.19 1.39 1.50 1.79 1.98 2.38 2.98 3.68 4.17 4.77 5.36
150      0.28 0.37 0.55 0.74 0.92 1.10 1.29 1.47 1.56 1.84 2.21 2.76 3.31 3.86 4.41 4.97
125      0.25 0.34 0.50 0.87 0.84 1.01 1.18 1.34 1.51 1.68 2.01 2.52 3.02 3.53 4.03 4.53
100      0.23 0.30 0.45 0.50 0.75 0.90 1.05 1.20 1.35 1.60 1.80 2.25 2.70 3.15 3.60 4.05
*If the pipeline under test contains sections of various diameters, the allowable
leakage will be the sum of the computed leakage for each size
 
            3.   When testing against closed metal-seated valves, an additional
leakage per closed valve of 0.0078 gph/in. of nominal valve size shall be
allowed.
            4.   When hydrants are in test section, the test shall be made
against closed hydrant valves.
         (d)   Acceptance of testing. If test results disclose leakage greater
than allowable limits, the contractor shall, at his or her own expense, locate
and make approved repairs as necessary until the leakage is within the
specified allowance. Additional tests performed after the repairs will be at
the contractor’s expense. All visible leaks are to be repaired, regardless of
the amount of leakage.
         (e)   Disinfection of system. After construction is complete, the
newly installed system shall be flushed to remove dirt and foreign material.
The lines shall then be disinfected in accordance with procedures outlined by
the American Water Works Association Standard AWWA C651.
         (f)   Chlorinating requirements.
            1.   Water shall be supplied to the new system at a constant,
measured rate. In the absence of a meter, the rate may be approximated by
methods such as placing a Pitot gauge in the discharge and measuring the time
to fill a container of known volume.
            2.   At a point not more than ten feet downstream from the
beginning of the new main, water entering the new main shall receive a dose of
chlorine fed at a constant rate such that the water will have not less than 50
mg/l free chlorine. To assure that the correct concentration is provided,
measure units shall be taken at regular intervals in accordance with the
procedures described in the current edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water or Wastewater, AWWA Manual M12 or by using an appropriate
chlorine test.
            3.   The following table lists the amount of chlorine required for
each 100 feet for various diameters of pipe. Solutions of 1% chlorine may be
prepared with sodium hypochlorite or calcium hypochlorite. A solution using
calcium hypochlorite requires one pound per eight gallons of water.
Chlorine Required to Produce 50 mg/l Concentration in 100 Feet of Pipe by
Diameter
Pipe Diameter in. 100% Chlorine lb. 1% Chlorine Solution gal.
Chlorine Required to Produce 50 mg/l Concentration in 100 Feet of Pipe by
Diameter
Pipe Diameter in. 100% Chlorine lb. 1% Chlorine Solution gal.
4                 0.026             0.32
6                 0.06              0.72
8                 0.108             1.30
10                0.17              2.04
12                0.24              2.88
16                0.434             5.2
 
            4.   While chlorine is being applied, valves shall be positioned so
that the strong chlorine solution will not flow into water mains in active
service. Chlorine application shall not cease until the entire main is filled
with heavily chlorinated water. The chlorinated water shall be retained in the
main for at least 24 hours. During this time, all valves and hydrants in the
section being treated shall be operated to ensure disinfection of all
appurtenances. At the end of this period, the treated water in all portions of
the main shall have a residual of not than ten mg/l free chlorine.
         (g)   Flushing.
             1.   After the applicable testing period, heavily chlorinated
water shall be removed in order to prevent damage to the pipe. The chlorinated
water shall be flushed from the main until chlorine measurements show that the
concentration in the water leaving the main is greater than 0.5 mg/l, but less
than 2.0 mg/l.
            2.   Chlorinated water shall be properly discharge to an approved
sanitary sewer. If no sanitary sewer is available, a reducing agent shall be
applied to the water to be waste in order to thoroughly neutralize residual.
The following table shows the amount of neutralizing chemicals required. Where
necessary, federal, state and local regulatory agencies should be contacted to
determine if there are special provisions for the disposal of heavily
chlorinated water.
         (h)   Bateriological test.
            1.   Satisfactory bacteriological test results approved by the
State Board of Health shall be produced for two successive sets of samples,
collected at 24-hour intervals, before the new mains are accepted for use.
            2.   The contractor shall notify the town when the system and
disinfection is complete and the water is ready for bacteriological testing.
The town representative will then collect the sample with the contractor
present. The town will submit the sample to an independent certified laboratory
for bacteriological analysis at the contractor’s expense.
            3.   Samples shall be collected from the end of the line, and
tested for bacteriological quality in accordance with Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater. At least one set of samples shall be
collected from the new main and one from each branch. In case of long mains,
samples shall be collected along the length of the line, at reasonable
intervals, as well as at its end. Samples for bacteriological analysis shall be
collected in sterile bottles treated with sodium thiosulfate. No hose or fire
hydrant shall be used in the collection of samples.
         (i)   Re-testing and disinfection. If test results are unsatisfactory,
the contractor shall reflush the lines and repeat the disinfection. Testing
shall be repeated as noted above until the testing results are satisfactory and
the mains are approved for service
   (D)   Manhole testing and inspection.
      (1)   Each manhole shall be visually inspected for leakage or evidence
thereof. If the manhole shows leakage the manhole shall be repaired to the
satisfaction of the town, and re-inspected, and re-tested at the contractor’s
expense.
      (2)   Manholes will be checked by the town after installation and again
before the one-year warranty period ends. If manholes show signs of leakage,
they shall be vacuum tested by an approved company and repaired at the
contractor’s expense.
      (3)   The contractor shall test all manholes using the Standard Test
Method for Concrete Sewer Manholes by the Negative Air pressure (Vacuum) Test.
         (a)   Scope.
            1.   This section covers procedures for testing precast concrete
manhole sections using the vacuum test method to demonstrate the integrity of
the installed materials and the construction procedures. This test method is
used for testing concrete manhole sections utilizing mortar, mastic or gasketed
joints and is intended to be used as a preliminary test to enable the
contractor to demonstrate the condition of the concrete manholes prior to
backfill. It may also be used to test manholes after backfilling; however,
contractor must correlate the testing with the connector supplier.
            2.   This test method is the companion to metric Test Method C
1244M; therefore, no SI equivalents are shown in this test method.
         (b)   Reference documents.
            1.   ASTM Standards;
            2.   C822, Terminology Relating to Concrete Pipe and Related
Products/2;
            3.   C924, Practice for Testing Concrete Pipe Sewer Lines by Low-
pressure Air Test Method/2;
            4.   C969, Practice for Infiltration and Exfiltration Acceptance
Testing of Installed Precast Concrete Pipe Sewer Lines/2; and
            5.   This practice is under the jurisdiction of ASTM C-13 on
Concrete Pipe, most recent edition.
         (c)   Procedures.
            1.   All lift holes and any pipes entering the manholes are to be
plugged. A vacuum will then be drawn and the vacuum drop over a specified time
period will be used to determine the acceptability of the manhole.
            2.   The test head shall be placed at the top of the manhole in
accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations.
            3.   A vacuum of ten inches of mercury shall be drawn on the
manhole, the valve on the vacuum line of the test head will be closed, and the
vacuum pump shut off. The time shall be measured for the vacuum to drop to nine
inches of mercury.
            4.   The manhole shall be considered to pass if the time for the
vacuum reading to drop from ten inches of mercury to nine inches of mercury
meets or exceeds the values indicated.
            5.   If the manhole fails the initial test, necessary repairs shall
be made using an approved method. The manhole shall then be re-tested until a
satisfactory test result is obtained.
            6.   Use or failure of this vacuum test shall not preclude
acceptance by appropriate water infiltration or exfiltration testing if
approved by the town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.37 DOMESTIC WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. All domestic watermains installed within existing or proposed
rights-of-way shall conform to all applicable American Waterworks Association
(AWWA) Standards. Any associated requirements of the State Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM) will be the responsibility of the developer.
Acquisition of all necessary permits will also be the developer’s
responsibility. No construction will be allowed until the developer has
delivered copies of all permits to the town for review and approval.
   (B)   General design standards.
      (1)   Design of all domestic water systems to be owned and operated by
the town will be in accordance with all applicable standards. The town, with
its Engineer, will dictate the size of the mains as necessary to provide
adequate fire protection and to allow for future growth.
      (2)   Water systems shall be designed and installed with fire hydrants at
all intersections and at intervals no greater than 400 feet. Closer hydrant
spacing may be required by the town, depending upon the nature of the
development.
      (3)   Systems shall be designed and installed with adequate valves to
isolate areas of the system for routine maintenance and repair. Isolation
valves will be required at all intersections and at intervals no greater than
600 feet. The town reserves the right to require smaller valve intervals if it
believes that the nature of the development necessitates such.
      (4)   All domestic watermains shall be design and installed at depths no
less than five feet.
   (C)   Valves.
      (1)   Valves shall comply with AWWA C-509 and shall be cast iron body
with mechanical joint ends. The valves shall be Resilient Wedge Valves F-6100
as manufactured by Clow Corporation, or an approved equal. The valves shall be
designed and constructed to withstand a working pressure of 200 psi shall be
hydrostatic tested, without leakage or distortion, under a water pressure of
not less than 400 psi.
      (2)   Plug valves still be series 100 as manufactured by Dezurik,
Homestead Ball centric or an approved equal. Eccentric plug valves shall be
non-lubricated with resilient sealing plug surface, or epoxy coated surface
having screwed, flanged or mechanical joint ends.
      (3)   Valve boxes shall be Clow F-2545 screw type two piece or F-2450
three piece cast iron with removable cast iron lid or approved equal. Valve
boxes shall be provided for all valves located in the distribution system and
in other locations where required or necessary for the operation of the valves.
      (4)   Valves shall be installed in accordance with detail in §
50.38, Detail 5B, included in these standards.
   (D)   Hydrants.
         (a)   All hydrants shall be six-inch, three-way Waterous Pacer.
Hydrants shall conform to AWWA C-502. Threads shall be the National Standard
Thread or similar to that existing in the system and shall open in a
counterclockwise rotation.
         (b)   Hydrants shall be design so that the valve will remain closed if
the upper portion is removed or broken off. The operating nut shall be
pentagonal and shall turn counterclockwise to open. The hose caps shall be
secured to the hydrant with a chain. All hydrants shall have drain valves and
shall be properly painted before shipment and after installation. The
contractor shall provide an operating wrench for every ten hydrants supplied.
The hydrant branch main and watch valve shall be restrained against internal
thrust with an approved restraint method.
   (E)   Materials.
      (1)   Ductile iron.
         (a)   Pipe: All pipe shall be within the following specifications
unless approved otherwise by the town. Each length of pipe and fittings shall
be plainly stamped or indelibly marked or color coded as to the weight, class
and type thereof, and shall include the manufacturer’s trademark or name and
the National Sanitation Seal of Approval. Prior to ordering pipe materials,
approval of the manufacturer must be obtained from the town.
         (b)   Pipe: ductile iron pipe shall be centrifugal cast and shall
conform to AWWA C-151 (ANSI A-21.51). Pipe shall be Pressure Class 250.
         (c)   Lining: the inside surfaces of all pipe and fittings shall be
standard cement mortar lined and seal coated with an approved bituminous seal
coat in accordance with AWWA C-104 (ANSI A- 21.4). Coat the exterior surfaces
with an approved bituminous coating meeting the requirements of AWWA C 151
(ANSI-21.51).
         (d)   Fitting shall be cast iron or ductile iron and standardized for
the type of pipe and joint specified. Fittings shall comply with AWWA C-110
(ANSI A21.10).
         (e)   Mechanical joints or push-on slip joints shall be provided.
Mechanical joints and accessories shall conform to AWWA Standard C-111 (ANSI A-
21.11). The bolts and nuts shall be corrosion resistant high strength alloy
steel. The O-ring gaskets sealing the slip joint shall be made of rubber of
special composition having a texture to assure a watertight and permanent seal
and shall be the product of a manufacturer having at least five years’
experience in the manufacturer of rubber gaskets for pipe joints. The gaskets
shall be a continuos ring of flexible joint rubber of a composition and texture
which is resistant to common ingredients of sewage, industrial waste and
groundwater, and which will endure permanently under the conditions likely to
be imposed by this service. The gasket shall conform to the requirements of
AWWA C-111 (ANSI A-2111).
         (f)   Where indicated on plans for submerged crossings of rivers,
lakes or streams, pipe shall be furnished with boltless ball and socket type
joints with a pipe pressure class of 350 psi.
         (g)   Where indicated on plans, restrained joints shall be provided.
Restrained joints shall be designed in accordance with AWWA C-111 and shall
permit horizontal and/or vertical deflection after assembly, yet adequately
restrain the joint at the full design pressure. Restrained joints shall be Lok-
Fast, Lok-Tyte or equal. Pipe connecting to restrained joint fittings shall
also have restrained joints.
      (2)   Polyvinyl Chloride Pipe (PVC) SDR Rated.
         (a)   Polyvinyl chloride pipe SDR rated shall meet the requirements of
ASTM D2241. The material used shall conform to ASTM D 1784, Class 12454-B. Pipe
shall be SDR-21 (pressure Class 200) unless otherwise approved.
         (b)   Pipe joints shall be bell end or coupling push-on type. Joints
shall meet the requirements of ASTM D 3139 using Flexible Elastomeric Seals.
Solvent-cement joints are not permitted. The joint shall be a designed to
provide for the Thermal expansion and the contractor experienced with a
temperature change of 75°F in each joint of pipe. Details shall be in
accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations. The lubricant shall have no
deteriorating effects on the gasket or the pipe. Gaskets shall meet the
requirements of ANSI A21.11.
         (c)   Fittings shall be standard radius ductile iron meeting the
requirements of AWWA C-110 (ANSI A-21.10). Design and manufacture fittings for
a pressure rating of 200 psig.
   (F)   Service lines. Residential service lines shall be constructed using
one inch or larger CTS polyethylene flexible pipe from the tap to the meter pit
with Mueller 110 compression fittings or an approved equal. Larger service
lines may be necessary for larger water consumers.
   (G)   Meter pits.
      (1)   The minimum diameter shall be 20 inches I.D. for single water
settings. Lid shall be equipped with a standard waterworks locking Pentagon nut
indicating water service. Pits shall be set at the property line with a bottom
depth of 36 inches and the lid at finish grade to allow easy access for Utility
personnel. No. 8 stone bedding or concrete brick shall be utilized below pits
to minimize settling.
      (2)   Pre-manufactured dual meter pits are acceptable where two adjacent
properties exist.
      (3)   Single, PSBH-244-18H-48-Q-NA 18” Dia x 48” Bury, Heavy-Wall Pit-
str; Aug Ball Valve x Chk Valve for five-eights by three-fourths meters; PVC
Brace Pipe; Blk Plastic Ties; C14-33-Q Cplgs Not Assembled (loose).
      (4)   Double, PDSBH-244-21H-48-Q-NA 21” Dia x 48” Bury, Heavy-Wall (SDR
51) Dual Pit-str; Ang Ball Valve x Chk Valve for 2 - five-eights by three-
fourths meters; Parallel PVC Brace Pipes-Perpendicular to Meters; Blk Plastic
Ties; C14-44-Q/C14-33-Q Cplgs Not Assembled.
      (5)   One-inch single, PSBH-444-21H-48-Q-NA 21-inch Dia x 48-inch Bury,
Heavy-Wall (SDR 51) Pit-str; Ang Ball Valve x Chk Valve for one-inch meter; PVC
Brace Pipe; Blk Plastic Ties; C14-44-Q Cplgs Not Assembled.
      (6)   Meters shall be Invensys five-eights inch by three-quarter inch
SRTRPL
   (H)   Backflow preventor. A backflow prevention device is required do be
installed where an auxiliary water supply is connected to the household
plumbing, where any water line from an auxiliary water supply enters or passes
within one foot of any part of the household, all irrigation systems, or any
service connections designated to have a potential cross connection hazard. See
detail in §
50.38, Detail 5(E). The backflow prevention device shall be a University of
Southern California (USC) or other IDEM or town-approved device and shall be
installed in a location approved by the town. The device must be periodically
tested by a tester certified in the state at intervals determined by IDEM and
paid for by the property owner.
   (I)   Special crossings. Steel Casing pipe shall be used where crossing
State Highways, railroads, or where shown elsewhere on plans. The casing pipe
shall be welded steel pipe, new and unused material in accordance with current
ASTM Specifications A-139 Grade B for “Electric Fusion of Welded Steel Pipe”
with a minimum yield of 35,000 psi. The diameter of the casing shall be 24
inches, unless otherwise noted with a wall thickness of 0.407. Installation
shall be in compliance with the American Water Works Association Standard C600-
93, Section 6.
   (J)   Installation.
      (1)   Pipe shall be laid in accordance with applicable requirements of
ANSI/A WW A C600, these standards and the manufacturer’s recommendations. If
any conflicts exist, the most stringent shall apply.
      (2)   The contractor shall provide proper implements, tools and
facilities for the safe and expeditious performance of the work.
      (3)   Every pipe, fitting and valve shall be cleaned of all debris, dirt
and other foreign material before being laid and shall be kept clean until
accepted in the completed work.
      (4)   The contractor shall lay and maintain pipe to the lines and grades
shown on the approved plans unless otherwise allowed by the town, install
fittings, valves and hydrants in the locations shown on the approved drawings.
      (5)   Where the piping is to be constructed parallel to and close to
existing buried utilities, the exact location of which is unknown, adjust the
alignment of the piping to least interfere with these utilities.
      (6)   Piping shall not be laid in water or when the trench or weather
conditions are unsuitable for proper installation.
      (7)   Pipe, fittings and valves shall be lowered into the trench by hand,
by means of hoists or ropes, or by other suitable tools or equipment which will
not damage materials, coatings or linings. Do not drop or dump pipe, fittings
or valves into the trench. Pipe laying shall begin at the lower end. As each
length of pipe is placed in the trench, the joint shall be assembled and the
pipe brought to correct line and grade. Bell holes shall be excavated in
advance of pipe laying so the entire barrel will bear uniformly.
         (a)   Minimum separation. Potable water piping shall be laid at least
ten feet horizontally from any existing sanitary sewer or sewage force main.
The distance shall be measured form edge of pipe to edge of pipe. Potable water
piping crossing sanitary sewers or sewage force mains shall be laid to provide
a minimum vertical distance of 18 inches between the outside of the potable
water piping and the outside of the sewer force main. The 18-inch separation
shall apply whether the potable water piping is over or under the sewer or
force main. Lay potable water piping at crossings of sewers and force mains so
a full length of pipe is centered on the sewer pass through or come in contact
with any part of a sanitary sewer manhole.
         (b)   Depth of cover. Piping shall be installed so that not less than
five feet zero inches of cover is provided over pipe, unless approved otherwise
in writing by the town. Cover shall be measured as the vertical distance from
the top of the pipe to the finish grade elevation.
         (c)   Thrust restraint. Thrust restraint shall be provided at
horizontal and vertical deflection fittings and at tees, caps, reducers, bends,
plugs, tapping sleeves and tapping saddles. General thrust blocking details are
given in the detail in §
50.38, Detail D.
         (d)   Open excavation. Open excavation shall be satisfactorily
protected at all times. At the end of each day’s work, the open ends of all
pipes shall be protected against the entrance of animals, children, earth or
debris by bulkheads or stoppers. The bulkheads or stoppers shall be perforated
to allow passage of water into the installed pipe line to prevent flotation of
the pipe line. Any earth or other material that may find entrance into the
watermain through any such open end must be removed at the contractor’s
expense.
         (e)   Magnetic locator wire. A #12 magnetic locator wire shall be
installed with all PVC or non-metallic utilities and service lines. Wire will
be installed with the pipe and made electrically sound and water tight.
         (f)   Sample point. The developer will be required to provide sample
points to be installed within the system of the new development in locations
and as approved by the town. Sampling stations shall be Eclipse No. 88 as
manufactured by Kupferle Foundry.
   (K)   Pipe bedding, haunching, and backfill.
      (1)   Each pipe section shall be laid in a firm foundation of bedding
material and haunched and backfilled with care. Bedding material shall be
carefully brought to grade along the entire length of pipe to be installed.
Uniformly compacted clean sand bedding shall be installed below all watermains.
Use hand or mechanical tamping to compact the bedding material to a minimum 95%
Standard Proctor Density.
      (2)   Slightly damp material will generally result in a maximum
compaction with a minimum of effort. If water is added to improve compaction or
if water exists in the trench, take care to avoid saturation of bedding
material, which could result in the loss of stability. Check grade of bedding
after compaction to assure conformity with plans.
      (3)   In yielding subsoils, the trench bottom shall be undercut to the
depth necessary and backfilled with graded, crushed stone to form a firm
foundation.
      (4)   Where excavation occurs in rock or hard shale, the trench bottom
shall be undercut and a minimum of six inches crushed stone bedding placed
prior to typical bedding installation.
      (5)   Embodiment material, or haunching, shall be placed around flexible
pipe. Crushed stone, pea gravel, graded gravel or sand used as backfill between
the bedding material and up to 12 inches over the top of the pipe, shall be
hand placed. If fine sand, silt, or clayey gravels are used for initial
backfilling over the pipe, it shall be hand placed in six- to eight-inch layers
and hand compacted on both sides of the pipe to an elevation 12 inches over the
top of the pipe.
      (6)   Trench widths and bedding requirements shall, conform to
manufacturer’s reco- mmendations, AWWA/ASTM Standards and these standards.
Where conflicts exist, the most stringent shall apply.
      (7)   Unless otherwise shown on plans, rigid pipe, such as concrete or
ductile iron, shall be backfilled between the bedding material and a plane 12
inches over the top of the pipe with hand placed finely divided earth, free
from debris and stones.
      (8)   Granular backfill shall be used in accordance with INDOT Standard
Specifications. contractor shall place all granular fill in a manner as to
achieve not less than 95% of the maximum dry density as determined in
accordance with AASHTO T99, Method A (Std. Proctor) for the entire depth of the
excavation.
         (a)   The manner in which the contractor achieves proper compaction
shall be demonstrated at the beginning of the project (first 1,000 cubic yards)
and this method shall be used for the duration of the project.
         (b)   The contractor shall use an independent testing agency to verify
proper compaction.
      (9)   Backfill and bedding shall be in accordance with the detail in §
50.38, Detail 5A, unless approved in writing by the town.
   (L)   Pipe assembly.
      (1)   Joints shall be assembled in accordance with, the manufacturer’s
instructions. The manufacturer’s lubricant shall be properly applied where
applicable. Spigot ends shall be centered in the bell and the pipe pushed home
and brought to the correct line and grade. Pipe and fittings which do not allow
a sufficient and uniform space for joints shall be removed and replaced with
pipe or proper dimensions. Precautions shall be taken to prevent dirt or other
materials from entering the joint space.
      (2)   When it is necessary to deflect pipe from a straight line in either
the horizontal or vertical plane, the amount of joint deflection shall not
exceed 80% of the allowance recommended by the manufacturer. If alignment
results in excess joint deflection, install additional fittings or shorter
lengths of pipe.
      (3)   Cutting pipe for insertion of valves, fittings or closure pieces
shall be done in conformance with recommendations of the manufacturer of the
pipe and cutting equipment. Cutting shall be done in a safe, workman like
manner without creating damage to the pipe lining. An oxyacetylene torch shall
not be used. Ends and rough edges shall be ground smooth. The cut ends of push-
on joint connections shall be beveled by methods recommended by the
manufacturer.
   (M)   Service line installation. All service lines within the public right-
of-way shall be installed in accordance with these standards. Portions of
service lines installed on private property shall be installed in accordance
with the latest addition of the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code and the
Uniform Plumbing Code and shall utilize polyethylene pipe designed for 200 psi.
   (N)   Hydrant installation.
      (1)   Placement.
         (a)   Hydrants shall be installed in locations as shown on plan and in
such a manner to provide complete accessibility. Placement shall reduce the
possibility of damage from vehicles or injury to pedestrians.
         (b)   When placed behind the curb, the hydrant barrel shall be set so
that no portion of the hose nozzle cap will be less than two feet nor more than
six feet from the gutter face of the curb. When set in lawn space between the
curb and the sidewalk, or between the sidewalk and property line, no portion of
the hydrant or nozzle shall be within six inches of the sidewalks.
      (2)   Installation.
         (a)   Hydrants shall stand plumb and shall be situated so that side
nozzles face the curb at a 90-degree angle. If located on private property or a
rural road, the nozzle shall point to the nearest roadway. Each hydrant shall
be connected to the main with not less than a six inches nominal, diameter
branch unless otherwise shown on plans.
         (b)   If hydrant is placed on pervious soil drainage shall be provided
by placing coarse gravel or crushed stone mixed with coarse sand from the
bottom of the trench to a minimum of six inches above the waste opening in the
hydrant elbow.
         (c)   Hydrants shall be tied to the pipe with suitable steel tie rods,
clamps, or restrained joints. Hydrants shall be painted in accordance with AWWA
C-502.
      (3)   Restraint. Hydrants and valves shall be installed with a
manufactured thrust restraint system, or stainless steel all threads, to
stabilize valve and hydrant under all operating conditions including removal
and replacement activities.
   (O)   Testing and disinfection taps. All domestic watermains shall be
flushed, tested and disinfected.
   (P)   Wet taps. 
      (1)   Wet taps will be reviewed and approved by the town on a case by
case basis.
      (2)   The contractor shall obtain all necessary permits from associated
governing agencies prior to beginning work.
      (3)   An inspector from the utility must be present during the tap.
      (4)   Appointments must be scheduled 48 hours in advance of construction.
contractor shall submit a site plan showing, at a minimum the entrance to the
structure, lateral location, sump discharge line, meter pit and location of
proposed service line prior to issuance of a permit. Excavation trench must
comply with all OSHA requirements.
      (5)   A minimum of 36 inches shall be provided between the watermain and
trench wall during installation.
      (6)   The bottom of the trench must be a minimum of 12 inches below the
bottom of the main and six inches behind the main.
      (7)   Stone, sand or pea gravel shall be placed in unstable or wet trench
bottoms.
      (8)   The contractor shall use appropriate methods to keep the trench
bottom dry and free from water.
      (9)   No fittings or bells shall be installed within three pipe diameters
of pipe. No taps shall be made within seven feet of a hydrant. Excavations must
be backfilled with sand or pea gravel to 12 inches above the main.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.38 DETAILS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-676.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-678.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-680.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-682.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-684.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-686.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-688.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-690.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-692.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-694.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-696.png]
 
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 51: STORMWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Authority and title
   
51.002   Applicability and exemptions
   
51.003   Background
   
51.004   Findings
   
51.005   Purpose
   
51.006   Abbreviations and definitions
   
51.007   Responsibility for administration
   
51.008   Conflicting ordinances
   
51.009   Interpretation
   
51.010   Effective date
   
51.011   Disclaimer of liability
Prohibited Discharges and Connections
   
51.025   Applicability and exemptions
   
51.026   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
51.027   Exempted discharges and connections
   
51.028   Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
51.029   Private property maintenance duties
   
51.030   Spill reporting
   
51.031   Inspections and monitoring
Stormwater Quantity Management
   
51.045   Applicability and exemptions
   
51.046   Policy on stormwater quantity management
   
51.047   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
51.048   Drainage easement requirements
   
51.049   Placement of utilities
   
51.050   Structures near county regulated drains
   
51.051   Inspection, maintenance, record-keeping and reporting
Stormwater Pollution Prevention for Construction Sites
   
51.065   Applicability and exemptions
   
51.066   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention
   
51.067   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
51.068   Inspection, maintenance, record-keeping and reporting
Stormwater Quality Management for Post-Construction
   
51.080   Applicability and exemptions
   
51.081   Policy on stormwater quality management
   
51.082   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
51.083   Easement requirements
   
51.084   Inspection, maintenance, record-keeping and reporting
Permit Requirements and Procedures
   
51.095   Conceptual drainage plan review
   
51.096   Permit procedures
   
51.097   Information requirements
   
51.098   Review of individual lots within a permitted project
   
51.099   Changes to plans
   
51.100   Fee structure
   
51.101   Required assurances
   
51.102   Terms and conditions of permits
   
51.103   Certification of as-built plans
Enforcement
   
51.115   Compliance with this chapter
   
51.116   Stop-work orders
   
51.117   Failure to comply or complete
   
51.118   Suspension of access to the storm drain system
   
51.119   Corrective action
   
51.120   Appeals
 
   
51.999   Penalty
   Appendix A: Abbreviations and Definitions
   Appendix B: MS4 Boundary Map
Cross-reference:
   Water, see
Chapter 50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted in accordance with statutory authority granted
under Indiana Code, and further is required by Phase II of the National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System program (FR Doc. 99-29181) authorized by
the 1972 amendments to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management's Rule 13 (327 I.A.C. 15-13), and the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management's Rule 5 (327 I.A.C. 15-5). Based on
this authority and these requirements, this chapter regulates:
      (1)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows into the storm drain
system.
      (2)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to development of lands
located within Ingalls.
      (3)   Drainage control systems installed during new construction and
grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (4)   Erosion and sediment control systems installed during new
constructions and grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (5)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems.
      (6)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Ingalls Stormwater
Management Ordinance.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.002 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall regulate all development and redevelopment
occurring within Ingalls. No building permit shall be issued and no land
disturbance started for any construction in a development, as defined in
Appendix A, until the plans required by this chapter for such construction have
been accepted in writing by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Engineer. With the exception of the requirements of §§
51.025 through
51.031 and
51.098, single-family dwelling houses in accepted subdivisions, new buildings
(or cumulative building additions) with less than 500 square feet of area, and
land-disturbing activities affecting less than 10,000 square feet of area shall
be exempt from the requirements of this chapter. Also exempt from this chapter
shall be the agricultural land-disturbing activities.
   (B)   Ingalls projects shall be exempt from obtaining permit, but are
expected to meet all applicable technical requirements of this chapter and the
Ingalls Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   Any construction project which has had its final drainage plan
accepted by the Madison County Drainage Board within a two-year period prior to
the effective date of this chapter shall be exempt from all requirements of
this chapter that are in excess of the requirements detailed in §§
51.025 through
51.031.
   (D)   The Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the
Ingalls Town Manager have the authority to modify, grant exemptions, and/or
waive any and all the requirements of this chapter and its associated technical
standards document. A pre-submittal meeting with the Ingalls Drainage Board
and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager may be
requested by the applicant to discuss the applicability of various provisions
of this chapter and the associated Ingalls Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual with regards to unique or unusual circumstances relating to a project.
However, any initial determination of such applicability shall not be binding
on future determination of the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager that may be based on the review of
more detailed information and plans.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.003 BACKGROUND.
   (A)   On December 8, 1999, Phase II of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit program, was published, was published in the
Federal Register. The NPDES program, as authorized by the 1972 amendments to
the Clean Water Act, controls water pollution by regulating point sources that
discharge pollutants into waters of the United States. Phase II of NPDES
requires permit coverage for stormwater discharges from regulated small
municipal separate storm sewer systems (MS4s) and for small construction
activity that results in the disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre.
This Federal regulation went into affect March 10, 2003. In response to Phase
II of NPDES, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management enacted Rule 13
(327 I.A.C. 15-13) and revised Rule 5 (327 I.A.C. 15-5).
   (B)   Under these new state and federal regulations, Ingalls is required to
establish a regulatory mechanism for regulating stormwater quality management.
Therefore, the "Madison County Sediment Control & Drainage Ordinance" was
replaced with this document to include stormwater quality in addition to
quantity.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.004 FINDINGS.
   The Town Council of Ingalls finds that:
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within, and
downstream of Ingalls are at times subjected to flooding;
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the region;
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watershed,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, increased flooding,
increased stream channel erosion, and increased sediment transport and
deposition;
   (D)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site
and deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs;
   (E)   Increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff from future development projects
within Ingalls will, absent reasonable regulation and control, adversely affect
Ingalls' water bodies and water resources;
   (F)   Pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within Ingalls will,
absent reasonable regulation, monitoring, and enforcement, adversely affect
Ingalls' water bodies and water resources;
   (G)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, non-point source pollution, and
illicit sources of pollution can be controlled and minimized by the regulation
of stormwater management;
   (H)   Adopting the standards, criteria, and procedures contained and
referenced in this chapter and implementing the same will address many of the
deleterious effects of stormwater runoff and illicit discharges; and
   (I)   Adopting this chapter is necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety, and welfare, for the conservation of our natural resources, and
for compliance with state and federal regulations.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.005 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of Ingalls through the regulation of stormwater
and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system and to protect,
conserve and promote the orderly development of land and water resources within
Ingalls. This chapter establishes methods for managing the quantity and quality
of stormwater entering into the storm drain system in order to comply with
state and federal requirements.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by
excessive stormwater runoff.
      (2)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain
system from construction site runoff.
      (3)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain
system from runoff from new development and re-development.
      (4)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the storm drain system.
      (5)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
monitoring, and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.006 ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the abbreviations and definitions provided
in Appendix A shall apply.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.007 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls
Town Manager shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement
agency may be delegated in writing by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the
Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager to qualified persons or
entities acting the beneficial interest of or in the employ of Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.008 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional requirements to
minimum standards required by other Ingalls Ordinances, and as supplemental
requirements to Indiana's Rule 5 regarding Stormwater Discharge Associated with
Construction Activity, (327 I.A.C. 15-5), and Indiana's Rule 13 regarding
Stormwater Runoff Associated with Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
Conveyances (327 I.A.C. 15-13). In case of conflicting requirements, the most
restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.009 INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases defined in Appendix
A, shall be construed according to the respective definitions given in the
section. Technical words and technical phrases that are not defined in the
chapter by which have acquired particular meanings in law or in technical usage
shall be construed according to such meanings.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.010 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective after its final passage, approval, and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.011 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records, engineering, and
scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or stormwater runoff
amounts may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater damage. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of Ingalls Drainage Board and/or
the Ingalls Town Engineer or any officer, representative, or employee thereof,
for any damage which may result from reliance on this chapter or on any
administrative decision lawfully made there under.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.025 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)    This chapter shall apply to all discharges, including illegal
dumping, entering the storm drain system under the control of the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Manager, regardless of whether the
discharge originates from developed or undeveloped lands, and regardless of
whether the discharge is generated from an active construction site or a
stabilized site. These discharges include flows from direct connections to the
storm drain system, illegal dumping, and contaminated runoff.
   (B)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting, and mining
activities is exempted from the requirements of this chapter unless determined
to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or in excess of
standard practices. Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
   (C)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
acceptance has been granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain
system, is also exempted from this chapter.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.026 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)    No person shall discharge to a MS4 conveyance, watercourse, or water
body, directly or indirectly, any substance other than stormwater or an
exempted discharge. Any person discharging stormwater shall effectively
minimize pollutants from also being discharged with the stormwater, through the
use of best management practices (BMPs).
   (B)   The Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the
Ingalls Town Manager is authorized to require discharges to implement pollution
prevention measures, utilizing BMPs, necessary to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants into the Ingalls' stormwater drainage system.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.027 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
    Notwithstanding other requirements in this chapter, the following
categories of non-stormwater discharges or flows are exempted from the
requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   Water line flushing;
   (B)   Landscape irrigation;
   (C)   Diverted streamflows;
   (D)   Rising ground waters;
   (E)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
   (G)   Discharges from potable water sources;
   (H)   Foundation drains;
   (I)   Air conditioning condensation;
   (J)   Irrigation water;
   (K)   Springs;
   (L)   Water from crawl space pumps;
   (M)   Footing drains;
   (N)   Lawn watering;
   (O)   Individual residential car washing;
   (P)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
   (Q)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
   (R)   Street wash water;
   (S)   Discharges from firefighting activities;
   (T)   Naturally introduced detritus (e.g. leaves and twigs); and
   (U)   Dye-testing authorized by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the
Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.028 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
    Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any
watercourse, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly
prohibited. Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material, including
sewage treatment plant stockpiles, on active construction sites must include
adequate protection and/or containment, as approved by the Ingalls Town
Engineer so as to prevent any such materials from entering any temporary or
permanent stormwater conveyance or watercourse.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.029 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
    Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse located
within their property boundaries, free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation,
and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard
the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee
shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.030 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)    Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a water body any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the Madison County Emergency Management Agency and the Ingalls Town
Manager concerning the discharge. A written report concerning the discharge
shall be filed with the Town Manager's Office and IDEM, by the dischargers
within five days.
   (B)   The written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recourse; and
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for additional
information on the matter.
   (C)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section.
   (D)   This requirement does not relieve discharger from notifying other
entities as required by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.031 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Storm drainage system. The Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls
Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager has the authority to periodically
inspect the portion of the storm drainage system under Ingalls' control, in an
effort to detect and eliminate illicit connections and discharges into the
system. This inspection will include a screening of discharges from outfalls
connected to the system in order to determine if prohibited flows are being
conveyed into the storm drainage system. It could also include spot testing of
waters contained in the storm drainage system itself to detect the introduction
of pollutants into the system by means other than a defined outfall, such as
dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
   (B)   Potential polluters. If, as a result of the storm drainage system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager
may inspect and/or obtain stormwater samples from stormwater runoff facilities
of the subject discharger, to determine compliance with the requirements of
this chapter. Upon request, the discharger shall allow the Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager's
properly identified representative to enter upon the premises of the discharger
at all hours necessary for the purposes of such inspection or sampling. The
Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town
Manager or it properly identified representative may place on the discharger's
property the equipment or devices used for such sampling or inspection.
Identified illicit connections or discharges shall be subject to enforcement
action as described in §§
51.115 through
51.120 and
51.999.
   (C)   New development and re-development. Following the final completion of
construction and the receipt of as-built drawings in compliance with §
51.103 by the Ingalls Town Engineer's Office, the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or
the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager has the authority to
inspect new development and re-development sites to verify that all on-site
stormwater conveyances and connections to the storm drainage system are in
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT
§ 51.045 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
    The storage and controlled release rate of excess stormwater runoff shall
be required for all new businesses, commercial and industrial developments,
residential subdivisions, planned development, rural estate subdivisions, and
any redevelopment or other new construction located within Ingalls. The Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer, after thorough investigation
and evaluation, may waive the requirement of controlled runoff for minor
subdivisions and parcelization. Additional exemptions regarding the detention
requirements are provided under §
51.046(A)(5) below.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.046 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Detention policy. It is recognized that most streams and drainage
channels serving Ingalls do not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey
stormwater runoff resulting from continued urbanization. Accordingly, except
for situations provided in divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) (below), the storage and
controlled release of excess stormwater runoff shall be required for all
developments and redevelopments (as defined in Appendix A) located within
Ingalls.
      (1)   General release rates. In general the post-development release
rates for developments up to and including the ten-year term return period from
storm may not exceed 0.1 cfs per acre of development. The post-development
release rate for developments for the 11 - 100-year return period storms shall
not exceed 0.3 cfs per acre of development. For sites where the pre-developed
area has more than one outlet, the release rate should be computed based on
pre-development discharge to each outlet point. The computed release rate for
each outlet point shall not be exceeded at the respective outlet point even if
the post development conditions would involve a different arrangement of outlet
points.
      (2)   Site-specific release rates for sites with depressional storage.
         (a)   For sites where depressional storage exists, the general release
rates provided above may have to be further reduced. If depressional storage
exists at the site, site-specific release rates must be calculated according to
methodology described in the Ingalls Stormwater Technical Standards Manual,
accounting for the depressional storage by modeling it as a pond whose outlet
is a weir at an elevation that stormwater can currently overflow the
depressional storage area. Post developed release rate for sites with
depressional storage shall be the two-year pre-developed peak runoff rate for
the post- developed ten-year storm and ten-year pre-developed peak runoff rate
for the post-developed 100-year storm. In no case shall the calculated site
specific release rates be larger than general release rates provided above.
         (b)   Also note that for determining the post-developed peak runoff
rate, the depressional storage must be assumed to be filled unless the Ingalls
Draining Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer can be assured, through
dedicated easement, that the noted storage will be preserved in perpetuity.
      (3)   Management of off-site runoff.
         (a)   Runoff from all upstream tributary areas (off-site land areas)
may be bypassed around the detention/retention facility without attenuation.
Such runoff may also be bypassed through the detention/retention facility
without attenuation, provided that a separate outlet system or channel is
incorporated for the safe passage of such flows, i.e., not through the primary
outlet of a detention facility. Unless the pond is being designed as a regional
detention facility, the primary outlet structure shall be sized and the invert
elevation of the emergency overflow weir determined according to the on- site
runoff only. Once the size and location of primary outlet structure and the
invert elevation of the emergency overflow weir are determined by considering
on-site runoff, the 100-year pond elevation is determined by routing the entire
inflow, on-site and off-site, through the pond.
         (b)   Note that the efficiency of the detention/retention facility in
controlling the on-site runoff may be severely affected if the off-site area is
considerably larger than the on-site area. As a general guidance, on-line
detention may not be effective in controlling on-site runoff where the ratio of
off-site area to on-site area is larger than 5:1. Additional detention (above
and beyond that required for on-site area) may be required by the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer when the ratio of off-site area
to on-site area is larger than 5:1.
      (4)   Downstream restrictions.
         (a)   In the event the downstream receiving channel or storm sewer
system is inadequate to accommodate the post-developed release rate provided
above, then the allowable release rate shall be reduced to that rate permitted
by the capacity of the receiving downstream channel or storm sewer system.
Additional detention, as determined by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the
Ingalls Town Engineer shall be required to store that portion of the runoff
exceeding the capacity of the receiving sewers or watercourses. When such
downstream restrictions are suspected, the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or
Ingalls Town Engineer may require additional analysis to determine the
receiving system's limiting downstream capacity.
         (b)   If the proposed development makes up only a portion of the
undeveloped watershed upstream of the limiting restriction, the allowable
release rate for the development shall be in direct proportion to the ratio of
its drainage area to the drainage area of the entire watershed upstream of the
restriction.
      (5)   Exemptions for detention requirements. Detention will not be
required for the following:
         (a)   Notwithstanding the requirements for an individual lot plot plan
permit in this chapter, land alterations where the primary basis on which a
stormwater drainage permit is required is the construction, enlargement, or
location (on a permanent foundation) of a one-family dwelling, two-family
dwelling, or accessory structure appurtenant to either a one- or two-family
dwelling.
         (b)   Accepted fill areas or one-time addition to existing commercial
buildings that do not increase the amount of impervious area on-site by more
than a total of 0.5 acres, provided the existing runoff patterns and flow
capacity within the property will not be altered by the filling operations.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A)(4) (above), those
site developments where the stormwater management system has been designed such
that:
            1.   After combining flows from both the off-site and on-site
drainage areas, there will be no increase in the total peak discharge from the
developing site during the two-, ten-, and 100-year storm events;
            2.   The volume of runoff for each project site outlet has not been
increased for the two-, ten-, and 100-year storm events; and
            3.   The flow width and velocity at the property boundary line for
each sub-basin is less than or equal to that flow width and velocity which
existed prior to the development or the two-, ten-, and 100-year storm events.
         (d)   Where the direct release of runoff from the proposed development
meets the conditions set forth in division (A)(6) below.
      (6)   Direct release provisions. It is the policy of the Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer to not allow the direct release (no
detention) of runoff from a proposed development to an adjacent stream since
there is no large watershed area (more than 100 square miles) of contributing
drainage area in any of the watersheds within Ingalls.
   (B)   Grading and building pad elevations.
      (1)   Maximum yard slopes are 3:1 where soil has been disturbed during
construction processes. Finished floor elevation must be no less than six
inches above finished grade and a minimum of 15 inches above an adjacent road
elevation unless a written variance is granted by the Ingalls Drainage Board.
      (2)   For all structures located in the special flood hazards area (SFHA)
as shown on the FEMA maps, the lowest floor elevations of all residential,
commercial, or industrial buildings, shall be such that lowest floor elevation,
including basement, shall be at the flood protection grade and therefore have
two feet of freeboard above the 100-year flood elevation.
      (3)   The lowest adjacent grade for residential, commercial, or
industrial buildings outside a FEMA or IDNR designated floodplain shall have
two feet of freeboard above the flooding source's 100-year flood elevation
under proposed conditions, unless the flooding source is a rear-yard swale.
When the flooding source is a rear-yard swale, the lowest adjacent grade for
residential, commercial, or industrial buildings shall have two feet of
freeboard above the 100-year flood elevation under proposed conditions or be
separated by a minimum distance of 50 feet from the proposed-condition 100-year
flood boundary.
      (4)   For areas outside a FEMA or IDNR designated floodplain, the lowest
adjacent grade (including walkout basement floor elevation) for all
residential, commercial, or industrial buildings adjacent to ponds shall be set
a minimum of two feet above the 100-year pond elevation or two feet above the
emergency overflow weir elevation, whichever is higher. In addition to the
lowest adjacent grade requirements, any basement floor must be at least a foot
above the permanent water level (normal pool elevation).
      (5)   The 100-year flow paths throughout the development, whether shown
on FEMA maps or not, must be shown as hatched area on the plans and 30 feet
along the centerline of the flow path contained within permanent drainage
easements. A statement shall be added to the plat that would refer to viewer to
the construction plans to see the entire extent of overflow path as hatched
areas. No fences or landscaping can be constructed within the easement areas
that may impede the free flow of stormwater. These areas are to be maintained
by the property owners or be designated as common areas that are to be
maintained by the homeowners' association. The lowest adjacent grade for all
residential, commercial, and industrial buildings shall be set a minimum of one
foot above the noted overflow path/ponding elevation.
      (6)   It shall be the property owners' responsibility to maintain the
natural features on their lots and to take preventative measures against any
and all erosion and/or deterioration of natural or manmade features on their
lots.
   (C)   Acceptable outlet and adjoining property impacts policies.
      (1)   Design and construction of the stormwater facility shall provide
for the discharge of the stormwater runoff from off-site land areas as well as
the stormwater from the area being developed (on-site land areas) to an
acceptable outlet(s) (as determined by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or
Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager) having capacity to
receive upstream (off-site) and on-site drainage. The flow path from the
development outfall(s) to a regulated drain or natural watercourse (as
determined by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/
or the Ingalls Town Manager) shall be provided on an exhibit that includes
topographic information. Any existing field tile encountered during the
construction shall also be incorporated into the proposed stormwater drainage
system or tied to an acceptable outlet.
      (2)   Where the outfall from the stormwater drainage system of any
development flows through real estate owned by others prior to reaching a
regulated drain or watercourse, no acceptance shall be granted for such
drainage system until all owners of real estate and/or tenants crossed by the
outfall consent in writing to the use of their real estate through a recorded
easement. In addition, no activities conducted as part of the development shall
be allowed to obstruct the free flow of floodwaters from an upstream property.
      (3)   If an adequate outlet is not located on site, then off-site
drainage improvements may be required. Those improvements may include, but are
not limited to, extended storm sewers, clearing, dredging and/or removal of
obstructions to open drains or natural water courses, and the removal or
replacement of undersized culvert pipes as required by the Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager.
   (D)   No net loss floodplain storage policy.
      (1)   Floodplains exist adjacent to all natural and man-made streams,
regardless of contributing drainage area or whether that have been previously
identified or mapped. Due to potential impacts of floodplain loss on peak flows
in streams and on the environment, disturbance to floodplains should be
avoided. When the avoidance of floodplain disturbance is not practical, the
natural functions of floodplain should be preserved to the extent possible.
      (2)   In an attempt to strike a balance between the legitimate need for
economic development within Ingalls and the need to preserve the natural
functions of floodplains to the extent possible, compensatory excavation
equivalent to the floodplain storage lost shall be required for all activities
within floodplain of streams located in Ingalls where drainage area of the
stream is equal or larger than one square mile. This requirement shall be
considered to be above and beyond the minimum requirements provided in the
applicable flood hazard areas ordinance currently in effect in Ingalls. The
Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer may alter the
compensation ratio, based on extenuating circumstances, for a specific project.
      (3)   Note that by definition, compensatory storage is the replacement of
the existing floodplain and, in rare exceptions, the floodway storage lost due
to fill. Compensatory storage is required when a portion of the floodplain is
filled, occupied by a structure, or when as a result of a project a change in
the channel hydraulics occurs that reduces the existing available floodplain
storage. The compensatory storage should be located adjacent or opposite the
placement of the fill and maintain an unimpeded connection to an adjoining
floodplain area.
      (4)   Computations must show no net loss of floodplain storage for two-
year, ten-year, 50-year, and 100-year storm events. That is, the post-
development two-year floodplain storage along a stream shall be the same as
two-year pre-development floodplain storage along the stream within the
property limits, the post-development ten-year floodplain storage along a
stream shall be the same as ten-year pre-development floodplain storage along
the stream within the property limits, and so on.
      (5)   Calculations for floodplain volume shall be submitted in tabular
form showing calculations by cross-section. The volume of floodplain storage
under the without-project conditions and the with-project conditions should be
determined using the average-end area method with plotted cross-sections at a
horizontal to vertical ratio of between 5:1 and 10:1, with two- through 100-
year flood elevations note on each cross section. The scale chosen should be
large enough to show the intent of proposed grading. Cross-sections should
reflect both the existing and proposed conditions on the same plot. The
location and extent of to compensatory storage area as well as the location and
orientation of cross-sections should be shown on the grading plan.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.047 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
    The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater facilities shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications outlined in the Ingalls Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
The methods and procedures in the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual are
consistent with the policy stated above.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.048 DRAINAGE EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    There shall be not trees or shrubs planted, nor any structures or
fences erected in any drainage easement, unless otherwise accepted by the
Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town
Manager. All stormwater systems, including detention or retention basins,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances, located outside of the right-
of-way may be incorporated into the Ingalls' system at the discretion of the
Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town
Manager. The developer shall petition to incorporate the storm system into the
Ingalls' system. The stormwater management permit shall not be approved until
such petition is submitted in a form accepted by the Ingalls Drainage Board
and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager.
   (B)   The following specific areas shall be included in a petition:
      (1)   Subdivisions.
         (a)   All new channels, drain tiles equal to or greater than eight
inches in diameter, inlet and outlet structures of detention and retention
ponds, and appurtenances thereto as required by this chapter, that are
installed in subdivisions requiring a stormwater management permit from the
Ingalls Drainage Board shall be petitioned by the project site owner to become
incorporated into the Ingalls' system upon completion, proper inspection, and
acceptance by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/
or the Ingalls Town Manager. New drain tiles refer to all sub-surface
stormwater piping, tubing, tiles, manholes, inlets, catch basins, risers, etc.
         (b)   New drain tile, eight inches to 24 inches in diameter, shall be
placed in a minimum 20-foot easement (ten feet from centerline on each side)
and shall be designated on the record plat as 20-foot regulated drain easement
(RDE). Pipes that are 24 inches or larger in diameter shall be placed in a 30-
foot easement (15 feet from centerline on each side) and shall be designated on
the record plat as 30-foot regulated drain easement. Wider easements may be
required by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer when
the depth of pipe is greater than six to ten feet, depending on the pipe size.
         (c)   A minimum of 25 feet from top of the bank on each side of a new
channel shall be designated on the record plat as drainage easement.
         (d)   Rear-yard swales and emergency overflow paths associated with
detention ponds shall not be included in petition for incorporation. However, a
minimum of 30-feet width (15 feet from centerline on each side) needs to be
designated as drainage easement.
         (e)   A minimum of 30 feet beyond the actual footprint (top of the
bank) of stormwater detention facilities shall be designated as drainage
easement. A minimum 30-foot width easement shall also be required as access
easement, unless the pond is immediately next to a public right-of-way.
         (f)   The statutory 75-foot (each side) drainage easement for
regulated drains already within the Ingalls' system may be reduced if the drain
is reclassified by the Ingalls Drainage Board as an urban drain.
         (g)   If the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer
accepts the petition for incorporation into their system, the following
statement shall become part of the restrictive covenants of every platted
subdivision and shown on the recorded plat: "channels, tile drains eight inches
or larger, inlets and outlets of detention and retention ponds, and
appurtenances thereto within designated drain easements are extensions of the
Ingalls' stormwater drainage system and are the responsibility of the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Manager. Drainage swales and tile drains
less than eight inches in inside diameter shall be the responsibility of the
property owner or homeowner association."
         (h)   The following statement shall be put on each subdivision plat:
"A petition addressed to the Ingalls Drainage Board has been filed in duplicate
with the Ingalls Town Engineer, requesting that the subdivision's storm
drainage system and its easements be accepted into the regulated drainage
system. The storm drainage system and its easements that are accepted into the
regulated drainage system are delineated on the plat as regulated drainage
easements (RDEs). Regulated drainage easements are stormwater easements and
drainage rights-of-way that are hereby dedicated to the public and to Ingalls,
Indiana, for the sole and exclusive purpose of controlling surface water and/or
for the installation, operation, and maintenance of storm sewers and tile
drains as defined in Ingalls Stormwater Management Ordinance. These drainage
easements are established under authority of the Indiana Drainage Code and the
said Board may exercise powers and duties as provided in said code. All other
storm drainage easements have not been accepted into the town's system. All
drainage improvements performed relative to the conveyance of stormwater runoff
and the perpetual maintenance thereof, within the latter easements, shall be
the responsibility of the owner or homeowner association. The Ingalls Drainage
Board assumes no responsibility relative to said improvements or the
maintenance thereof. This subdivision contains                linear feet of
open ditches and               linear feet of subsurface drains that will be
included in the town's regulated drainage system." The noted regulated drain
lengths, broken down by the length of open and tile drains, shall also be shown
in tabular form in a prominent position on the plat.
         (i)   Any crossing and/or encroachment of a drainage easement requires
application and acceptance from the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls
Town Manager.
      (2)   Non-subdivisions. Where the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the
Ingalls Town Manager is responsible for maintenance of the drainage system,
drainage easements of 75 feet from the top of bank on each side of the channel
or each side of the tile centerline must be dedicated to Ingalls. In addition,
a minimum of 25-foot width of vegetative filter strip must be provided and
maintained along top-of-bank, on each side, by the applicant within these
easements.
      (3)   Establishment of new regulated drain. When the Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager
determines it is necessary to establish a new regulated drain, each developer
shall provide the necessary information and meet the requirements of the 1965
Indiana Drainage Code, as amended, for the establishment of a new regulated
drain. Necessary easements for adequate maintenance of any new regulated drain
shall be determined by the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town
Manager if not already established in this chapter.
      (4)   Municipalities and schools. All new channels, swales, drain tiles,
inlet and outlet structures of detention and retention ponds, and appurtenances
thereto as required by this chapter, that are installed on the municipal school
property will be maintained, repaired, and constructed by the entity and will
become regulated drains. The design must meet the standards of the Ingalls
Stormwater Management Ordinance for sizing and installation. Any off-site
portion of the drainage system must be within easements and have clearly
defined maintenance agreements between the property owner and the municipality
and/or school.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.049 PLACEMENT OF UTILITIES.
   No utility company my disturb existing storm drainage facilities without the
consent of the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or
the Ingalls Town Manager, whose decision may be appealed to the Ingalls Town
Council. All existing drainage facilities shall have senior rights and damage
to said facilities shall result in penalties as prescribed in §§
51.115 through
51.120 and
51.999.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.050 STRUCTURES NEAR COUNTY REGULATED DRAINS.
    For regulated drains not located in platted subdivisions, unless otherwise
accepted by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Manager, no
permanent structure (including fences) shall be erected within 75 feet measured
at right angles from: a) the existing top edge of each bank of a regulated open
drain, as determined by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Manager; or b) the center line of a tiled regulated drain. The Indiana Drainage
Code may be consulted for further details.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.051 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD-KEEPING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the Ingalls
Drainage Board and the commencement of construction activities, the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager
has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to insure full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   The Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the
Ingalls Town Manager also have the authority to perform long-term, post-
construction inspection of all public or privately owned stormwater quantity
facilities. The inspection will cover physical conditions, available storage
capacity, and the operational condition of key facility elements. Stormwater
quantity facilities shall be maintained in good condition, in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the approved stormwater management permit, and
shall not be subsequently altered, revised or replaced except in accordance
with the approved stormwater permit, or in accordance with approved amendments
or revisions to the permit. If deficiencies are found during the inspection,
the owner of the facility will be notified by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or
the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager and will be required
to take all necessary measures to correct such deficiencies. If the owner fails
to correct the deficiencies within the allowed time period, as specified in the
notification letter, the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Manager
will undertake the work and collect all cost to collect the deficiencies and
attorney's fees from the owner using lien rights if necessary.
   (C)   Assignment of responsible for maintaining facilities serving more than
one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to property
deeds, unless responsibility is formally accepted by a public body, and
determined before the final stormwater permit is approved. Stormwater
detention/retention basins may be donated to Ingalls or other unit of
government designated by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Manager, for ownership and permanent maintenance providing the Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Manager or other governmental unit is willing to
accept responsibility.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 51.065 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)    The Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or
the Ingalls Town Manager will require a stormwater pollution prevention plan
(SWPPP), which includes erosion and sediment control measures and materials
handling procedures, to be submitted as part of the construction plans and
specifications. Any project located within Ingalls that includes clearing,
grading, excavation, and other land disturbing activities, resulting in the
disturbance of one acre or more of total land area, is subject to the
requirements of this chapter. This includes both new development and
redevelopment. This chapter also applies to disturbances of less than one one
acre of land that are part of a larger common land, within the MS4 area.
Section 51.067 of this chapter provides guidelines for calculating land
disturbance. Projects meeting the coverage requirements of 327 I.A.C. 15-5
(Rule 5) shall also be in compliance with 327 I.A.C. 15-5.
   (B)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities; or
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities.
   (C)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following,
provided other applicable state permits contain provisions requiring immediate
implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more, the individual lot owner must complete their own notice of intent
letter, apply for a stormwater permit from the Ingalls Drainage Board, and
ensure that a sufficient construction and stormwater pollution prevention plan
is completed and submitted in accordance with §§
51.095 through
51.103; regardless of whether the individual lot is part of a larger permitted
project site.
   (E)   An individual lot with land disturbance less than one acre, located
within a larger permitted project site, is considered part of the larger
permitted project site, and the individual lot operator must comply with the
terms and conditions of the stormwater permit approved for the larger project
site. The stormwater permit application for the larger project site must
include detailed erosion and sediment control measures for individual lots. In
addition, these individual lots are required to submit individual lot plot plan
permit applications prior to receiving a building permit. Details of the
permitting process are contained in §§
51.095 through
51.103.
   (F)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager in accordance with §§
51.095 through
51.103. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
compliance with this chapter during the construction activity and
implementation of the construction plan, and to notify the Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Pubic Works
Commissioner with a sufficient notice of termination letter upon completion of
the project and stabilization of the site. However, all persons engaging in
construction and land disturbing activities on a permitted project site meeting
the applicability requirements must comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.066 POLICY ON STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites is
depending on a combination of preventing movement of soil from its original
position (erosion control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a
water body (sediment control), and proper on-site materials handling. The
developer must submit to the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager, SWPPP with detailed erosion and
sediment control plans as well as a narrative describing materials handling and
storage, and construction sequencing.
   (B)   The following principles apply to all land-disturbing activities and
should be considered in the preparation of a stormwater pollution prevention
plan within Ingalls.
      (1)   Minimize the potential for soil erosion by designing a development
that fits the topography and soils of the site. Deep cuts and fills in areas
with steep slopes should be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible.
      (2)   Existing natural vegetation should be retained and protected
wherever possible. Areas immediately adjacent (within 35 feet of top of bank)
to watercourses and lakes also should be left undisturbed wherever possible.
Unvegetated or vegetated areas with less than 70% cover that are scheduled or
likely to be left inactive for 15 days or more must be temporarily or
permanently stabilized with measures appropriate for the season to reduce
erosion potential. Alternative measures to site stabilization may be acceptable
if the project site owner or their representative can demonstrate they have
implemented and maintained erosion and sediment control measures adequate to
prevent sediment discharge from the inactive area.
      (3)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence
so that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development.
      (4)   The length and steepness of designed slopes should be minimized to
reduce erosion potential. Drainage channels and swales must be designed and
adequately protected so that their final gradients and resultant velocities
will not cause erosion in the receiving channel or at the outlet. Methods for
determining acceptable velocities are included Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.
      (5)   Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the project
site shall be treated by erosion and sediment control measures appropriate to
minimize sedimentation. A stable construction site access shall be provided at
all points of construction traffic ingress and egress to the project site.
      (6)   Appropriate measures shall be implemented to prevent wastes or
unused building materials, including, garbage, debris, packaging material,
fuels and petroleum products, hazardous materials or wastes, cleaning wastes,
wastewater, concrete truck washout, and other substances from being carried
from a project site by runoff or wind. Identification of areas where concrete
truck washout is permissible must be clearly posted at appropriate areas of the
site. Wastes and unused building materials shall be managed and disposed of in
accordance with all applicable state statutes and regulations. Proper storage
and handling of materials such as fuels or hazardous wastes, and spill
prevention and cleanup measures shall be implemented to minimize the potential
for pollutants to contaminate surface or ground water or degrade soil quality.
      (7)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment that is a result of runoff or tracking. Bulk clearing of accumulated
sediment shall not include flushing the area with water. Cleared sediment shall
be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in accordance with all
applicable statutes and regulations.
      (8)   Collected runoff leaving a project site must be either discharged
directly into a well-defined, stable receiving channel, or diffused and
released to adjacent property without causing erosion or pollutant problem to
the adjacent property owner.
      (9)   Natural features, including wetlands, shall be protected from
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.067 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)    In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes
of determining applicability of this chapter to the project, the following
guidelines should be used:
      (1)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water, and other utilities) to a land
disturbing project site, must be considered as a part of the total land
disturbance calculation for the project site, when the activity is under the
control of the project site owner.
      (2)   Strip developments will be considered as one project site and must
comply with this chapter unless the total combined disturbance on all
individual lots is less than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development or sale.
      (3)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by this rule,
the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total area of
land disturbance for improvements, such as, roads, utilities, or common areas,
and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined by the
following:
         (a)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
one-half acre or more, one-half acre of land disturbance must be used as the
expected lot disturbance.
         (b)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
less than one-half acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed.
         (c)   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of projects
sites, such as industrial and commercial project sites, a minimum of one acre
of land disturbance must be used as the expected lot disturbance, unless the
lots are less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot must be
calculated as being disturbed.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall meet
the design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the "Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual" or the Ingalls Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. The methods and procedures included in these two references are in
keeping with the above stated policy and meet the requirements of IDEM's Rule
5.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.068 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD-KEEPING AND REPORTING.
   (A)    Following approval of the stormwater management permit by the Ingalls
Drainage Board and commencement of construction activities, the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager
has the authority to conduct inspections of the site to ensure full compliance
with the provisions of this chapter, the Ingalls Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual, the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual, and the terms and conditions of
the approved permit.
   (B)   A self-monitoring program must be implemented by the project site
owner to ensure the stormwater pollution prevention plan is working
effectively. A trained individual, acceptable to the Ingalls Drainage Board
and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager, shall perform
a written evaluation of the project site by the end of the next business day
following each measurable storm event. If there are no measurable storm events
within a given week, the site should be monitored at least once in that week.
Weekly inspections by the trained individual shall continue until the entire
site has been stabilized and a notice of termination has been issued. The
trained individual should look at the maintenance of existing stormwater
pollution prevention measures, including erosion and sediment control measures,
drainage structures, and construction materials storage/containment facilities,
to ensure they are functioning properly. The trained individual should also
identify additional measures, beyond those originally identified in the
stormwater pollution prevention plan, necessary to remain in compliance with
all applicable statutes and regulations.
   (C)   The resulting evaluation reports must include the name of the
individual performing the evaluation, the date of the evaluation, problems
identified at the project site, and details of maintenance, additional
measures, and corrective actions recommended and completed.
   (D)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall serve as a guideline
for stormwater quality, but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for
implementation of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project
site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this chapter,
all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater runoff.
Recommendations by the trained individual for modified stormwater quality
measures should be implements.
   (E)   Although self-monitoring reports do not need to be submitted to the
Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town
Manager has the right to request complete records of maintenance and monitoring
activities involving stormwater pollution prevention measures. All evaluation
reports for the project site must be made available to the Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager, in an
organized fashion, within 48 hours upon request.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR POST-CONSTRUCTION
§ 51.080 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
51.065 through
51.068, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, which is to be submitted to
the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town
Manager as part of the stormwater management permit application, must also
include post-construction stormwater quality measures. These measures are
incorporated as a permanent feature into the site plan and are left in place
following completion of construction activities to continuously treat
stormwater runoff from the stabilized site. Any project located within Ingalls
that includes clearing, grading, excavation, and other land disturbing
activities, resulting in the disturbance of one acre or more total land area,
is subject to the requirements of this chapter. This includes both new
development and redevelopment, and disturbances of less that one acre of land
that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger
common plan will ultimately disturb one or more acres of land, within the MS4
area.
   (B)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities;
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities;
      (3)   Construction activities associated with a single-family residential
dwelling disturbing less than five acres, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale;
      (4)   Single-family residential developments consisting of four or less
lots;
      (5)   A single-family residential strip development where the developer
offers for sale or lease without land improvements and the project is not part
of a larger common plan of development or sale; or
      (6)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project.
   (C)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager in accordance with §§
51.095 through
51.103. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
proper construction and installation of all stormwater BMPs in compliance with
this chapter and with the approved stormwater management permit, and to notify
the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls
Town Manager with a sufficient notice of termination letter upon completion of
the project and stabilization of the site. However, all eventual property
owners of stormwater quality facilities meeting the applicability requirements
must comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.081 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that developed areas, as compared to undeveloped
areas, generally have increased imperviousness, decreased infiltration rates,
increased runoff rates, and increased concentrations of pollutants such as
fertilizers, herbicides, greases, oil, salts and other pollutants. As new
development and re-development continues in Ingalls, measures must be taken to
intercept and filter pollutants from stormwater runoff prior to reaching
regional creeks, streams, and rivers. Through the use of best management
practices (BMP), stormwater runoff will be filtered and harmful amounts of
sediment, nutrients, and contaminants will be removed. Ingalls has adopted a
policy that the control of stormwater quality will be based on the management
of total suspended solids (TSS).
   (B)   The project site owner must submit to the Ingalls Drainage Board and/
or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager, a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) that would show placement of appropriate BMP
(s) from a pre-approved list of BMPs specified in the Ingalls Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual. The noted BMPs must be designed, constructed, and
maintained according to guidelines provided or referenced in the Ingalls
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Practices other than those specified in
the pre-approved list may be utilized. However, the burden of proof, as to
whether the performance (minimum 80% TSS removal) and ease of maintenance of
such practices will be according to guidelines provided in the Ingalls
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, would be placed with the applicant.
Details regarding the procedures and criteria for consideration of acceptance
of such BMPs are provided in the Ingalls Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate
practices to reduce lead, copper, zinc, and hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff.
These requirements will apply to all new facilities and existing facilities
that replace their tanks.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.082 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines discussed
in §
51.067.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater quality management measures, or BMPs shall meet the design
criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana Stormwater
Quality Manual or the Ingalls Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The
methods and procedures included in these two references are in keeping with the
above stated policy and meet the requirements of IDEM's Rule 13.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.083 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
    All stormwater quality management systems, including detention or retention
basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line filters, infiltration systems,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances located outside of the right-
of-way shall be incorporated into permanent easements. For developments
occurring outside the town's limits and/or at the discretion of the Ingalls
Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Drainage Board, the developer shall petition
to establish the noted system as a portion of regulated drain pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-9-27-54, and the drainage plan shall not be accepted
until such petition is submitted in a form accepted by the Ingalls Town
Engineer and the Ingalls Drainage Board. For the purposes of monitoring,
inspection, and general maintenance activities, the petition should include a
30-foot wide perimeter beyond the actual footprint of the stormwater quality
management facility.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.084 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD-KEEPING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the Ingalls
Drainage Board and the commencement of construction activities, the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager
has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to ensure full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Ingalls Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual and the terms
and conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   Stormwater quality facilities shall be maintained in good condition,
in accordance with the operation and maintenance procedures and schedules
listed in the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual or the Ingalls Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved
stormwater permit, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised, or replaced
except in accordance with the approved stormwater permit, or in accordance with
approved amendments or revisions in the permit. Following construction
completion, inspection and maintenance of stormwater quality facilities shall
be the long-term responsibility of the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the
Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Public Safety Commissioner. Stormwater
detention/retention basins may be donated to Ingalls or other unit of
government designated by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Manager, for ownership and permanent maintenance providing the Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Manager or other governmental unit is willing to
accept responsibility.
   (C)   The Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the
Ingalls Town Manager also has the authority to perform long-term, post-
construction inspection of all public or privately owned stormwater quality
facilities. The inspections will follow the operation and maintenance
procedures included in the Ingalls Stormwater Technical Standards Manual and/or
permit application for each specific BMP. The inspection will cover physical
conditions, available water quality storage capacity and the operational
condition of key facility elements. Noted deficiencies and recommended
corrective action will be included in an inspection report.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
§ 51.095 CONCEPTUAL DRAINAGE PLAN REVIEW.
    In order to gain an understanding of the drainage requirements for a
specific project, a developer may submit conceptual drainage plans and
calculations for review by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Engineer. The direction provided by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the
Ingalls Town Engineer during such a review is based on preliminary data and
shall not be construed as an approval or binding on either party. The following
is a general listing of minimum data requirements for the review of conceptual
drainage plans:
   (A)   Two complete sets of conceptual plans showing general project layout,
including existing and proposed drainage systems (plan sheets must be larger
than 11 inches by 17 inches, but not exceed 24 inches by 36 inches).
   (B)   General description of the existing and proposed drainage systems in
narrative form.
   (C)   Watershed boundaries with USGS contours or best information possible.
   (D)   Existing watercourse or regulated drains.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.096 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   This section applies to all development, or re-development of land,
that results in land disturbance of one acre or more. Individual lots with land
disturbance less than one acre that are developed within a larger permitted
project site, should refer to §
51.098 for plan review requirements and procedures.
   (B)   Figure 1 (below) is a flow chart summarizing the plan review/permit
approval process and can be found at the end of this chapter. For projects
located with the MS4 area boundary, as shown in Appendix B, the project site
owner shall submit an application for a stormwater management permit to the
Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer. The application will
include an initial notice of intent letter (NOI) that would also act as the
permit application from, proof of public notice, construction plan sheets,
stormwater drainage technical report, a stormwater pollution prevention plan,
and any other necessary support information. Specific information to be
included in the application can be found in §
51.097 below. Four copies of each application must be submitted to the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer. Additionally, a digital copy
of the construction plans is required in a format accepted by the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-705.png]
 
   (C)   After the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer
receive the application, the applicant will be notified as to whether their
application was complete or insufficient. The applicant will be asked for
additional information if the application is insufficient. If the application
is complete, the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer will
forward one copy of the application to the Soil and Water Conservation District
(SWCD) for its review and comment within a ten-day period. The remaining three
copies will be reviewed in detail by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the
Ingalls Town Engineer and/or its plan review consultant(s). Once all comments
have received and review completed, the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the
Ingalls Town Engineer will either accept the project, request modifications, or
place the project on the agenda of the next scheduled meeting of the Ingalls
Drainage Board. If the project must go through a scheduled meeting, the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer will furnish the applicant a
complete list of comments and objections to the plans and accompanying data
prior to the scheduled meeting. After the scheduled meeting, the Ingalls
Drainage Board will either issue a permit, or request modifications to the
construction plans.
   (D)   Any person to which the chapter applies may request a variance from
the provisions of this chapter in writing and mailed certified mail return
receipt requested to the Ingalls Drainage Board c/o The Ingalls Town Hall,
Ingalls, Indiana. Said request shall identify the provision(s) of the chapter
from which the applicant requests the variance and a detailed statement as to
the basis for the request. Written notice of the date, time and location at
which the variance request will be considered by the Ingalls Drainage Board
shall be mailed to the applicant by the Board. As said date, time and location
or any other date, time and location as established by the Ingalls Drainage
Board, said variance may be considered whereupon a decision to deny, grant or
grant in part the variance being requested, will be made. The Ingalls Drainage
Board may consider the recommendations and comments of the Ingalls Town
Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager as well as the comments of the
applicant or any other person(s) having knowledge of information pertinent to
the variance request. The Ingalls Drainage Board may grant, in whole or in
part, a variance from the terms of this chapter but only upon finding that the
following requirements have been satisfied:
      (1)   The application of the chapter provisions will present or cause
practical difficulties for a development or development site; provided,
however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for the site
owner to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with the
chapter; and
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purpose of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater runoff.
   (E)   The project site owner must notify the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or
the Ingalls Town Engineer and IDEM 48 hours before beginning construction.
Notification shall be in the form of an updated IDEM NOI form. Once a permit
has been issued and the updated NOI submitted to the Ingalls Drainage Board
and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and IDEM 48 hours before beginning
construction, construction may commence. Once construction starts, the project
owner shall monitor construction activities and inspect all stormwater
pollution prevention measures in compliance with this chapter and the terms and
conditions of the approved permit. Upon completion of construction activities,
as-built plans must be submitted to the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the
Ingalls Town Engineer. A notice of termination (NOT) shall be sent to the
Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer once the construction
site has been stabilized and all temporary erosion and sediment control
measures have been removed. The Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Engineer, or representative, shall inspect the construction site to verify the
requirements for an NOT have been met. Once the applicant receives a "verified"
copy of the NOT, they must forward a copy to IDEM. Permits issues under this
scenario will expire five years from the date of issuance. If construction is
not completed within five years, the NOI must be resubmitted at least 90 days
prior to expiration. No Rule 5 (327 I.A.C. 15-5) permit is required from IDEM
for projects within the MS4 area boundary, since the Ingalls Drainage Board is
the permitting authority.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.097 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or part of the
informational requirements listed below. Exemptions are detailed in the
"applicability and exemptions" sections of §§
51.025 through
51.031,
51.045 through
51.051,
51.065 through
51.068 and
51.080 through
51.084. If a project or activity is exempt from any or all requirements of this
chapter, an application should be filed listing the exemption criteria met, in
lieu of the information requirements listed below. This level of detailed
information is not required from individual lots, disturbing less than one acre
of land, developed within a larger permitted project site. Review and
acceptance of such lots is covered under §
51.098 of this chapter.
   (B)   The different elements or a permit submittal include a notice of
intent (NOI), proof of publication of a public notice, construction plans, a
stormwater drainage technical report, a stormwater pollution prevention plan
for active construction sites, a post-construction stormwater pollution
prevention plan, and any other necessary supporting information. All plans,
reports, calculations, and narratives shall be signed and sealed by a
professional engineer or a licensed surveyor, registered in the State of
Indiana.
      (1)   Initial notice of intent. The NOI is a standard form developed by
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management which requires general
project information. The NOI form should be completed in full and accompanied
by proof of publication in a newspaper of general circulation, in the affected
area, that notified the public that a construction activity is about to
commence. The publication must include the following language:
         "(Company name, address) is submitting an NOI letter to notify the
Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management of our intent to comply with the
requirements of the Ingalls Stormwater Management Ordinance, as well as the
requirements of 327 I.A.C. 15-5 and 327 I.A.C. 15-13, to discharge stormwater
from construction activities for the following project: (name of the
construction project, address of the location of the construction project, and
Parcel Identification Number). Runoff from the project site will discharge to
(stream{'{'}s{'}'} receiving the discharge{'{'}s{'}'})."
      (2)   Construction plans. Construction plan sheets (not to exceed 24
inches by 36 inches in size) and an accompanying narrative report shall
describe and depict the existing and proposed conditions. Construction plans
need to include the following detailed items:
         (a)   Project narrative and supporting documents, including the
following information:
            1.   An index indicating the location, in the construction plans,
of all information required by this division.
            2.   Description of the nature and purpose of the project.
            3.   A copy of a legal boundary survey for the site, performed in
accordance with Rule 12 of Title 865 of the Indiana Administrative Code or any
applicable and subsequently adopted rule or regulation for the subdivision
limits, including all drainage easements and wetlands.
            4.   Soil properties, characteristics, limitations, and hazards
associated with the project site and the measures that will be integrated into
the project to overcome or minimize adverse soil conditions.
            5.   General construction sequence of how the project site will be
built, including phases of construction.
            6.   Fourteen-digit watershed hydrologic unit code.
            7.   A reduced plat or project site map showing the lot numbers,
lot boundaries, easements, and road layout and names. The reduced map must be
legible and submitted on a sheet or sheets no larger than 11 inches by 17
inches for all phases or sections of the project site.
            8.   A topographic map of the land to be developed and such
adjoining land whose topography may affect the layout or drainage of the
development. The contour intervals shall be one foot when slopes are less than
or equal to 2% and shall be two feet when slopes exceed 2%. All elevations
shall be given in North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD). The horizontal
datum of topographic map shall be based on Indiana State Plane Coordinates,
NAD83. The map will contain a notation indicating these datum information.
               a.   If the project site is less than or equal to two acres in
total land area, the topographic map shall include all topography of land
surrounding the site to a distance of at least 100 feet; or
               b.   If the project site is greater than two acres in total land
area, the topographic map shall include all topography of land surrounding the
site to a distance of at least 200 feet.
            9.   Identification of any other state or federal water quality
permits that are required for construction activities associated with the
owner's project site.
            10.   Proof of errors and omissions insurance for the registered
professional engineer or licensed surveyor showing a minimum amount of
$1,000,000 in coverage.
         (b)   Vicinity map depicting the project site location in relationship
to recognizable local landmarks, towns, and major roads, such as a USGS
topographic quadrangle map, or county or municipal road map.
         (c)   An existing project site layout that must include the following
information:
            1.   Location, name, and normal water level of all wetlands, lakes,
ponds, and water courses on, or adjacent to, the project site.
            2.   Location of all existing structures on the project site.
            3.   One hundred-year floodplains, floodway fringes, and floodways.
Please not if none exists.
            4.   Soil map of the predominant soil types, as determined by the
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Natural Resources Conservation
Services (NRCS) Soil Survey, or as determined by a soil scientist. Hydrologic
classification for soils should be shown when hydrologic methods requiring
soils information are used. A soil legend must be included with the soil map.
            5.   Identification and delineation of the vegetative cover such as
grass, weeds, brush, and trees on the project site.
            6.   Location of storm, sanitary, combined sewer, and septic tank
systems and outfalls.
            7.   Land use of all adjacent properties.
            8.   Identification and delineation of sensitive areas.
            9.   Existing topography at a contour interval appropriate to
indicate drainage pattens.
            10.   The location of regulated drains, farm drains, inlets and
outfalls, if any of record are known.
            11.   Location of all existing cornerstones within the proposed
development and a plan to protect and preserve them.
         (d)   Final project site layout, including the following information:
            1.   Location of all proposed site improvements, including roads,
utilities, lot delineation and identification, proposed structures, and common
areas.
            2.   One-hundred-year floodplains, floodway fringes, and floodways.
Please note if none exists.
            3.   Proposed final topography, at a contour interval appropriate
to indicate drainage patterns.
         (e)   A grading plan, including the following information:
            1.   Delineation of all proposed land disturbing activities,
including off-site activities that will provide services to the project site.
            2.   Location of all soil stockpiles and borrow areas.
            3.   Information regarding any off-site borrow, stockpile, or
disposal areas that are associated with a project site, and under the control
of the project site owner.
            4.   Existing and proposed topographic information.
         (f)   A drainage plan, including the following information:
            1.   An estimate of the peak discharge, based on the ten-year storm
24-hour event, of the project site for post-construction conditions.
            2.   The proposed 100-year and ten-year release rates determined
for the site, showing the methodology used to calculate them and detailing
considerations given to downstream restrictions (if any) that may affect the
calculated allowable release rates.
            3.   Calculation showing peak runoff rate after development for the
ten-year and 100-year return period 24-hour storms do not exceed the respective
allowable release runoff rates.
            4.   Location, size, and dimensions of all existing streams to be
maintained, and new drainage systems such as culverts, bridges, storm sewers,
conveyance channels, and 100-year overflow paths/ponding areas shown as hatched
areas, along with all associated easements.
            5.   Locations where stormwater may be directly discharged into
groundwater, such as abandoned wells or sinkholes. Please note if none exists.
            6.   Locations of specific points where stormwater discharge will
leave the project site.
            7.   Name of all receiving waters. If the discharge is to a
separate municipal storm sewer, identify the name of the municipal operator and
the ultimate receiving water.
            8.   Location, size, and dimensions of features such as permanent
retention or detention facilities, including natural or constructed wetlands,
used for the purpose of stormwater management. Include existing retention or
detention facilities that will be maintained, enlarged, or otherwise altered
and new ponds or basins to be built and the basis of their design.
            9.   The estimated depth and amount of storage required by design
of the new ponds or basins.
            10.   One or more typical cross sections of all existing and
proposed channels or other open drainage facilities carried to a point above
the 100-year high water and showing the elevation of the existing land and the
proposed changes, together with the high water elevations expected from the
100-year storm under the controlled conditions called for by this chapter, and
the relationship of structures, streets, and other facilities.
         (g)   Any other information required by the Ingalls Drainage Board
and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer in order to thoroughly evaluate the submitted
material.
      (3)   Stormwater drainage technical report. A written stormwater drainage
technical report must contain a discussion of the steps taken in the design of
the stormwater drainage system. The technical report needs to include the
following detailed items:
         (a)   A summary report, including the following information:
            1.   The significant drainage problems associated with the project;
            2.   The analysis procedure used to evaluate these problems and to
propose solutions;
            3.   Any assumptions or special conditions associated with the use
of these procedures, especially the hydrologic or hydraulic methods;
            4.   The proposed design of the drainage control system; and
            5.   The results of the analysis of the proposed drainage control
system showing that it does solve the project's drainage problems. Any
hydrologic or hydraulic calculations or modeling results must be adequately
cited and described in the summary description. If hydrologic or hydraulic
models are used, the input and output files for all necessary runs must be
included in the appendices. A map showing any drainage area subdivisions used
in the analysis must accompany the report.
         (b)   A hydrologic/hydraulic analysis, consistent with the
methodologies and calculations included in the Ingalls Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual, and including the following information:
            1.   A hydraulic report detailing existing and proposed drainage
patterns on the subject site. The report should include a description of
present land use and proposed land use. Any off-site drainage entering the site
should be addressed as well. This report should be comprehensive and detail all
of the steps the engineer took during the design process.
            2.   All hydrologic and hydraulic computations should be included
in the submittal. These calculations should include but are not limited to;
runoff curve numbers and runoff coefficients, runoff calculations, state-
discharge relationships, times-of-concentration and storage volumes.
            3.   Copies of all computer runs. These computer runs should
include both the input and the outputs. Electronic copies of the computer runs
with input files must also be included.
            4.   A set of exhibits should be included showing the drainage sub-
areas and a schematic detailing of how the computer models were set up.
            5.   A conclusion which summarizes the hydraulic design and details
how this design satisfies this chapter.
      (4)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan for construction sites. A
stormwater pollution prevention plan associated with construction activities
must be designed to, at least, meet the requirements of this chapter and must
include the following:
         (a)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications, and construction
details of all temporary and permanent stormwater quality measures.
         (b)   Temporary stabilization plans and sequence of implementation.
         (c)   Permanent stabilization plans and sequence of implementation.
         (d)   Temporary and permanent stabilization plans shall include the
following:
            1.   Specifications and application rates for soil amendments and
seed mixtures.
            2.   The type and application rate for anchored mulch.
         (e)   Construction sequence describing the relationship between
implementation of stormwater quality measures and stages of construction
activities.
         (f)   A typical erosion and sediment control plan for individual lot
development
         (g)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
         (h)   A description of potential pollutant sources associated with the
construction activities, which may reasonably be expected to add a significant
amount of pollutants to stormwater discharges.
         (i)   Material handling and storage associated with construction
activity shall meet the spill prevention and spill response requirements in 327
I.A.C. 2-6.1.
         (j)   Name, address, telephone number, and list of qualifications of
the trained individual in charge of the mandatory stormwater pollution
prevention self-monitoring program for the project site.
      (5)   Post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan. The post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan must include the following
information:
         (a)   A description of potential pollutant sources from the proposed
land use, which may reasonably be expected to add a significant amount of
pollutants to stormwater discharges.
         (b)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications, and construction
details of all post-construction stormwater quality measures.
         (c)   A description of measures that will be installed to control
pollutants in stormwater discharges that will occur after construction
activities have been completed. Such practices include infiltration of runoff,
flow reduction by use of open vegetated swales and natural depressions, buffer
strip and riparian zone preservation, filter strip creation, minimization of
land disturbance and surface imperviousness, maximization of open space, and
stormwater retention and detention ponds.
         (d)   A sequence describing when each post-construction stormwater
quality measure will be installed.
         (e)   Stormwater quality measures that will remove or minimize
pollutants from stormwater runoff.
         (f)   Stormwater quality measures that will be implemented to prevent
or minimize adverse impacts to stream and riparian habitat.
         (g)   A narrative description of the maintenance guidelines for all
post-construction stormwater quality measures to facilitate their proper long-
term function. This narrative description shall be made available to future
parties who will assume responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the
post-construction stormwater quality measures.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.098 REVIEW OF INDIVIDUAL LOTS WITHIN A PERMITTED PROJECT.
   (A)    For individual lots disturbing less than one acre, developed within a
larger permitted project, a formal review and issuance of an individual lot
plot plan permit will be required before a building permit can be issued. All
stormwater management measures necessary to comply with this chapter must be
implemented in accordance with permitted plan for the larger project.
   (B)   The following information must be submitted to the Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Manager, for review and acceptance, by the
individual lot operator, whether owning the property or acting as the agent of
the property owner, as part of a request for review and issuance of an
individual lot plot plan permit that must be obtained prior to the issuance of
a building permit.
      (1)   A site layout for the subject lot and all adjacent lots showing
building pad location, dimensions, and elevations, and the drainage patterns
and swales.
      (2)   Erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes the
following measures:
         (a)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access.
         (b)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance.
         (c)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot.
         (d)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes, ordinances and rules.
         (e)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization.
         (f)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
      (3)   Certification of compliance stating that the individual lot plan is
consistent with the stormwater management permit, as approved by the Ingalls
Drainage Board, for the larger project.
      (4)   Name, address, telephone number, and list of qualifications of the
trained individual in charge of the mandatory stormwater pollution prevention
self-monitoring program for the project site.
   (C)   The individual lot operator is responsible for installation and
maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.099 CHANGES TO PLANS.
    Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and specifications after
approval of the applicable stormwater management permit shall be filed with,
and accepted by, the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer
prior to the land development involving the change. Copies of the changes, if
accepted, shall be attached to the original plans and specifications.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.100 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Fee amount. As a condition of the submittal and the review of
development plans by Ingalls, the applicant shall agree to pay the Ingalls Town
Engineer the applicable fee, as set by the Ingalls Drainage Board and the
Ingalls Town Engineer with respect to the review of all drainage submittals,
preliminary plans, final plans, construction plans and accompanying information
and data, as well as pre-paid inspection fees.
   (B)   Time of payment.
      (1)   After the meeting at which the Ingalls Drainage Board is scheduled
to consider acceptance of the applicant's stormwater management plan, the
Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer will furnish a written
statement to the applicant specifying the total amount due the Ingalls Town
Engineer in connection with the review of the applicant's submittals, plans and
accompanying information and data, including the amount required to be paid by
applicant for review and pre-paid inspection fees.
      (2)   As a condition of acceptance of the stormwater management plan by
the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer, applicant shall
pay to the Ingalls Town Engineer the sum set forth in said statement. The
Ingalls Town Engineer may issue such a billing statement before the project
advances to the final acceptance stage, and such payment is due by the
applicant upon receipt of said billing statement regardless of whether the
project is advanced to the final acceptance stage.
      (3)   The Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer shall
have the right to not accept the drainage improvements or to not accept the
advancement of any project for which the applicable fees have not been paid.
   (C)   Method of payment. Fees shall be paid by one of the following methods:
      (1)   Certified check.
      (2)   Cashier's check.
      (3)   Money order.
   (D)   Refund of payment. Fees are refundable only if the Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer determines that compliance by the
development to this chapter is not necessary.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.101 REQUIRED ASSURANCES.
    As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer shall require the applicant to provide
assurance in form of an irrevocable letter of credit or a performance bond when
the stormwater management plan has been accepted, all applicable fees paid, and
before construction begins. Said assurance will guarantee a good faith
execution of the stormwater drainage plan, the stormwater pollution prevention
plan, the stormwater quality management plan, and any permit conditions. The
assurance shall be for an amount equal to 110% of the total costs of all
stormwater management measures for the entire project. The above mentioned
costs shall be based on an estimate as prepared by a registered engineer or
land surveyor and approved by the Ingalls Town Engineer. Said costs shall be
for the installation and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of erosion control
measures and the construction and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of storm
drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities, and stormwater quality
BMPs, as regulated under this chapter, until the construction is completed,
site is stabilized, and as-built plans are accepted by the Ingalls Drainage
Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer. Assurances shall be for a minimum of
$5,000. The intent of this assurance is not only to complete the installation
of storm drain infrastructure for the project, but also to assure that adequate
stormwater pollution prevention measures are properly installed and maintained.
If adequate assurances are set aside by the project site owner for the overall
project, proof of total assurance can be submitted in place of an individual
stormwater assurance.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.102 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   In granting a stormwater management permit, the Ingalls Drainage Board
and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer may impose such terms and conditions as are
reasonably necessary to meet the purposes of this chapter. The project site
owner shall insure compliance with such terms and conditions. Non-compliance
with the terms and conditions of permits will be subject to enforcement as
described in §§
51.115 through
51.120 and
51.999.
   (B)   The project site owner shall inform all general contractors,
construction management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility
contractors, and the contractors that have primary oversight on individual
building lots of the terms and conditions of the stormwater management permit
and the schedule for proposed implementation.
   (C)   In the event that a project site is determined to impact or discharge
to a sensitive area or is located in an impact drainage area, the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager
may require more stringent stormwater quantity and quality measures than
detailed in this chapter or in the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual.
      (1)   Determination of sensitive areas. Sensitive areas include highly
erodible soils, wetlands, threatened or endangered species habitat, outstanding
waters, impaired waters, recreational waters, and surface drinking water
sources. A listing of highly erodible soils, outstanding water, impaired water,
recreational water and surface drinking water sources can be found in the
Ingalls Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. If wetlands are suspected on a
site, a wetland delineation should be completed in accordance with the
methodology established by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE). The presence
of threatened or endangered species habitat will be determined by the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager
during the permit review process. Special terms and conditions for development
determined to impact or discharge to any sensitive area shall be included in
the stormwater management permit.
      (2)   Determination of impact drainage areas.
         (a)   The Ingalls Drainage Board is authorized, but is not required,
to classify certain geographical areas as impact drainage areas. In determining
impact drainage areas, the Ingalls Drainage Board shall consider such factors
as topography, soil type, capacity of existing drains, and distance from
adequate drainage facility. The following areas shall be designated as impact
drainage areas, unless good reason for not including them is presented to the
Ingalls Drainage Board.
            1.   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the most updated
Ingalls Code dealing with floodplain regulation.
            2.   Land within 75 feet of each bank of any ditch within the
Ingalls' system.
            3.   Land within 75 feet of the centerline of any drain tile or
enclosed conduit within the Ingalls' system.
         (b)   Land that does not have an adequate outlet, taking into
consideration the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an
impact drainage area by the Ingalls Drainage Board. Special terms and
conditions for development within any impact drainage area shall be included in
the stormwater management permit.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.103 CERTIFICATION OF AS-BUILT PLANS.
   (A)    After completion of construction of the project and before final
acceptance of the stormwater management plan, a professionally prepared and
certified 'as-built' set of plans shall be submitted to the Ingalls Drainage
Board for review. Additionally, a digital copy of the 'as-built' plans is
required in a format accepted by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls
Town Engineer. These plans shall include all pertinent data relevant to the
completed storm drainage system and stormwater management facilities, and shall
include:
      (1)   Pipe size and pipe material;
      (2)   Invert elevations;
      (3)   Top rim elevations;
      (4)   Pipe structure lengths;
      (5)   BMP types, dimensions, and boundaries/easements;
      (6)   "As-planted" plans for BMPs, as applicable;
      (7)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume;
      (8)   Data and calculations showing BMP treatment capacity; and
      (9)   Certified statement on plans stating the completed storm drainage
system and stormwater management facilities substantially comply with
construction plans and the stormwater management permit as approved by the
Ingalls Drainage Board. (See certificate in Ingalls Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.)
   (B)   The property owner, developer or contractor shall be required to file
a five-year maintenance bond or other acceptable guarantee with the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer, prior to acceptance, in an
amount not to exceed 25% of the cost of the stormwater drainage system, and in
a form satisfactory to the Ingalls Drainage Board's attorney in order to assure
that such stormwater installation was done according to standards of good
workmanship, that the materials used in the construction and installation were
of good quality and construction, and that such project was done in accordance
with the accepted plans, and this chapter. The bond or other acceptable
guarantee shall be in effect for a period of five years after the date of the
final project acceptance by the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Engineer.
   (C)   To verify that all regulated drain tiles are functioning properly,
visual recordings (via closed circuit television) of such tile drains shall be
required, once following the completion of installation (including the
installation of all utility mains) and the second time before release of
maintenance bonds. These visual recordings will be scheduled by the Ingalls
Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and paid for by the developer.
Notices shall be provided to the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Engineer within 72 hours following the completion of installation and again at
least 60 days prior to the expiration date of the maintenance bond so that the
noted recordings may be scheduled. Reports summarizing the results of the noted
visual recordings shall be reviewed and accepted by the Ingalls Drainage Board
and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer before the plat is recommended for recording
and again before maintenance bond would be recommended to be released.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.115 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, compliance with the
requirements set forth in the local zoning and subdivision control ordinances
is also necessary. Compliance with all applicable ordinances of Ingalls as well
as with applicable State of Indiana statutes and regulations shall also be
required. Unless otherwise stated, all other specifications referred to in this
chapter shall be the most recent edition available. Violations of the
requirements of this chapter are subject to the penalties listed below.
   (B)   In order to execute any inspection authorized pursuant to this
chapter, and designated representative of the Town of Ingalls shall have the
right to enter upon any premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of
carrying out his or her or their designated duties and enforcement of this
chapter unless the owner or occupant of the premises refuses to permit entry to
the designated employee when entry is sought pursuant to this section. In the
event of such a refusal, the Ingalls Drainage Board may make application to the
Judge of any Court in Madison County for the issuance of an administrative
search warrant. The application shall identify the premises upon which entry is
sough and the purpose for which entry is desired. The application shall state
the facts giving rise to the belief that a condition which is in violation of
this chapter may exist or that a violation in fact exists and must be abated.
Any warrant issued pursuant to the application shall order the owner or
occupant to permit entry of the designated representative for the purposes
stated therein.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.116 STOP-WORK ORDERS.
   In addition to the penalties listed above, if land disturbance activities
are conducted contrary to the provisions of this chapter or accepted final
stormwater management plans, the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager may order the work stopped by notice
in writing served on any person engaged in the doing or causing such work to be
done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by
the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town
Manager to proceed with the work. The Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls
Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager may also undertake or cause to
undertaken, any necessary or advisable protective measures to prevent
violations of this chapter or to avoid or reduce the effects of noncompliance
herewith. The cost of any such protective measures shall be the responsibility
of the owner of the property upon which the work is being done and the
responsibility of any person carrying out or participating in the work.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.117 FAILURE TO COMPLY OR COMPLETE.
    In addition to any other remedies, should any owner fail to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager may, after giving notice and
opportunity for compliance, have the necessary work done, and the owner shall
be required to promptly reimburse the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls
Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager for all costs of such work.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.118 SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO THE STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.
   (A)   Suspension due to emergency situations. The Ingalls Drainage Board
and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager may, without
prior notice, suspend storm drain system discharge access to a person when such
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons or other animal life, or to the storm drain
system or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, Ingalls may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the storm drain system or waters of
the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the storm drain system in violation of this chapter may have
their storm drain system access terminated if such termination would abate or
reduce an illicit discharge. The Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town
Manager will notify in writing the violator of the proposed termination of its
MS4 access. The violator may petition the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the
Ingalls Town Manager for a reconsideration hearing.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.119 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
    Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or
the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls Town Manager from taking such
other action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. Costs
include, but are not limited to, repairs to the storm drain system made
necessary by the violation, as well as those penalties levied by the EPA or
IDEM for violation of the Ingalls' NPDES permit, attorneys' fees, and other
costs and expenses.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.120 APPEALS.
    Any person to whom any provision of the chapter has been applied may appeal
any action or decision made in accordance therewith to the Ingalls Town Council
not later than 30 days after the action or decision being appealed has
occurred. Such appeal shall identify in a detailed fashion the matter being
appealed and the basis for the appeal. The person appealing the decision or
action will receive 48 hours written notice of the date, time and location at
which the Ingalls Town Council shall consider the appeal and make a decision
whereby it affirms, rejects, or modifies the action or decision being appealed.
The Ingalls Town Council may consider, at said meeting, the recommendations of
the Ingalls Drainage Board and/or the Ingalls Town Engineer and/or the Ingalls
Town Manager and the comments of other persons having knowledge of the matter
being appealed. The Ingalls Town Council may, in response to said appeal, grant
a variance from the terms of this chapter but only upon finding that the
following requirements have been satisfied:
   (A)   The applications of the chapter provisions being appealed will present
or cause practical difficulties for a development site; provided, however, that
practical difficulties shall not include the need for the developer to incur
additional expenses in order to comply with the chapter; and
   (B)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater runoff.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person found in violation of any provision of the chapter shall
be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a maximum fine of $2,500
for each offense, plus costs, damages, attorneys' fees and expenses. Each day
such violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense and shall
make the violator liable for the imposition of a fine for each day. The rights
and remedies provided for in this section are cumulative and in addition to any
other remedies provided by law. An admission or determination of responsibility
shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this chapter
shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, "subsequent offense" means a violation
of the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within 12 months
of a previous violation of the same provision of the chapter for which said
person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
APPENDIX A: ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
   (A)   Abbreviations.
      BMP. Best Management Practice.
      COE. United States Army Corps of Engineers.
      CWA. Clean Water Act.
      EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
      GIS. Geographical Information System.
      IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      MS4. Municipal Separate Storm Sewers.
      NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
      NRCS. USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service.
      POTW. Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
      SWCD. Soil and Water Conservation District.
      SWPPP. Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan.
      USDA. United States Department of Agriculture.
      USFWS. United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tile. For purposes of this rule, the term
does not include land disturbing activities for the construction of
agricultural related facilities, such as barns, buildings to house livestock,
roads associated with infrastructure, agricultural waste lagoons and
facilities, lakes and ponds, wetlands; and other infrastructure.
      BASE FLOW. Stream discharge derived from groundwater sources as
differentiated from surface runoff. Sometimes considered to include flows from
regulated lakes or reservoirs.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Design, construction, and maintenance
practices and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, prevent erosion, and capture pollutants.
      BUFFER STRIP. An existing, variable width strip of vegetated land
intended to protect water quality and habitat.
      CAPACITY (OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY). The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to pubic
or private property.
      CATCH BASIN. A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for the
admission of surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its base a
sediment sump designed to retained grit and detritus below the point of
overflow.
      CHANNEL. A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which
periodically of continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
link between two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to
confine the water.
      COMPENSATORY STORAGE. The creation of floodplain storage for floodwater
that would offset the floodplain storage lost to development or fill.
      COMPREHENSIVE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. A comprehensive stormwater program
for effective management of stormwater quantity and quality throughout the
community.
      CONSTRUCTED WETLAND. A manmade shallow pool that creates growing
conditions suitable for wetland vegetation and is designed to maximize
pollutant removal.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land disturbing activities, and land disturbing
activities associated with the construction of infrastructures and structures.
This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor
landscaping projects.
      CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
      CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
      CONTOUR. An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting points
of the same elevation.
      CONTOUR LINE. Line on a map which represents a contour or points of equal
elevation.
      CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the
project site or individual lot owner, their agent, or the individual lot
operator to perform services on the project site.
      CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
      CROSS SECTION. A graph or plot of ground elevation across a stream valley
or a portion of it, usually along a line perpendicular to the stream direction
of flow.
      CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage
water under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
      DECHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE. Chlorinated water that has either
sat idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the MS4
conveyance, or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations (less
than five-hundredths milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
      DEPRESSIONAL STORAGE. Non-riverine depressions where stormwater collects.
      DESIGN STORM. A selected storm event, described in terms of the
probability of occurring once within a given number of years, for which
drainage or flood control improvements are designed and built.
      DETENTION. Managing stormwater runoff by temporary holding and controlled
release.
      DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow
of stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the
excess waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
      DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining and storage of stormwater in
storage facilities, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks,
open spaces or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with
the rate of release regulated by appropriately installed devices.
      DETENTION TIME. The theoretical time required to displace the contents of
a tank or unit at a given rate of discharge (volume divided by rate of
discharge).
      DETRITUS. Dead or decaying organic matter; generally contributed to
stormwater as fallen leaves and sticks or as dead aquatic organisms.
      DEVELOPER. Any person financially responsible for construction activity,
or an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any
lots in a subdivision.
      DISCHARGE. Usually the rate of water flow. A volume of fluid passing a
point per unit time commonly expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters
per second, gallons per minute, or millions of gallons per day.
      DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so
that the solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste, may
enter the environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any
waters, including ground waters.
      DITCH. A man-made, open watercourse in or into which excess surface water
or groundwater drained from land, stormwater runoff, or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
      DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land by
means of ditches or subsurface drains. Also see NATURAL DRAINAGE.
      DRAINAGE AREA. The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may
be of different sizes for surface runoff, subsurface flow and base flow, but
generally the surface runoff area is considered as the drainage area.
      DRY WELL. A type of infiltration practice that allows stormwater runoff
to flow directly into the ground via a bored or otherwise excavated opening in
the ground surface.
      DURATION. The time period of a rainfall event.
      ENVIRONMENT. The sum total of all the external conditions that may act
upon a living organism or community to influence its development or existence.
      ERODIBILITY INDEX (EI). The soil erodibility index (EI) provides a
numerical expression of the potential for a soil to erode considering the
physical and chemical properties of the soil and climatic conditions where it
is located. The higher the index, the greater the investment needed to maintain
the sustainability of the soil resource base if intensively cropped. It is
defined to be the  maximum of (RxKxLS)/T (from the Universal Soil Loss
Equation) and (CxI)/T (from the Wind Erosion Equation), where R is a measure of
rainfall and runoff, K is a factor of the susceptibility of the soil to water
erosion, LS is a measure of the combined effects of slope length and steepness,
C is a climatic characterization of windspeed and surface soil moisture and I
is a measure of the susceptibility of the soil to wind erosion. Erodibility
index scores equal to or greater than eight are considered highly erodible
land.
      EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice,
gravity, or other geological agents. The following terms are used to describe
different types of water erosion:
         ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal or geologic
erosion, primarily as a result of the activities of man.
         CHANNEL EROSION. An erosion process whereby the volume and velocity of
flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
         GULLY EROSION. An erosion process whereby runoff water accumulates in
narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the soil to
considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75 to 100 feet.
         RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small channels only
several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently disturbed and exposed
soils (See RILL).
         SHEET EROSION. The gradual removal of a fairly uniform layer of soil
from the land surface by runoff.
         SPLASH EROSION. The spattering of small soil particles caused by the
impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles may or
may not be subsequently removed by surface runoff.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. A practice, or a combination of practices,
to minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion at the
source and then as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being
discharged from or within a project site.
      FILTER STRIP. Usually a long, relatively narrow area (usually, 20 to 75
feet wide) of undisturbed or planted vegetation used near disturbed or
impervious surfaces to filter stormwater pollutants for the protection of
watercourses, reservoirs, or adjacent properties.
      FLOATABLE. Any solid waste that will float on the surface of the water.
      FLOOD (OR FLOODWATERS). A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
      FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel which
have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year flood. Any
normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by waster from
any natural source. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the floodway
fringe districts.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain lying outside the
floodway, which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
      FOOTING DRAIN. A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a basement
wall foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater elevation.
      GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and semisolid
wastes resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving,
or consumption of food or food materials.
      GASOLINE OUTLET. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility whose
function is the resale of fuels. The term applies to facilities that create
5,000 or more square feet of impervious surfaces or generate and average daily
traffic count of 100 vehicles per 1,000 square feet of land area.
      GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM. A computer system capable of assembling,
storing, manipulation, and displaying geographically referenced information.
This technology can be used for resource management and development planning.
      GRADE. (1) The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, etc.,
or natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage the
vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance. (2) The
finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of an embankment, or bottom of
excavation; and surface prepared to a design elevation for the support of
construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit. (3) To finish the
surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment, or bottom or excavation, or
other land area to a smooth, even condition.
      GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope
or elevation.
      GRASS. A member of the botanical family Graminae, characterized by blade-
like leaves that originate as a sheath wrapped around the stem.
      GROUNDWATER. Accumulation of underground water, natural or artificial.
The term does not include manmade underground storage or conveyance structures.
      HABITAT. The environment in which the life needs of a plant or animal are
supplied.
      HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND (HEL). Land that has an erodibility index of eight
or more.
      HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE. A numeric United States Geologic Survey code that
corresponds to a watershed area. Each area also has a text description
associated with the numeric code.
      HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
surface of the earth, and underground. A typical hydrologic study is undertaken
to compute flow rates associated with specified flood events.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater except naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or
tree limbs.
      IMPAIRED WATERS. Waters that do not or are not expected to meet
applicable water quality standards, as included on IDEM's CWA Section 303(d)
List of Impaired Waters.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops, which
prevent the infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
      INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR. A contractor or subcontractor working on an
individual lot.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has financial control of construction
activities for an individual lot.
      INFILTRATION. Passage or movement of water into the soil. Infiltration
practices include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the percolation of
runoff through the soil to groundwater. Examples include infiltration basins or
trenches, dry wells, and porous pavement.
      INGALLS TOWN ENGINEER. Professional engineer assigned by the Ingalls Town
Council as its designated representative.
      INLET. An opening into a storm drain system for the entrance of surface
stormwater runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.
      LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil,
excavating, filling, transporting and grading.
      LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed under the laws of the State of Indiana
to practice land surveying.
      LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to a
structure, where the soil meets the foundation around the outside of the
structure (including structural members such as basement walkout, patios,
decks, porches, support posts or piers, and rim of the window well.
      LOWEST FLOOR. Refers to the lowest of the following:
         (a)   The top of the basement floor;
         (b)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level
of the building;
         (c)   The top of the first floor or buildings constructed on a slab or
of buildings elevated on pilings or constructed on a crawl space with permanent
openings; or
         (d)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
floodwaters unless:
            1.   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters, by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways
and windows) having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet
of enclosed area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be
no higher than one foot above grade.
            2.   Such enclosed space shall be usable only for the parking of
vehicles or building access.
      MANHOLE. Storm drain structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm drain or enclosed structure.
      MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, one-half inch of
rainfall.
      MULCH. A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover, and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWERS. An MS4 meets all the following criteria:
(1) is a conveyance or system of conveyances owned by the state, county, town,
or other public entity; (2) discharges to waters of the U.S.; (3) is designated
or used for collecting or conveying stormwater; (4) is not a combined sewer;
and (5) is not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW).
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A permit developed by
the U.S. EPA through the Clean Water Act. In Indiana, the permitting process
has been delegated to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal stormwater
quality.
      NATURAL DRAINAGE. The flow patterns of stormwater runoff over the land in
its pre-development state.
      NUTRIENTS(S). (1) A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction
of organisms. (2) In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates)
that promote growth of algae and bacteria.
      OPEN DRAIN. A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that
conveys drainage water.
      OPEN SPACE. Any land area devoid of any disturbed or impervious surfaces
created by industrial, commercial, residential, agricultural, or other manmade
activities.
      OUTFALL. The point, location, or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
      OUTLET. The point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake,
tidewater, or artificial drain.
      PEAK DISCHARGE (OR PEAK FLOW). The maximum instantaneous flow from a
given storm condition at a specific location.
      PERCOLATION. The movement of water through soil.
      PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform density of 70%
across the disturbed area, or vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that will ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding, or
other movement.
      PERVIOUS. Allowing movement of water.
      POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance
including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, or container from which pollutants are or maybe discharged
(P.L. 92-500, Section 502[14]).
      POROUS PAVEMENT. A type of infiltration practice to improve the quality
and reduce the quantity of stormwater runoff via the use of manmade, pervious
pavement which allows runoff to percolate through the pavement and into
underlying soils.
      PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the State of
Indiana to practice professional engineer.
      PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
      PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit a stormwater permit
application, and required to comply with the terms of this chapter, including a
developer or a person who has financial and operational control of construction
activities, and project plans and specifications, including the ability to make
modifications to those plans and specifications.
      RAIN GARDEN. A vegetative practice used to alter impervious surfaces,
such as roofs, into pervious surfaces for absorption and treatment of rainfall.
      RECEIVING STREAM, RECEIVING CHANNEL, OR RECEIVING WATER. The body of
water into which runoff or effluent is discharged. The term does not include
private drains, unnamed conveyances, retention and detention basins, or
constructed wetlands used as treatment.
      RECHARGE. Replenishment of groundwater reservoirs by infiltration and
transmission from the outcrop of an aquifer or from permeable soils.
      REDEVELOPMENT. Alterations of a property that change a site or building
in such a way that there is disturbances of one acre or more of land. The term
does not include such activities as exterior remodeling.
      REFUELING AREA. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area whose
function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. The discharge or elevation associated with the 100-year
flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
accepted by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The "regulatory flood" is also known as the "base
flood".
      REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY.
      RELEASE RATE. The amount of stormwater release from a stormwater control
facility per unit of time.
      RESERVOIR. A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other space
used for storage, regulation or control of water, which may be either permanent
or temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
      RETENTION. The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving the
development site. May be temporary or permanent.
      RETENTION BASIN. A type of storage practice, that has not positive
outlet, used to retain stormwater runoff for an indefinite amount of time.
Runoff from this type of basin is removed only by infiltration through a porous
bottom or by evaporation.
      RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a return period of 100
years has a one percent probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one
year.
      RIPARIAN HABITAT. A land area adjacent to a waterbody that supports
animal and plant life associated with that waterbody.
      RIPARIAN ZONE. Of, on, or pertaining to the banks of a stream, river, or
pond.
      RUNOFF. That portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on
the land surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance systems.
      RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the storm drain system to the total amount of
rain falling. A coefficient of one-half implies that 50% of the rain falling on
a given surface appears as stormwater runoff.
      SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site by origin by
air, water, gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other
unconsolidated materials either on the ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
      SENSITIVE AREA. Includes highly erodible soils, wetlands, threatened or
endangered species habitat, outstanding waters, impaired waters, recreational
waters, and surface drinking water sources.
      SENSITIVE WATER. A waterbody in need of priority protection of
remediation base on its providing habitat for threatened or endangered species,
usage as a public water supply intake, relevant community value, usage for full
body contact recreation, exceptional use classification as found in 327 I.A.C.
2-1-11(b), and outstanding State resource water classification as found in 327
I.A.C. 2-1-2(3) and 327 I.A.C. 2-1.5-19(b).
      SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on
which land disturbing activity is to be performed.
      SLOPE. Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured as
a numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is
commonly the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance
(rise) - e.g., 2:1. However, the preferred method for designation of slopes is
to clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (Length {'
{'}L{'}'} and Width {'{'}W{'}'} components for horizontal angles). Also not
that according to international standards (Metric), the slopes  are presented
as the vertical or width component shown on the numerator - e.g., 1V: 2H. Slope
expressions in this chapter follow the common presentation of slopes - e.g., 2:
1 with the metric presentation shown in parenthesis - e.g., (1V: 2H). Slopes
can also be expressed in "percents". Slopes given in percents are always
expressed as (100*V/H) - e.g., a 2:1 (1V: 2H) slope is a 50% slope.
      SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A public organization created under
state law as a special purpose district to develop and carry out a program of
soil, water, and related resource conservation, use, and development within its
boundaries. A subdivision of state government with a local governing body,
established under I.C. 14-32.
      SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, debris, or other discarded material.
      SPILL. The unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping,
leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of petroleum, hazardous
substances, extremely hazardous substances, or objectionable substances. The
term does not include releases to impervious surfaces when the substance does
not migrate off the surface or penetrate the surface and enter the soil.
      STORM DURATION. The length of time that water may be stored in any
stormwater control facility, computed from the time water first begins to be
stored.
      STORM EVENT. An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within a
given period of time. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour duration storm
event is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
      STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a storm drain.
      STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
      STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or man-made, used for
conducting stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
      STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A plan developed to minimize the
impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction activities.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
address stormwater runoff quality.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. The water derived from rains falling within a
tributary basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in
channels or conduits.
      STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road.
      SUBDIVISION. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided into
lots, whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements, for the purpose of
sale or lease as part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
      SUBSURFACE DRAIN. A pervious backfilled trench, usually containing stone
and perforated pipe, for intercepting groundwater or seepage.
      SURFACE RUNOFF. Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of roofs,
streets, the ground, etc., and is not absorbed or retained by that surface but
collects and runs off.
      SWALE. An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least
seasonally wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing
water. Swales conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may provide
some groundwater recharge.
      TEMPORARY STABILIZATION. The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding, or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch, or other non-erosive material applied at a uniform density of
70% across the disturbed area.
      TILE DRAIN. Pipe made of perforated plastic, burned clay, concrete, or
similar material, laid to a designated grade and depth, to collect and carry
excess water from the soil.
      TOPOGRAPHIC MAP. Graphical portrayal of the topographic features of a
land area, showing both the horizontal distances between the features and their
elevations above a given datum.
      TOPOGRAPHY. The representation of a portion of the earth's surface
showing natural and man-made features of a give locality such as rivers,
streams, ditches, lakes, roads, buildings and most importantly, variations in
ground elevations for the terrain of the area.
      TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of storm quality, including erosion and sediment control as may be
demonstrated by state registration, professional certification, experience, or
completion of coursework that enable the individual to make judgments regarding
stormwater control or treatment and monitoring.
      URBAN DRAIN. A drain defined as "urban drain" in I.C. 36-9-27-67.
      URBANIZATION. The development, change or improvement of any parcel of
land consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational or public utility purposes.
      VEGETATED SWALE. A type of vegetative practice used to filter stormwater
runoff via a vegetated, shallow-channel conveyance.
      WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical, and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
      WATER RESOURCES. The supply of groundwater and surface water in a given
area.
      WATERBODY. Any accumulation of water, surface, or underground, natural or
artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water pollution
control facilities.
      WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or man-made
drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      WATERSHED. The region drained by or contributing water to a specific
point that could be along a stream, lake or other stormwater facilities.
Watersheds are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic
modeling.
      WATERSHED AREA. All land and water within the confines of a drainage
divide. See also WATERSHED.
      WEIR. An obstruction placed in an open channel over which waters flows,
often through a specifically shaped opening or notch. The weir is used to
measure the flow of water and to regulate and ensure a uniform flow rate.
      WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
APPENDIX B: MS4 BOUNDARY MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-714.png]
 
(Ord. - -, passed 12-20-21)
CHAPTER 52: UNIFORM MUNICIPAL UTILITY BILLING PROGRAM
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Utility billing policies and procedures
   
52.03   Utility billing
   
52.04   Rate ordinances
   
52.05   Monthly utility bill
   
52.06   Monthly utility billing rate is determined by the customer's use
characteristics
   
52.07   Extra service bills
   
52.08   Billing cycle
   
52.09   Application of payments when payment is less than total billing
   
52.10   Delinquent customers
   
52.11   Municipal utility service application
   
52.12   Disputed utility bills
   
52.13   Promissory agreement
   
52.14   Service charges
   
52.15   Schedule of nonrecurring rates and charges
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILL. The statement of account for municipal utility services rendered by
the town to a customer and due and payable to the town by the customer.
   CUSTOMER. The deeded owner and/or any renter/tenant of the property
receiving trash and/or water service and/or stormwater service.
   DELINQUENT CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, corporation or entity who fails to
pay any current charges or portion thereof for any municipal utility by the due
date of the bill.
   DEPOSIT.
      (1)   An amount specified in the town's various rate ordinances that is
charged to any customer setting up service in their name and customers that
have been shut off for water service reconnected that do not have a current
deposit or fully funded water deposit held by the town.
      (2)   Upon termination of water service, either express or implied, the
town will apply any water meter deposit towards any balance due on any account
pertaining to water, stormwater, hydrant fee, or trash collection services,
before issuing a refund of any customer water deposit being held by the town.
   DISCONNECT. The water services shall not be made available to any person,
firm, corporation, or entity due to non-payment.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY. The water, trash or stormwater departments or system of
the Town of Ingalls, Indiana.
   PAST DUE AMOUNT. Any current charges or portion thereof for any municipal
utility which remain unpaid past the due date of the bill on which such current
charges first appear.
   PROMISSORY AGREEMENT.
      (1)   A contract between customer and the town allowing the customer to
make payments to the town to pay any current or past due charges or portion
thereof for any municipal utility within the time period stated in the
agreement made between the customer and the town.
      (2)   As stated in the promissory note (referred to as "promissory
agreement") if the customer does not pay as agreed as that contract states
payment will be made, then that customer is immediately in default and since
that customer has already been notified of their delinquent status, the town
will, without further notice, take immediate collection action. This action may
include, but will not be limited, to the disconnection of water service to the
customer, the filing of a sewer/storm lien on the customer and/or the turning
over of the account to a collection agency for collection.
      (3)   Promissory agreements will be for equal monthly payments over a
time period not to exceed 12 months.
   TOWN. The Town of Ingalls, Indiana, the Town Council of Ingalls, Indiana,
the Board of Directors of the Ingalls Municipal Utilities, and any municipal
subdivision or department of the town of any designated agent authorized to act
on behalf of the town.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.02 UTILITY BILLING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The following policies and procedure shall govern the provision of municipal
utilities of the Town of Ingalls, Indiana.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.03 UTILITY BILLING.
   There is hereby created a utility billing section within the Ingalls
Municipal Utilities. The billing section shall be responsible for the
calculation and rendering of all municipal utility bills. The utility billing
section shall maintain account records for each customer that includes the
customer's name, billing address, service address, current charges and account
history including past due charges, penalties and fees.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.04 RATE ORDINANCES.
   The town shall establish, maintain and periodically revise a water, hydrant
fee and a trash and stormwater rate ordinance. Said ordinances shall contain
all the various fees, rates and charges that the municipal utility will charge
to its customers. All municipal utility charges shall be calculated in
accordance with the current water and trash/recycling and stormwater rate
ordinances applicable to the municipal utilities or services rendered to a
customer.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.05 MONTHLY UTILITY BILL.
   The utility billing section of the town shall provide each municipal utility
customer with a monthly water bill, a monthly trash/recycling bill and a
monthly stormwater bill, which shall include the charge incurred by the
customer for each monthly water, trash/recycling and stormwater services
charges. The customer is responsible for paying each monthly bill in a timely
manner. Bills for municipal utility services shall be rendered and paid
monthly. The monthly bill for all municipal services may be on one billing
statement.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.06 MONTHLY UTILITY BILLING RATE IS DETERMINED BY THE CUSTOMER'S USE
CHARACTERISTICS.
   (A)   The town's water, trash and stormwater rate ordinances may contain the
provision for both monthly flat rates and monthly metered rates.
   (B)   All residential use customers will be billed a monthly rate for water
service, trash service, and stormwater service in accordance with the water,
trash/recycling and stormwater rate ordinances.
   (C)   All non-residential use customers will be billed a monthly rate for
water service, trash/recycling service, and stormwater service in accordance
with the water, trash/recycling and stormwater rate ordinances. These rate
charges will be determined by the water use characteristics of the non-
residential customer or in another manner approved by the town.
   (D)   The town and its agents have the power, right and ability to
investigate the water, trash/recycling and stormwater use characteristics of
any customer at any time and modify the customer's billing rate based on that
investigation, in accordance with the water, trash/recycling and stormwater
rate ordinances.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.07 EXTRA SERVICE BILLS.
   Billings for any extra services, installation charges, penalties, collection
fees or other special charges shall be rendered in accordance with the
applicable utility or service rate resolution and shall be sent either as a
separate bill or included as a separate line item on a consolidated billing
statement.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.08 BILLING CYCLE.
   (A)   Usage period. The usage period is the month or any part of the month
during which water and/or stormwater service is provided or is available to be
provided to a customer of the utility or the month or part of the month that a
customer's property is physically connected to the town's water and/or trash
and/or stormwater system.
   (B)   Bill date. The bill date shall be the date that the bill is printed
and be approximately from the seventeenth to the twenty-second day of the month
following the usage period.
   (C)   Billing period. The billing period is the time between meter readings
for the water utility and from bill date to bill date for the stormwater,
hydrant fee, and trash/recycling utility charges. Billings will be distributed
by the town to each customer of the town on a monthly basis through the
issuance of a monthly bill. Each monthly bill will state the date the bill is
due and the date after which the bill is considered delinquent and delinquent
fees will be added. The total bill shall be due and payable by the close of
business no later than the tenth day of the month after the billing date. The
tenth day of the month following the billing date shall be known as the due
date. If the due date falls on a holiday, Saturday, or Sunday, the due date
does not change.
   (D)   Delinquent date. If a bill is not paid on or before the close of
business of the due date, a late charge equal to 10% of the current bill amount
shall be added to the previously billed charges. The first business day
following the due date shall be known as the delinquent date.
   (E)   Lien notification date. If a stormwater bill is not paid on or before
the close of business on the sixtieth business day following the due date and
the stormwater bill exceeds $50, the town will send an "Intention to File Lien"
letter to the property address. If an owner of a non-owner occupied property
has provided its name and address to the town with a request to be notified of
billing delinquencies, a copy of the "Intention to File Lien" letter will also
be sent to this address. If the lien notification date falls on a holiday,
Saturday, or Sunday, the "Intention to File Lien" letter shall then be
distributed on the first business day following the holiday or weekend.
   (F)   Lien file date. If a stormwater bill is not paid on or before ten
business days following the lien notification date, the town or the town's
attorney (or other town official) shall file a lien on the property at its
earliest convenience. The date ten business days following the lien
notification date shall be known as the lien file date. If the lien file date
falls on a holiday, Saturday, or Sunday, then the first date that liens will be
filed shall then occur on the first business day following the holiday or
weekend. However, in no event will a lien be filed for an amount that is less
than $50.
   (G)   Water service disconnection date. If a water bill remains unpaid 60
days after the due date, the town will hang a door hanger notice on the door of
the home. The door hanger will be a notice of intention to disconnect water
service and will state the date of the intended disconnection. Failure to
receive a door hanger does not void non-payment or disconnection. If a water
bill is not paid before the stated date of the disconnect notice or if the
stated date falls upon a holiday or weekend and the bill is not paid by the
close of the next regular business day, the water service of the customer is
subject to disconnection without additional notice. All water bills subject to
disconnection shall be disconnected by the town utility personnel as soon as
practicable in the order determined by the town utility personnel to be the
most efficient and without discrimination or prejudice.
   (H)   Town Council President or his/her designee as hearing officer on
application for extension on disconnection of service. A person owing an unpaid
water bill may appeal in person, by phone, or in writing, either hand-delivered
or delivered by U.S. Mail, first class postage prepaid, to the offices of the
water utility for an extension of the date when water service would be subject
to discontinuation, setting forth in detail the extraordinary hardship or other
unavoidable circumstances whereby the delinquent bill cannot be paid within the
allowed period. The Town Council President or his/her designee, acting as the
hearing officer for the extension request, may grant or deny such request, in
whole or in part (payment extensions may not exceed ten days). The hearing
officer may require partial payment of the delinquent bill in return for
granting an extension. The hearing officer may also require the signing of a
promissory agreement in lieu of disconnection.
   (I)   Appeal of hearing officer's denial of disconnection extension.
      (1)   A person owing an unpaid water bill may appeal the determination of
the Town Council President or his or her designee acting as hearing officer in
§
52.08(H). The appeal may be in writing or in person and will be made to the
Town Council, by and through the Ingalls Clerk-Treasurer, which shall act on
the appeal in its capacity as the Governing Board of the Ingalls Municipal
Utilities. The written appeal request shall set forth in detail:
         (a)   The extraordinary hardship or other unavoidable circumstances
whereby the delinquent bill cannot be fully paid within the allowed period;
         (b)   The specific relief requested, and the reason(s) that the person
owing an unpaid water bill believes that the adverse determination of the
hearing officer was arbitrary or capricious. The Town Council shall consider
such appeal at its next scheduled Town Council meeting. Any contemplated
discontinuation of water service shall be deferred pending the determination of
the appeal by the Town Council. The Town Council in its appeal determination
may:
            1.   Deny the appeal; or
            2.   Grant the appeal in whole or in part; and
            3.   May require partial payment of the delinquent bill in return
for granting the extension.
      (2)   Upon denial of the appeal, the delinquent user shall be given 48
hours' notice of the appeal denial prior to the discontinuation of service.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.09 APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS WHEN PAYMENT IS LESS THAN TOTAL BILLING.
   (A)   When a utility payment is received by the town from a customer and
that payment is less than the amount billed, the customer's payments shall be
applied as follows:
   (B)   Any amount in arrears will be paid first and then any remaining
payment will be applied to current charges. Payments for charges in arrears
will be first to trash/recycling service until that balance is paid in full,
any remaining balance of the payment will next be paid to water service until
that balance is paid in full, and any remaining balance will then be applied to
stormwater service. After the charges in arrears are paid, any remaining
balance of payment will be applied to current charges in the same manner and
sequence as described for payment of charges in arrears.
   (C)   This application of payments shall continue in all cases, including
those instances where the customer has entered into a payment plan and/or
promissory agreement with the town. In the case of a payment plan or promissory
agreement, each payment is first applied to any existing arrearage, then to the
fee for trash/recycling service followed by the fee for water service and
finally for the payment towards the outstanding stormwater fee. Funds remaining
after the most recent month's billing is paid shall be applied to the charges
in arrears as described in the previous division or per the specific terms of
the payment plan or promissory agreement.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.10 DELINQUENT CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Any customer's bills that remains unpaid at 4:00 p.m. on the tenth day
after the billing date herein referred to as the "due date" shall be considered
delinquent. Any customer who is delinquent may be contacted by the town in an
attempt to collect payment for the delinquent bill. The town may also refer
delinquent customers to a collection agency or attorney for collection on a
case-by-case basis. Delinquent accounts are also subject to the filing of liens
in accordance with the town's billing procedure. Delinquent accounts referred
to a collection agency or attorney for collection may no longer be paid in the
normal manner, but must be paid through the collection agency or the attorney.
   (B)   Delinquent accounts that have been filed as liens can no longer be
paid in the normal manner, but must be paid to the county in the manner
proscribed by the county for lien payments. Lien filings will include
reasonable collection and attorney fees.
   (C)   Delinquency may cause a deposit to be required. This procedure is
described in the definitions portion of this policy under the caption
"deposit".
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.11 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICE APPLICATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to receive any municipal utility
service or combination thereof shall make application for said service. The
application shall be on such form(s) as may now or hereinafter be prescribed by
the town. The application shall include the applicant's name, spouse name,
service address, mailing address, e-mail address, landlord's name, telephone
number and personal identification number (e.g. social security number,
driver's license number and date of birth) or federal identification number
(businesses) and signature of the party responsible for payment. Persons
applying on behalf of others or acting as an agent for others may provide the
required information provided such agent agrees to assume responsibility for
the person, firm or corporation upon whose behalf they are applying. Each
service location shall be considered a separate account. The town may request
to make a copy of the applicant's driver's license or other government issued
identification in order to confirm identity.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.12 DISPUTED UTILITY BILLS.
   (A)   A customer may request a face-to-face conference regarding any dispute
over a disputed utility bill or other service matter before the Town Council,
or its designee, to hear such matters. All such matter will be resolved in
accordance with I.C. 8-1-2-103, I.C. 8-1.5-3.5, the written polices of the town
and the judgment of the Town Council.
   (B)   Only the Town Council, acting as the Board of Directors of the Ingalls
Municipal Utilities, has the ability to modify, change, or mitigate a utility
bill.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.13 PROMISSORY AGREEMENT.
   Any customer may request of the Town Council President or his/her designee
acting as the Hearing Officer to enter into a payment plan and promissory note
as described in §
52.08(H). If the customer enters into such a promissory agreement and does not
pay pursuant to the terms of such agreement, then the customer will immediately
be deemed in default and because the customer has already been notified of
their delinquent status, the town will, without further notice, take immediate
collection action, which may include, but will not be limited to, disconnection
of water service to the customer, termination of trash/recycling service to the
customer, the filing of a stormwater lien upon the customer's property and/or
referring the account to a collection agency for collection.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.14 SERVICE CHARGES.
   The following, non-inclusive, additional fees shall be charged for services
provided by the municipal utility. The exact amount of fees and charges are
included in the town water, trash/recycling and storm rate ordinances:
   (A)   Returned check fees.
      (1)   Twenty-five dollars for all checks that are returned, or as stated
in the town ordinances.
      (2)   Returned checks, the customer shall pay, by cash, credit card,
debit card or money order, the amount of the returned check(s) plus the
corresponding returned check fee.
      (3)   After two returned checks in any 12-month period, the customer
shall pay all current and future payments by cash, credit card, debit card or
money order.
      (4)   In its pursuit of collection for returned checks, the town will
follow Indiana Code (I.C. 26-2-7 and/or I.C. 34-24-3), which in certain cases
allow the collection of treble damages and attorneys' fees.
   (B)   Reconnection fee.
      (1)   Twenty-five per reconnection, or as stated in the town ordinances.
Once water service is disconnected for nonpayment, this additional service fee
will be charged to the customer for the reconnection of water service.
   (C)   Meter tampering.
      (1)   A nonrecurring charge of $250 shall be made to the customer's
account should the customer tamper with the water meter in any manner. In
addition, a charge equal to the cost to the town of any repairs caused by meter
tampering will be billed to the customer plus the cost of the estimated water
usage not recorded as a result of the meter tampering. Second or subsequent
events of meter tampering will result in the discontinuation of water service.
   (D)   Tap fee. The cost of an initial customer tapping onto or connecting to
the town's utility system shall be as stated in the current water rate
ordinance.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 52.15 SCHEDULE OF NONRECURRING RATES AND CHARGES.
   In addition to the rates and charges set forth in the applicable rate
ordinance, the following schedule of nonrecurring rates and charges shall
apply.
RATES AND CHARGES
RATES AND CHARGES
Connection or Tap On Fees: To be charged for all new taps on the town's water mains.
                                                                                 Actual
                                                                                 cost,
                                                                                 but
   All meter sizes                                                            not
                                                                                 less
                                                                                 than
                                                                                 $900
Inspection Fee: To be charged for all new taps for inspection to verify compliance with
the town's procedures and specifications.
   5/8 or 3/4 inch meter                                                   $50
                                                                                 $75
   All other meter sizes                                                      per
                                                                                 hour
Availability Fee: To be charged for all new water service.
   Per number of EDUs                                                         $1,300
Flushing Credit
   A flushing credit will be applied to customers requesting to flush their
lines due to brown water. The flushing credit will not be applied any more       $3
frequently than once every 12 months or as approved by the Ingalls Municipal
Water Utility Board.
Temporary Service Fee
   Customers requesting a temporary water connection of no more than 24 hours
water usage will be assessed this fee for each temporary reconnection. The
charge includes up to 500 gallons of water usage and water usage over 500        $3
gallons will be charged at the scheduled metered rate charge to the customer in
addition to the temporary service fee rate.
Bad Check Charge: To be charged on all returned checks.
   Per check                                                                  $25
Late Payment Charge
                                                                                 10% on
   To be charged on all new delinquent bills.                                 the
                                                                                 billed
                                                                                 amount
 
RATES AND CHARGES
RATES AND CHARGES
Meter Deposit: To be charged on all new water service and on all accounts that have been
reconnected after being disconnected for nonpayment.
   5/8 or 3/4 inch meter                                                       $100
                                                                                  Two times the
   All other meter sizes                                                       estimated
                                                                                  monthly water
                                                                                  bill
Meter Pull and Check: To be charged for all customer requests to pull and check the water meter
to test its accuracy.
   First time (and all subsequent pulls and tests where the meter is proved to No charge
register over 2% from accurate).
   Second time within 12 months of first pull (where meter is proved to registe$20
within 2% of accurate).
Reconnection Fee: To be charged to reconnect water service where water service has been
disconnected for nonpayment. (Reconnections will only be made when an occupant is present to
verify reconnection will not damage property).
   During normal business hours and work days                                  $25
   Outside normal business hours and work days                                 $50
Service Call Fee: To be charged whenever service personnel have been called to customer's
location for any reason not specified under other fees in the water rate ordinance.
   Non-emergency outside normal business hours and work days                   $50
Meter Tampering Charges: To be charged to customers tampering with the meter for any reason.
                                                                                  Cost of any
                                                                                  damage and
                                                                                  estimated
   First instance                                                              water usage,
                                                                                  but not to be
                                                                                  less than
                                                                                  $250.
                                                                                  Permanent
   Second instance                                                             disconnection
                                                                                  of water
                                                                                  service.
Unauthorized Use of Hydrant and Hydrant Meter Tampering: To be charged to customers for
unauthorized use of hydrants and for hydrant meter tampering.
                                                                                  $500 plus
                                                                                  cost of any
   Each instance                                                               damage and
                                                                                  estimated
                                                                                  water usage.
 
(Ord. - -, passed 4-26-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   BICYCLES
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   GOLF CARTS
      
73.   HEAVY TRUCK TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 70: BICYCLES
Section
   
70.01   Licenses
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 LICENSES.
   (A)   All bicycles owned or operated within the town shall be registered and
licensed. Every bicycle shall be registered with the Police Department, who
shall inspect each bicycle to ensure that it is safe to operate and has proper
tires in good condition, no cracked or broken frame, proper pedals, proper
brakes either front or rear wheel, a rear reflector and lights if ridden either
before sunrise or after sunset. The license fee will be $1 for one year.
Registration shall begin May 1 of each year and continue for 30 days. All those
who fail to register their bicycles during May or within 30 days after
acquiring a bicycle or moving into the town will be fined $5.
   (B)   These regulations apply to bicycles operated upon any highway, street,
path or location including the property of the bicycle owner within the town.
(1983 Code, § 9-4-1-93) (Ord. 75-7, passed 5-2-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations, see I.C. 9-4-1-93
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   All those who fail to register their bicycles during May or within 30
days after acquiring a bicycle or moving into the town will be fined $5.
(1983 Code, § 9-4-1-93) (Ord. 75-7, passed 5-2-1981)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   Speed limits
      
III.   Weight limits
      
IV.   Parking
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The Council, acting within the reasonable exercise of its police power,
hereby adopts the following regulations governing certain roads and streets
under its jurisdiction.
   (A)   Preferential streets. 
      (1)   All streets in the town running in a north-south direction shall be
preferential streets, except:
         (a)   Second Avenue;
         (b)   Fifth Avenue;
         (c)   Sixth Avenue; and
         (d)   Jones Street.
      (2)   North-south traffic shall stop before entering or crossing Second,
Fifth and Sixth Avenues.
   (B)   Stopping at stop signs.
      (1)   The purpose of this division (B) is to regulate compliance with the
stop signs directing the flow of traffic on public streets within the town for
the protection of public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   Whenever a stop sign is erected at or near an intersection, and
duly ordained by an ordinance of the Town Council, every driver of a vehicle
shall come to a complete stop:
         (a)   Parallel to the stop sign;
         (b)   Before a marked stop line; or
         (c)   Before a marked crosswalk prior to cautiously entering into the
intersection, unless traffic at the intersection is controlled by a police
officer, in which even every driver shall comply with the direction of the
police officer.
      (3)   An officer of the Police Department may issue a citation for a
failure to comply with a duly erected stop sign within the corporate boundaries
of the town.
      (4)   Any person operating a vehicle on the following shall come to a
complete stop before proceeding into the intersection, and shall not proceed
until it is safe to do so:
Street/Road Direction(s) At Intersection With
Street/Road         Direction(s)              At Intersection With
Alftone Street      Eastbound and westbound   Third Avenue
Alfonte Street      Northbound                Broadway Street
Alfonte Street      Northbound                Pendleton Pike
Alfonte Street      Northbound and southbound Broadway Street
Alfonte Street      Northbound and southbound Fifth Avenue
Alfonte Street      Northbound and southbound First Avenue
Alfonte Street      Northbound and southbound Menden Road
August Drive        Northbound                Wymm Lane
August Drive        Southbound                Charlotte Drive
C.R. 650 West       Northbound and southbound Fall Creek Drive
C.R. 650 West       Northbound and southbound C.R. 800 South
C.R. 650 West       Southbound                Pendleton Pike
C.R. 750 West       Northbound                State Road 67
C.R. 800 South      Eastbound and westbound   C.R. 650 West
C.R. 800 South      Eastbound and westbound   State Road 13
C.R. 1000 West      Northbound and southbound C.R. 800 South
Charlotte Drive     Eastbound                 C.R. 750 West
Charlotte Drive     Westbound                 Woods Drive
East Street         Northbound                Pendleton Pike
East Street         Northbound and southbound Seventh Avenue
East Street         Southbound                Broadway Street
Evening Drive       Northbound                C.R. 800 South
Fall Creek Drive    Eastbound and westbound   C.R. 650 West
Fifth Avenue        Eastbound and westbound   Alfonte Street
Fifth Avenue        Eastbound and westbound   Meridian Street
Fifth Avenue        Westbound                 Huston Street
First Avenue        Eastbound                 Manifold Street
First Avenue        Eastbound and westbound   Alfonte Street
First Avenue        Eastbound and westbound   Meridian Street
First Avenue        Eastbound and westbound   Randall Street
First Avenue        Eastbound and westbound   Swain Street
First Avenue        Westbound                 Huston Street
Grace Drive         Northbound                Wymm Lane
Grace Drive         Southbound                Charlotte Drive
Huston Street       Northbound                Broadway Street
Huston Street       Northbound                First Avenue
Huston Street       Northbound and southbound Lick Creek Drive
Huston Street       Northbound and southbound Pendleton Pike
Huston Street       Northbound and southbound Washington Street
Inman Drive         Northbound                Broadway Street
Inman Drive         Northbound                Myrenia Avenue
Inter-Park Drive    Eastbound                 At its intersection with State
                                              Road 13
Jones Street        Northbound                Pendleton Pike
Jones Street        Northbound and southbound Seventh Avenue
Jones Street        Southbound                Sixth Avenue
Lick Creek Drive    Eastbound                 Alfonte Street
Lick Creek Drive    Eastbound and westbound   Huston Street
Manifold Street     Northbound                Broadway Street
Manifold Street     Northbound                Pendleton Pike
Manifold Street     Northbound and southbound Fifth Avenue
Manifold Street     Northbound and southbound First Avenue
Manifold Street     Northbound and southbound Second Avenue
Manifold Street     Northbound and southbound Sixth Avenue
Manifold Street     Northbound and southbound Washington Street
Mansfield Way       Northbound                Rose Lane
Maple Street        Northbound                Pendleton Pike
Maple Street        Northbound and southbound Sixth Avenue
Maple Street        Southbound                Fifth Avenue
Menden Road         Eastbound and westbound   Alfonte Street
Menden Road         Eastbound and westbound   Huston Street
Menden Road         Eastbound and westbound   South Randall Street
Meridian Street     Northbound                Pendleton Pike
Meridian Street     Northbound and southbound Broadway Street
Meridian Street     Northbound and southbound Fifth Avenue
Meridian Street     Northbound and southbound First Avenue
Meridian Street     Northbound and southbound Washington Street
Meridian Street     Southbound                Menden Road
Midsummer Boulevard Northbound                C.R. 800 South
Orbit Way           Westbound                 State Road 13
Randall Street      Northbound                Broadway Street
Randall Street      Northbound                Sixth Avenue
Randall Street      Northbound and southbound Fifth Avenue
Randall Street      Northbound and southbound Washington Street
Randall Street      Southbound                Menden Road
Rose Lane           Eastbound                 Woods Drive
Second Avenue       Eastbound                 Manifold Street
Second Avenue       Eastbound                 Meridian Street
Second Avenue       Eastbound and westbound   Swain Street
Second Avenue       Northbound and southbound Randall Street
Second Avenue       Westbound                 Alfonte Street
Second Avenue       Westbound                 Huston Street
Second Avenue       Westbound                 Meridian Street
Seventh Avenue      Eastbound                 East Street
Seventh Avenue      Eastbound and westbound   Jones Street
Seventh Avenue      Eastbound and westbound   Willow Street
Seventh Avenue      Westbound                 Maple Street
Sixth Avenue        Eastbound                 East Street
Sixth Avenue        Eastbound and westbound   Maple Street
Sixth Avenue        Eastbound and westbound   Swain Street
Sixth Avenue        Eastbound and westbound   Willow Street
Sixth Avenue        Westbound                 Meridian Street
Spirit Drive        Northbound                Rose Lane
Spirit Drive        Southbound                Mansfield Way
Swain Street        Northbound                Broadway Street
Swain Street        Northbound                Pendleton Pike
Swain Street        Northbound and southbound Fifth Avenue
Swain Street        Northbound and southbound First Avenue
Swain Street        Northbound and southbound Second Avenue
Swain Street        Northbound and southbound Sixth Avenue
Swain Street        Northbound and southbound Washington Street
Swain Street        Southbound                Menden Road
Third Avenue        Eastbound and westbound   Alfonte Street
Third Avenue        Eastbound and westbound   Manifold Street
Third Avenue        Eastbound and westbound   Meridian Street
Third Avenue        Westbound                 Huston Street
Third Avenue        Westbound                 Swain Street
Washington Street   Eastbound and westbound   Alfonte Street
Washington Street   Eastbound and westbound   Meridian Street
Washington Street   Eastbound and westbound   Randall Street
Washington Street   Eastbound and westbound   Swain Street
Washington Street   Westbound                 Huston Street
Willow Street       Northbound                Pendleton Pike
Willow Street       Northbound and southbound Sixth Avenue
Woods Drive         Southbound                Mansfield Way
Wymm Lane           Southbound                Charlotte Drive
Wymm Lane           Westbound                 Woods Drive
 
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating this schedule shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $50 for the first violation and $75 for the second violation. All
fines shall be paid to the Ordinance Violations Bureau, which shall render to
the person making payment a receipt stating the amount and purpose for which
the fine has been paid, a duplicate of which shall be made a part of the
records of the town.
      (2)   There is hereby added to this penalty the additional penalty of
attorney’s fees incurred by the town if civil action through a court of
competent jurisdiction is required in order to enforce the provisions of this
schedule.
(1983 Code, § 9-4-1-28) (Ord. 2011-9, passed - -; Ord. 2011B, passed - -; Ord.
2012-1, passed - -; Ord. 2012-4, passed - -; Ord. 22, passed 6-21-1951; Ord.
passed 11-18-1972; Ord. 73-1, passed 12-18-1972; Ord. 81-2, passed 10-10-1981;
Ord. passed 11-7-1981; Ord. 88-8, passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 89-9, passed 9-11-
1989; Ord. 1997-4, passed 1-27-1997; Ord. 1998-1, passed 1-12-1998; Ord. 1999-
1, passed 3-8-1999; Ord. 1999-3, passed 5-10-1999; Ord. 1999-6, passed 9-27-
1999; Ord. 2004-3, passed 1-26-2004; Ord. 2009-04, passed 6-8-2009; Ord.
042715A, passed 7-27-2015; Ord. 103017B, passed 10-30-2017; Ord. 040918, passed
4-9-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Powers of local authorities, see I.C. 9-4-1-28
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Vehicles proceeding on any other streets or roads within the town not
set forth below shall not travel at a speed in excess of 25 mph.
 
Street Description Speed Limit
       Between
C.R.   Reformatory
650    Road and    45 mph
West   Fall Creek
       Drive
       North side
C.R.   of Maple    45 mph
650    Ridge to     
West   Interstate
       69
       Vehicles
       proceeding
       northbound
       or
       southbound
       from Fall
C.R.   Creek Drive 25 mph between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on all days while
650    to a point  school is in session, which is designated as a “school zone”
West   500 feet     
       north of
       Maple Ridge
       Elementary
       School and
       Fall Creek
       Drive
       Vehicles
       proceeding
C.R.   westbound
800    from State  45 mph
South  Road 13 to
       the Madison
       County line
 
   (B)   Any person who violates this schedule shall be fined upon the
following schedule, all of which shall be paid through the Ordinance Violations
Bureau:
      (1)   From one to ten miles per hour over the designated speed limit:
$50;
      (2)   From 11 to 20 miles per hour over the designated speed limit: $75;
and
      (3)   From 21 or more miles per hour over the designated speed limit:
$100.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 4-15-2011; Ord. 042715B, passed 6-8-2015)
SCHEDULE III. WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Any truck or other commercial vehicle having a gross weight of more
than four tons shall not be driven, pulled, drawn or pushed over, upon or along
the streets of the town, with the exception of:
      (1)   Alfonte Road from Mendon Avenue to Pendleton Avenue (Reformatory
Road); and
      (2)   Meridian Street from Mendon Avenue to Pendleton Avenue (Reformatory
Road).
   (B)   This limitation shall be designated by appropriate signs placed at
appropriate places on the streets. Deliveries by commercial vehicles shall be
allowed within a two-block radius of the routes specified herein.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall be fined
$200.
(1983 Code, § 9-4-1-125) (Ord. passed 9-2-1969; Ord. passed 8-20-1973; Ord.
passed 12-12-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Road weight limits, see I.C. 9-4-1-125
SCHEDULE IV. PARKING.
   (A)    Parking of any vehicle, or any combination of vehicle, trailer,
equipment, and/or vehicle and its load, whose gross weight individually or in
combination is in excess of 10,000 pounds shall be prohibited on any public
street, alley, or public way within the incorporated limits of Ingalls,
Indiana.
   (B)   Anyone violating the provisions of this schedule shall be fined
through the Ingalls Ordinance Violations Bureau as set forth below:
      (1)   First offense: $25.
      (2)   Second offense within 12 calendar months of the first offense: $50.
      (3)   Third offense within 12 calendar months of the first offense: $100.
      (4)   Fourth and all subsequent offenses within 12 calendar months of the
first offense: $250.
(Ord. 072516, passed 8-8-2016; Ord. 082216, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 103017,
passed 10-30-2017; Ord. 121817A, passed 12-18-2017)
CHAPTER 72: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Operation of golf carts
   
72.03   Designated roadways
   
72.04   Prohibition against operation; time of operation
   
72.05   Public ways; place of operation
   
72.06   Registration of golf carts
   
72.07   Traffic rules
   
72.08   Requirement; possession of proof of insurance
   
72.09   Impounding golf carts; non-compliance
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURRENT DRIVING LICENSE. Pursuant to I.C. 9-13-2-41, every class and kind of
license or permit that evidences the privilege to operate a motor vehicle upon
the highways of Indiana. The term includes a privilege granted by the license.
   GOLF CART. Pursuant to I.C. 9-13-2-69.7, a four-wheeled motor vehicle
originally and specifically designed and intended to transport one or more
individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of golf on a
golf course.
   INDOT. The acronym for Indiana Department of Transportation.
   OEM - ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURER. For the purpose of this chapter shall
have the meaning of a golf cart that has not been modified with aftermarket
equipment or altered from its originally engineered design.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Pursuant to I.C. 9-25-2-3, proof of
ability to respond to damages for liability that arises out of the ownership,
maintenance, or use of a golf cart in the following amounts:
      (1)   Twenty-five thousand dollars because of bodily injury to or death
of any one person;
      (2)   Subject to the limit in division (1), $50,000 because of bodily
injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident; and
      (3)   Ten thousand dollars because of injury to or destruction of
property in any one accident.
   ROADWAY. A road or alleyway included in Ingalls' road inventory and for
which Ingalls has primary responsibility for maintenance and oversight.
(Ord. - -, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 72.02 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   The operation of a golf cart on a public roadway within the corporate limits
of Ingalls, Madison County, Indiana, is strictly prohibited unless the golf
cart is operated in full compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. - -, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 72.03 DESIGNATED ROADWAYS.
   To protect the safety of the residents of Ingalls, Indiana, golf carts shall
only be operated on public streets and alleys within the town's incorporated
limits and may, pursuant to I.C. 9-21-3-3, be allowed to cross a highway in the
state highway system at right angles in order to travel from one public street
or alley within Ingalls, Indiana, to another but only when said operation can
be done safely.
(Ord. - -, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 72.04 PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION; TIME OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts shall only be operated on designated roadways from sunrise to
sunset.
(Ord. - -, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 72.05 PUBLIC WAYS; PLACE OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts shall not be operated, in Ingalls, on any of the following:
   (A)   Sidewalks;
   (B)   Non-designated roadways; and
   (C)   Multi-use pathways.
(Ord. - -, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 72.06 REGISTRATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   At least ten days prior to first operating a golf cart, any owner of a
golf cart desiring to operate the same on the public streets, highways and all
alleyways within the Town of Ingalls, Indiana, must register the golf cart with
the Ingalls Police Department, which is charged with the responsibility for
inspecting and registering golf carts. The Ingalls Police Department shall also
maintain records of the registration for golf carts, which shall include but
not be limited to, the name of the owner(s), address of the owner(s), contact
information for the owner(s), the name of insurance company, insurance policy
number, and insurance agent name and contact information, and other information
deemed necessary by the Ingalls Police Department to maintain a complete
registry of such vehicles.
   (B)   Before registration of a golf cart, the Ingalls Police Department
shall inspect a golf cart to ensure that it is equipped with the following and
it shall be the registrant's continuing obligation to maintain said golf cart
in a good working order and adjustment, so as to ensure that the vehicle is in
a safe mechanical condition that does not endanger the person who drives the
vehicle, another occupant of the vehicle or a person upon the public streets,
highways and alleyways of the Town of Ingalls, Indiana. Said equipment shall
include the following:
      (1)   At least one tail lamp, located in the center of the rear of the
golf cart, that emits a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet
to the rear, located, as measured from the center of the tail lamp, not less
than 20 inches and not more than 72 inches to the level ground upon which the
vehicle stands when the vehicle is without a load;
      (2)   On four-wheeled golf carts, at least two red reflectors carried on
the rear, either as a part of the tail lamps or separately, mounted at a height
measured from the center of the reflector of not less than 20 inches and not
more than 60 inches to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands when the
vehicle is without a load. The reflectors must be of a size and characteristic
and mounted so as to be visible at night from all distances within 100 feet to
600 feet from the vehicle when directly in front of lawful upper beams of head
lamps from approaching vehicles.
      (3)   At least one red reflector carried on the rear of a two-wheeled
vehicle located at the center of said vehicle at a height measured from the
center of the reflector of not less than 20 inches and not more than 60 inches
to the level ground upon which he vehicle stands when the vehicle is without a
load. The reflector must be of a size and characteristic and mounted so as to
be visible at night from all distances within 100 feet to 600 feet from the
vehicle when directly in front of lawful upper beams of head lamps from
approaching vehicles.
      (4)   One safety belt for each passenger, which belt shall meet the
standards stated in the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
(49CFR571.208), which each occupant shall maintain properly fastened about the
occupant's body at all times when the vehicle is in motion;
      (5)   A slow moving vehicle emblem, consisting of a design in compliance
with I.C. 9-21-9-5, which shall be mounted as near as practicable to the center
of mass of the vehicle at an approximate height of not less than three feet and
not more than five feet from the level ground upon which the vehicle stands
when the vehicle is without a load. The emblem shall be mounted, so as to be
entirely visible from the rear, day or night. Such an emblem shall be required
on all golf carts that operate or may not be driven at a speed of greater than
25 miles per hour.
   (C)   Upon registration of the golf cart and the payment of the sum of $10
from the person(s) registering said vehicle, the owner(s) of said vehicle shall
receive a registration sticker which is valid for one calendar year from the
date of registration and that must be displayed at all times during operation
on public streets, highways and alleyways within the Town of Ingalls, Indiana,
in a visible location on the rear of said vehicle. If a registration sticker is
not available at the time or registration, the owner(s) will receive written
proof of registration to be carried during the operation of said vehicle on
public streets, highways and alleyways of the Town of Ingalls, Indiana, until
the registration sticker is issued. Any and all renewals of the golf cart
registration for a vehicle described above shall be renewed at least ten days
prior to its expiration. If said registration renewal and inspection is
conducted within ten days prior to the annual renewal date, the cost of said
renewed registration and inspection shall be $10; however, if said registration
and inspection is allowed to expire, any further registration or inspection of
said vehicle shall be at the charge of $20.
   (D)   The registration of a golf cart may not be transferred to another
person.
   (E)   The Ingalls Police Department shall not register any golf cart that is
not in compliance with this section.
(Ord. - -, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 72.07 TRAFFIC RULES.
   Any golf cart being operated on a designated roadway, in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, shall comply with all traffic rules and regulations
enacted by the State of Indiana and the ordinances of the Town of Ingalls,
Indiana, which govern the operation of motor vehicles.
(Ord. - -, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 72.08 REQUIREMENT; POSSESSION OF PROOF OF INSURANCE.
   Each golf cart operated on designated roadways within Ingalls shall maintain
current insurance as specified in §
72.01 ("proof of financial responsibility"). The proof of insurance must be
carried in or on the golf cart at all times it is being operated on designated
roadways.
(Ord. - -, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 72.09 IMPOUNDING GOLF CARTS; NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, a law enforcement officer
authorized to enforce motor vehicle laws who discovers a golf cart that is in
violation of §§
72.06,
72.07 and/or
72.09 shall take the golf cart into the officer's custody; and may cause the
vehicle to be taken to and stored in a suitable place, at the owner's expense,
until such time as the owner can take possession and transport the golf cart
without violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. - -, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Ingalls Police Department shall issue a uniform ordinance violation
citation to any person or persons violating a provision of this chapter.
Violators of this chapter are subject to the following schedule of fines:
      (1)   Moving violations shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $50 for
each offense, along with court costs in the amount that now exists or may
hereafter be determined by ordinance, statute or the court of jurisdiction.
      (2)   Equipment (non-moving) violations shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $25 for each offense, along with court costs in the amount that now
exists or may hereafter be determined by ordinance, statute or the court of
jurisdiction.
   (B)   All fines prescribed by this chapter for a violation or violations
shall be paid to the Town Ordinance Violations Bureau, which shall render to
the person making payment a receipt stating the amount and purpose for which
the fine has been paid, a duplicate of which shall be made a part of the
records of the town.
   (C)   Should any violation or violations be referred to the Ingalls Town
Attorney for enforcement, the violator shall be responsible for all attorneys'
fees and court costs associated with such enforcement action in addition to any
fine set forth herein.
(Ord. - -, passed 9-14-2020)
CHAPTER 73: HEAVY TRUCK TRAFFIC
Section
   
73.01   Restrictions
§ 73.01 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this schedule, a truck shall be defined as any
vehicle designed or operated for the transportation of property whose body
weight or combined body and load weight exceeds five tons and/or has more than
six wheels.
   (B)   Restrictions.
      (1)   Trucks whose trip originated from outside the town and whose
designation is outside the town shall operate only on state highways and/or
Interstate 69.
      (2)   The restriction in division (B)(1) above shall not prohibit the
operation of:
         (a)   Trucks upon any street where necessary to conduct business at a
destination point provided that said road is used until reaching the
intersection nearest the destination point.
         (b)   Emergency vehicles upon any street in town.
         (c)   Trucks owned or operated by the town, public utilities, or any
contractor or material supplier of the Town of Ingalls while engaged in the
repair, maintenance, or construction of streets, street improvements,
government services, or utilities within the town.
         (d)   Trucks using officially established detours.
      (3)   All vehicles having a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of
26,000 pounds are prohibited from traveling upon East Street its entire length
within the incorporated limits of Ingalls, Indiana and on Reformatory Road from
County Road 650 West to the western corporate boundary. Any violation of this
chapter shall result in a fine being issued to the operator of the vehicle as
set forth in division (D).
   (C)   No person shall stop or park any "truck" as defined herein, or other
vehicles with a gross weight in excess of 10,000 pounds on any portion of any
street and/or alleyway within the Town of Ingalls, Indiana.
   (D)   Any violation of this chapter shall result in a fine being issued to
the operator of the vehicle in the amount of $100 for the first offense, $250
for the second offense within 12 months of the first offense and $500 for the
third or subsequent offense within 12 months of the first offense. In addition,
the violator shall be responsible for any and all attorney fees incurred by the
Town of Ingalls, Indiana associated with the enforcement of this chapter and
collection of any fines or penalties associated therewith.
(Ord. 011121, passed 1-11-2021; Ord. 032221, passed 3-22-2021)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   NOISE CONTROL
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Licensing
   
90.03   Restraint
   
90.04   Animal care and treatment
   
90.05   Rabies control
   
90.06   Impoundment
   
90.07   Adoption rules and procedures
   
90.08   Awarding live animals as prizes
   
90.09   Enticing animals to fight
   
90.10   Wild animals
   
90.11   Keeping domestic farm animals
   
90.12   Vehicular collisions with animals
   
90.13   Enticing animals
 
   
90.99   Enforcement, fines and penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The voluntary relinquishment of possession by the owner with
the intention of his or her ownership, but without vesting possession in any
other person. The failure to make adequate provision of food, water and/or
shelter shall be prima facie evidence of abandonment.
   ADULT DOG AND CAT. Any dog or cat that is three months of age or older for
the purposes of rabies vaccinations/tags.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal which has been spayed or neutered.
   ANIMAL MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR. Any person who has been appointed as such by the
Town Manager.
   ANIMAL MANAGEMENT OFFICER. Any person who has been appointed as such by the
Animal Management Director.
   ANIMAL MANAGEMENT SHELTER. Any facility operated by a humane society or town
agency, or its authorized agents, or operated under contract or agreement with
the Board of Public Works for purpose of impounding or caring for animals held
under the authority of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner while not under the control of the
owner or other person by chain, cord, leash or other device of actual physical
restraint or under the control of the accompanying owner or other person who
has the ability to control the dog or cat by voice command.
   ATTACK. Unprovoked action in an aggressive manner against a human that
includes a bite or causes a scratch, abrasion or bruising, or on a domestic
animal, that causes death or injury that requires veterinary treatment.
   BIRDS OF PREY. Members of the Accipitridae, Aquila, Haliaeetus,
Falconiformes, Accipiter, and Buteo family.
   DANGEROUS.
      (1)   Constitutes a danger to human life or property;
      (2)   Has caused serious injury to a person without having been provoked
by that person; or
      (3)   At a place other than its owner’s property has:
         (a)   Chased or approached a person in a menacing fashion or apparent
attitude of attack; or
         (b)   Attacked another domestic animal; or
      (4)   Because of its training or behavior, is capable of inflicting
physical harm or death to humans;
      (5)   Involved in more than one reported bite incident reported to the
Animal Management Shelter in the last 12 months; or
      (6)   Animals while engaged in law enforcement activities are not
considered dangerous for the purpose of this code.
   DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS.
      (1)   Cattle, including cows, bulls, steers, and calves;
      (2)   Horses, including mares, stallions, geldings, and ponies;
      (3)   Mules;
      (4)   Donkeys or burros;
      (5)   Sheep or lambs;
      (6)   Goats;
      (7)   Rabbits for the purpose of commercial sale for their meat or pelts;
      (8)   Swine, including pigs, hogs, boars, sows, or piglets;
      (9)   Poultry, including but not limited to chickens, turkeys, ducks,
geese, guinea fowl, peafowl, pigeons and pheasants;
      (10)   Exotic animal, being defined as a wild animal that is non-native
to the State of Indiana;
      (11)   Wild animals, being defined as one that lives in the wild or is
not domesticated;
      (12)   Birds of prey, including but not limited to, members of the
Accipitridae, Aquila, Haliaeetus, Falconiformes, Accipiter and Buteo family;
      (13)   Reptiles, including but not limited to, snakes, alligators and
turtles, or any other member of a large group of air-breathing, scaly
vertebrates; and
      (14)   Any other animal kept, owned, maintained, or raised for the
commercial purpose of selling it for the meat, pelts, or other product.
   EXOTIC. Any animal not naturally found in the State of Indiana.
   GUARD DOG. Any dog trained by a recognized training facility for the purpose
of protecting individuals from assault and/or preventing property loss or
damage. The term “recognized training facility” means any person holding a
state kennel license and a business license for either of the purposes
described in this definition.
   GUIDE DOG. A properly trained dog certified as a guide dog by a licensed
training facility that has an expertise in training dogs for the physically
impaired person and that is actually being used by a person to assist that
person.
   HUMANE TRAP. Any device used for capturing an animal without inflicting
injury, pain or suffering and which provides adequate ventilation for the
trapped animal. Snares, leg traps or similar devices are considered inhumane
and shall not be used.
   IDENTIFIED COMPLAINT. A complaint in which the identity of the complaint is
known to the Animal Management Director/Officer and whose identity will not be
made public but held confidential.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an animal management officer or other officer empowered to act by law and
transporting it to the animal management facility.
   INHUMANE. Infliction of injury, pain, or suffering upon an animal or failure
to provide adequate food, water, shelter or ventilation to an animal.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any facility wherein any person engages in the business
of boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling
dogs or cats.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT ANIMAL. An animal that is owned or used by a law enforcement
agency for the purposes of aiding in the detection of criminal activity,
enforcement of laws, the apprehension of offenders and ensuring the public
welfare.
   NUISANCE. Any one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   A condition which arises by a dog, cat or other animal chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles or other moving vehicles on the streets or
sidewalks or any other public area of the town;
      (2)   A condition which arises by a dog, cat or other animal destroying,
defacing or damaging shrubbery, lawns or flowers which results in the general
nuisance of citizens in the neighborhood where such dog, cat or other animals
are harbored;
      (3)   A condition which arises by a dog barking, whining or howling
consistently so as to disturb the peace of the neighborhood;
      (4)   A condition which arises from the accumulation of animal excreta on
the property of the owner, public or any other citizens so as to cause an
obnoxious odor, create a situation which could draw or breed incets, attract
vermin or cause a health nuisance; or
      (5)   Any animal deemed dangerous or vicious that has not been registered
annually.
   OFFICIAL WARNING. A written notice or warning based upon an identified
complaint and given
to the owner of a dog, cat or other animal.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, harbors, keeps, feeds, maintains, has lawful
possession of, or knowingly causes or knowingly permits an animal to be
harbored or kept or has an animal in his/her care or who permits an animal to
remain on or about his/her premises; provided, however this shall not include a
person hired or acting as custodian of the animal for its owner.
   PET SHOP. Any person, partnership, corporation or any other business entity
other than a licensed kennel, that buys or sells any species of animal.
   REPTILE. Any member of a large group of air-breathing scaly vertebrates
including but not limited to snakes, alligators, and turtles.
   RUNNING IN PACK. Three or more dogs, cats or other animals at large
together, which, by repeated or continual presence, constitute a physical
danger to a neighborhood, livestock, personal or real property.
   TETHER. Any chain, rope, cable, and the like, used to restrain or confine an
animal.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that attacks, bites or injures human beings,
pets, companion animals or livestock or which, because of temperament,
conditioning, or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite or injure
human beings, pets, companion animals or livestock as defined in I.C. 35-31.5-
2-29 and 35-31.5-2-292. No dog maybe declared vicious if a threat, injury or
damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful
trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the
dog or was teasing, tormented, abusing or assaulted the dog or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime. The definition shall not be construed to
include dogs that are part of a governmental organization or a trained guard
dog in performance of its duties, or any animal otherwise defined in the
Indiana Code.
   WARM-BLOODED ANIMAL. Any animal that maintains a constant body temperature;
all mammals, including dogs, cats and rabbits.
§ 90.02 LICENSING.
   Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having custody of a dog must
obtain a license as required by Indiana Law, specifically I.C. 6-9-39-1 et seq.
§ 90.03 RESTRAINT.
   (A)   Dog or cat at large. It shall be unlawful for an owner or person
having custody or control of any animal to run at large.
   (B)   To allow such animal to repeatedly run at large, whether wearing a
collar and tag or not, throughout the town constitutes a public nuisance. Any
and all animals found running at large, whether wearing a collar and tag or not
shall be immediately impounded by officers of the animal management or any
police officer. The officers may pursue the animal onto private property to
effect capture of such animal.
   (C)   Enclosure of animal in heat. All owners or persons having custody or
control shall confine within a completely enclosed building or secure enclosure
with no means of escape any dog, cat or other animal when in heat or rutting.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any animal to
exercise reasonable care and take all necessary steps and precautions to
restrain their animal so as to protect other people, property, and animals from
injuries or damage which might result from the animal’s behavior. If the owner
or custodian of any animal is a minor, the parent or guardian of such minor
shall be jointly responsible for the minor’s violation of this chapter.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any animal to
ensure that the animal is kept under restraint and that reasonable care and
precautions are taken to prevent the animal from leaving the real property
limits of its owner, possessor, or custodian, and ensure that the animal is:
      (1)   Securely and humanely enclosed within a house, building, fence, pen
or other enclosure out of which it cannot climb, dig, jump, or otherwise escape
on its own volition; and that such enclosure is securely locked at all times or
anytime the animal is left unattended;
      (2)   Securely and humanely restrained by chain or tether not weighing
more than 1/8 of the pet’s body. The chain or tether shall be at least ten feet
in length and have swivels on both ends, so as to reduce the likelihood of
entanglement. Any chain or tether must be attached to a properly fitting
buckle-type collar or harness worn by the animal, and may not be wrapped around
an animal’s neck; and
      (3)   No pet shall be tethered more than 12 hours in a 24 consecutive
hour period. Dogs under the age of six months shall not be tethered for more
than one hour and shall be under the direct supervision of the owner or person
having custody at all times while being on a tether.
   (F)   Possession of a vicious animal. It is a violation of this chapter for
anyone to own, posses, harbor, maintain or have custody or control over a
vicious animal as defined in this chapter at any location within the town,
other than the animal management facility for observation of animal suspected
of suffering from rabies. If any violation of this chapter occurs, animal
management has the authority to confiscate the animal where ever it may be
found.
   (G)   Possession of dangerous animals. The following precautions shall be
taken by owners, possessors or custodians of dangerous animals:
      (1)   In addition to the requirements in division (D) of this section,
the owner of a dangerous animal who maintains the animal out of doors shall
fence a portion of the property with a second perimeter or area fence. Within
this perimeter or area fence, the dangerous animal must be humanely confined
inside a pen or kennel of adequate size which at a minimum shall be ten feet
long, ten feet wide and six feet high. The pen or kennel may not share common
fencing with the area perimeter fence. The kennel or pen must have secure sides
and a secure top attached to all sides. The sides must either be buried two
feet into the ground, sunken into a concrete pad, or securely attached to a
wire bottom. The gate to the kennel or pen shall be of the inward-opening type
and shall be kept locked at all times except when tending to the animals needs
such as cleaning the kennel or providing food and water.
      (2)   Whenever the animal is outside of its enclosure as provided for in
this division, but on the owner’s property, it must be attended by the owner
and restrained by a secure collar and leash of sufficient strength to prevent
escape. The leash shall be no longer than ten feet, and the animal must be kept
at least 15 feet within the perimeter boundaries of the property unless the
perimeter boundary is securely fenced.
      (3)   No dangerous animal shall be chained, tethered, or otherwise tied
to any inanimate object such as a tree, post, or building, outside of its own
enclosure as provided for in this division.
      (4)   One “beware of dog” sign shall be conspicuously displayed on each
exterior side of the enclosure for each 50 linear feet of enclosure, with a
minimum of two such signs on each side, as well as a sign on each ingress or
egress point of enclosure. The signs shall be a minimum of ten inches high and
14 inches long.
   (H)   The owner or custodian of any guard dog must confine such dog within a
perimeter fence and meet the following conditions: the fence shall be
sufficient to prevent the dog’s escape, with all points of ingress and egress
securely locked at all times.
   (I)   Annoyance or disturbance created by animal. It shall be unlawful for
any person to keep or harbor within the town an animal that creates a nuisance,
or which by loud, frequent or habitual barking, howling or yelping causes
annoyance or disturbance to the area within which the barking, howling or
yelping may be heard.
   (J)   Choke collars and pinch collars are prohibited for the purpose of
tethering an animal to a stationary object.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ANIMAL CARE AND TREATMENT.
   (A)   Provision of care. No owner or person having custody of such animal
shall fail to provide his or her animal with sufficient and wholesome food and
water, protection from the weather and reasonable care, including veterinary
treatment, as may be necessary to prevent suffering. This division (A) shall
also apply to animals kept at an animal shelter operated by animal management
or by anyone in the town.
   (B)   Classification of a non-commercial kennel. The existence of more than
four dogs and/or cats at a residence shall constitute a noncommercial kennel
requiring the owner or person possessing the animals to obtain a non-commercial
kennel license from the animal management director. It shall be unlawful for
any person to keep or maintain a commercial kennel at a residence or a
residential area. Commercial kennels as defined are permitted in general
business, plan business and industrial zoned areas per the Zoning Code of the
town. The user fee for a commercial and non-commercial kennel is hereby
established in the amount of $100. Both commercial and non-commercial kennels
must comply with Federal Register 9 (C.F.R. Part 2) February 15, 1991, Animal
Welfare.
   (C)   Ill treatment. No person shall beat, cruelly ill treat, torment,
overload, overwork or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate or permit
a dogfight, cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals and humans.
   (D)   Abandonment. It shall be unlawful for any owner or person having
custody of any dog, cat or other animal to abandon the same within the town.
   (E)   Public disposal of poison liable to be possibly consumed by animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any poisonous substance
in any area of the roads, parks, common
yards or other places, whether public or private, within the town so that the
same may possibly be consumed by any animal.
   (F)   Removal of dead animal.
      (1)   Any person who shall become apprised of the death of any dog, cat
or other animal owned by him or her under their control shall, immediately
thereafter cause the dog, cat or animal to either be properly interred or shall
call animal management to remove the animal from the town. There will be no
charge to residents of the county who bring their dog or cat to the animal
management facility for disposal. Any resident from outside of the county who
brings a deceased dog or cat to animal management shall be charge a fee of $20
for disposal.
      (2)   Veterinarians who have offices in the county may deliver dogs or
cats to animal management for disposal shall be charged $5 for each dog and $3
for each cat; provided however, that if the veterinarians request that animal
management pick up the animals at the office of the veterinarian, the disposal
charge shall be $25 per dog and $15 per cat.
   (G)   Domestic animals in vehicles.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to leave a domestic animal unattended in a
vehicle when the conditions in that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to
the animal.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any dog, cat or other animal to ride in
the bed of a pickup truck on public streets, highways, and/or right-of-ways
unless the animal is securely caged and protected from the environment or
unless the bed of the pickup truck is enclosed with a camper shell or other
device and there is appropriate and sufficient ventilation for the animal.
   (H)   Disposal of and shooting an animal.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to terminate the life of any dog, cat or other
animal in a inhumane way within the town limits.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to intentionally shoot any dog, cat or other
animal unless the person feels in fear of their own life or someone else’s
life.
   (I)   Inhumane traps. It shall be unlawful to use any inhumane trap within
the town limits.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RABIES CONTROL.
   All actions taken in connection with any animals suspected of suffering from
rabies shall be in accordance with I.C. 15-2.1-6-11 and all acts amendatory or
supplemental thereto as well as Indiana Administrative Code §§ 410 et seq. and
all acts amendatory or supplemental thereto.
§ 90.06 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Establish of pound or shelter. The town shall arrange for use of an
animal management shelter, as provided in Indiana law, which shall be located
within the town.
   (B)   Cause for impoundment. It shall be the duty of the animal management
director or designee to apprehend and impound in such animal shelter any dog,
cat or any other animal found doing any of the following acts or being kept or
maintained in any of the following conditions, unless provided herein.
      (1)   Running at large, not conforming to §
90.03(B).
      (2)   Not confined, as provided in §
90.03(C), (D), (E).
      (3)   Kept in violation of §
90.03(F).
      (4)   Abandoned, as provided in §
90.04(D).
      (5)   Entering private property causing injury to person or property in
violation of §
90.03(E).
      (6)   Not registered, licensed or tagged as provided in this chapter and
Indiana law.
      (7)   Upon an identified complaint made to animal management office of a
violation of this chapter.
      (8)   Upon order of the court following a conviction of any person for
violation any provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Official warning in lieu of impoundment. The provisions of the above
notwithstanding, in lieu of impounding any animal under division (b) above, the
animal management director or designee may issue an official warning to the
owner or person having custody of such dog, cat or other animal.
   (D)   Notification of impoundment. Not later than 24 hours after the
impoundment of any dog, cat or other animal, except if such impoundment is by
reason of §
90.05, the animal management director or designee, shall notify the owner or
person having custody of such animal, if known, by first class United States
mail or by telephone, of such impoundment and the reason thereof. In the event
that the owner is unknown, no notification will be deemed necessary.
   (E)   Notification and redemption of impounded animal. Whether an impounded
dog, cat or other animal may be redeemed, shall be within the sole discretion
of the animal management director; however, any dog, cat or other animal that
has been impounded on three or more occasions may not be redeemed or reclaimed.
   (F)   Fees for redemption of impounded animal. An owner or person having
custody of an impounded dog, cat or other animal who has been notified that
such dog, cat or other animal may be reclaimed or redeemed, may reclaim or
redeem the same upon payment of the following fees and upon fulfillment of the
following obligations:
      (1)   If the dog, cat or other animal has been picked up or captured by a
town employee or other authorized agent of the town, the owner or person having
custody of such animal shall pay a redemption fee as provided for by a schedule
established by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (2)   Before the dog or cat shall be released, the owner or person having
custody of such animal shall have the dog or cat inoculated against rabies, and
certify the same to the animal management director or his/her designee.
      (3)   All dogs, cats or other animals reclaimed must be micro-chipped at
the owner’s expense before it will be released back to the owner or person
having custody.
   (G)   Failure to reclaim or redeem impounded animal. It shall be unlawful
for an owner or person having custody of an impounded dog or cat or other
animal, who has been notified that such dog, cat or other animal may be
reclaimed or redeemed, to fail to reclaim the same on or before the last day of
impoundment before the disposition of such dog, cat or other animal under §
90.06(H).
   (H)   Impounded animal not registered, licensed, tagged or redeemed.
      (1)   All dogs, cats or other animals impounded under this chapter and
not registered, licensed, tagged, and redeemed shall be disposed of in a humane
manner or placed for adoption after the expiration of the following time
periods:
         (a)   Three days after notice is given to the owner or person having
custody of such animal as required under division (D) of this section;
         (b)   Five days after impoundment when the owner or person having
custody of such animal is unknown;
         (c)   After the animal has been impounded for a third time within a
12-month period; or
         (d)   At the time fixed by the court under division (B) of this
section.
      (2)   Provided, however, that the dog, cat or other animal which appears
to be suffering from mange or other infectious or contagious disease, except
rabies, may be disposed of immediately upon impoundment, as authorized by the
animal management director.
   (I)   Extermination of vicious or dangerous animals. Whenever the animal
management department shall find any dog, cat or other animal running in packs,
vicious, or in such condition as to be too dangerous to capture, or too
dangerous to maintain at the animal management facility, then the animal
management director is authorized to give authorization to an animal management
officer to dispose of the animal where it may be found or upon return to the
animal management facility.
   (J)   Prohibition of experimentation on impounded animals. No impounded
animals shall be sold or given to any person, procurer or agent for the purpose
of experimentation.
§ 90.07 ADOPTION RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Adoption restrictions are as follows:
      (1)   Animals to be adopted must meet state requirements for vaccination
and taxation;
      (2)   Animals that have not been neutered or spayed will not be adopted
until arrangements for neutering or spaying have been made;
      (3)   Person adopting gives assurance that the animal will be kept on his
or her property and not be allowed to run at large;
      (4)   No animal will be adopted to a person convicted of cruelty to an
animal or known to be a repeat offender of allowing an animal to run at large;
      (5)   No adoption by a minor will be allowed;
      (6)   Any person living in an apartment, mobile home or rental property
must get consent from the owner before adoption;
      (7)   If at any time the new owner becomes unable to care for the animal,
a new responsible owner must be found or the animal returned to the animal
management facility;
      (8)   Pregnant females are not available for adoption;
      (9)   Nursing females are not available for adoption unless pups are at
weaning age;
      (10)   Injured or sick animals are not available for adoption;
      (11)   The person adopting acknowledges animal management personnel are
not veterinarians and therefore cannot guarantee the health of adopted animals;
      (12)   All fees are non-refundable;
      (13)   Any animal that is known to have bitten an individual will not be
available for adoption; and
      (14)   Animal management personnel and the town are not responsible for
the actions of animals adopted out of animal management.
   (B)   If the application is accepted, placement can take place as soon as
fees and other required certification is completed. Animal management reserves
the right of refusal on any adoption. Applicant has the right of appeal to the
animal management director within 24 hours of refusal.
   (C)   (1)   Fees for adoption and other fees shall be initially as set forth
below or as subsequently established by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
         (a)   Cats and kittens: females $55, males $45;
         (b)   Puppies zero to six months, no matter what size or weight:
females $65, males $55;
         (c)   Older female dogs: up to 30 pounds $65, 30 to 45 pounds $70, 45
to 60 pounds $80; 60 pounds and over $90; and
         (d)   Older male dogs: up to 45 pounds $65; 45 pounds and over $75.
      (2)   There shall be an additional adoption fee $25 per animal paid to
animal management which covers each pet being vaccinated, tested and micro-
chipped.
   (D)   Fees set forth in division (C)(1)(a), (b), (c) and (d) above shall be
paid to any participating veterinarian of the applicant’s choice to cover the
cost of the spay/neuter and rabies vaccination. Fees set forth in division (D)
(2) above shall be paid directly to animal management. Fees set forth in
division (C) above can be changed upon approval of the Board of Public Works
and Safety. The animal will be released when proof of payment from a
participating veterinarian has been provided. When possible, animals will be
held at the animal management facility until the appointment date for the pet
to be spayed/neutered.
§ 90.08 AWARDING LIVE ANIMALS AS PRIZES.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to sell, offer for sale, trade, barter, or
give away within the town limits any animal as a novelty, prize, or as an
incentive to enter a place of, amusement, or offer such vertebrate as an
incentive to enter any business establishment or enter into any business
agreement whereas the offer was made for the purpose of attracting trade for
the establishment, other than establishments selling animals as their primary
business.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ENTICING ANIMALS TO FIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to incite, train to fight (other than a
crime prevention animal), or set any animal to fighting another animal, or to
incite combat between animals and humans within the town limits. It also shall
be unlawful to attend or be a spectator at an organized or unorganized animal
fight.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, have custody,
keep, or make provisions for keeping a wild animal within the town limits,
regardless of whether such animal is caged, penned, sheltered or housed unless
such resident of the town has received a permit for possession of wild animals
from the Department of Natural Resources of the State of Indiana or any other
regulatory authority.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or have custody of or
within any property located within the town limits any poisonous or potentially
dangerous snake, reptile, or insect or any other type of animal or marine life
which has the propensity of causing serious harm to human beings.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed so as to apply to a zoological
garden, theatrical exhibit, or a circus act, except that no theatrical exhibit
or act shall be held in which animals are encouraged to perform through the use
of chemical, electrical, or mechanical devices.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 KEEPING DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or have custody of on his
or her property within the town limits any bovine, porcine, equine, gallus
gallus, or other domestic farm animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 VEHICULAR COLLISIONS WITH ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person whose vehicle causes injury or death to an animal within the
town limits shall stop at once and assess the extent of the injury as soon as
it is safe to do so.
   (B)   The vehicle operator shall immediately notify the owner of the animal
if known, or animal management either directly or through a local law
enforcement agency. The notification shall include but not be limited to, a
description of the animal, location of the incident, and an estimate as to the
condition of the animal. If any tag information can be obtained in a safe
manner, this information shall also be given at the time of notification.
§ 90.13 ENTICING ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an unauthorized person to enter or invade
another person’s private property within the town limits to capture, and ties
or take any animal out of an enclosure or off the property of the owner, or to
seize an animal at any place while the animal is being accompanied by the owner
or person having custody.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an unauthorized person to entice any animal
away from the property of the person who owns or has custody of the animal
within the town limits. It also shall be unlawful to entice an animal from a
street, alley, or public place within the town limits with the intent to
deprive the owner or person having custody the animal’s possession.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 ENFORCEMENT, FINES AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Enforcement of chapter. The animal management director and authorized
members of this department will have the full and unrestricted authority to
enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Interference with official. It shall be a violation of this chapter to
interfere with the animal management director or any deputy animal management
officer in the performance of their duties, which shall be punishable in
accordance with §
90.99(G).
   (C)   Record of impound animals. The animal management director shall keep a
record of all dogs, cats or other animals impounded in the animal management
facility which record shall show date of impoundment, the reason thereof, name
of the person bringing the animal to the animal management facility and the
kind, sex, color, breed and any identifying collars, tags, tattoos or marks of
the animal impounded.
   (D)   Official warning and notice of code violation. Upon information
sufficient to establish a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the
animal management director or authorized deputy may issue to the person
committing such violation, or to the owner or person having custody or control
of any animal involved in such violation, either:
      (1)   An official warning stating the name of the person to whom the
warning is being issued, the nature of the violation, the date of the violation
and any other pertinent information concerning the violation. Such official
warning shall also state that it is only an warning and is neither a notice of
code violation nor a notice to appear to answer to any such violation; or
      (2)   A notice of code violation stating the name of the person to whom
the notice is being issued, the nature of the violation, the fine imposed for
such violation in accordance with division (E) of this section, the specific
section of this chapter which has been violated, and any other information
which is pertinent to the violation and necessary for a thorough understanding
of the circumstances surrounding such violation. The violation notice shall
instruct the person to whom the violation is being issued that he or she shall
appear at the County Superior Court II to answer to the violation.
   (E)   Fines.
      (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter within five
days of the date of the notice of the chapter violation, such violator shall
pay a fine as follows:
Violation Fine
Violation Fine
90.03(A)  $50
90.03(B)  $100
90.03(C)  $200
90.03(D)  $50
90.03(E)  $50
90.03(F)  $200
90.03(G)  $200
90.03(H)  $50
90.03(I)  $50
90.03(J)  $50
90.04(A)  $100
90.04(B)  $50
90.04(C)  $200
90.04(D)  $100
90.04(E)  $50
90.04(F)  $50
90.04(G)  $50
90.04(H)  $200
90.04(I)  $200
90.05     $50
90.06(G)  $50
90.08     $50
90.09     $200
90.10     $100
90.11     $100
90.12     $50
90.13     $50
 
      (2)   The fines will be collected by the Town Clerk-Treasurer and
transferred to the General Fund.
   (F)   Failure to pay fines. If a violator fails to pay fines or appear at
the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office within five days of the date of notice of code
violation, such violation may be filed with County Superior Court II, and such
violator may be summoned to appear before such court.
   (G)   Penalties. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, other
than the licensing provision of §
90.02 or the sections listed in division (E) of this section upon conviction or
a plea of guilty in County Superior Court II shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $200 and not more than $500. Each day a violation occurs shall be
deemed a separate violation, unless otherwise provided by Indiana law.
   (H)   Restitution. In addition to the fines set forth herein, any person who
violates the provisions of §
90.03(D) shall make full restitution for any damages or injury to persons or
property as a result of such violation, including, but not limited to, medical
expenses, the value of any real or personal property which has been destroyed
or the cost of repairing any damage to real or personal property.
   (I)   Additional fees and cost. In addition to any fine or penalty set forth
above, if a violation must be prosecuted through the Superior Court the
violator, upon conviction shall pay reasonable attorney fees and court cost as
determined by the court.
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Policy statement
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practice
   
91.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
91.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
91.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
91.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
91.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
91.09   Exemptions
   
91.10   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 91.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq.,
as amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 3-23-1998)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice
that is about to occur; or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Right Commission, created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   COMPLAINT. A written grievance filed with the town, either by a complainant
or another party, which meets all the requirements of §
91.10(B) and (C).
   COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if the buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground-floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   DISABILITY. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one of
more of such person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment;
      (3)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.;
      (4)   Any other impairment;
      (5)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance, as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802, or
psychoactive substance use disorders resulting from current illegal use of
drugs;
      (6)   An individual shall not be considered DISABLED solely on the basis
of the following:
         (a)   Homosexuality;
         (b)   Bisexuality;
         (c)   Transvestitism transsexualism, pedophilia, exhibitionism,
voyeurism, gender identity disorders not resulting from physical impairments,
or other sexual behavior disorders; or
         (d)   Compulsive gambling, kleptomania or pyromania.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
91.04, 91.05, 91.06, 91.07 or 91.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING.
      (1)   Building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or
      (2)   Vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction
or location of a building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or
more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with:
      (1)   A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual
or the written permission of such parent or other person; or
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in “familial status” herein.
   OWNER. The person holding legal or equitable title to property, or his or
her legal representative.
   OWNER OCCUPIED. Any individual who:
      (1)   Is a titleholder of record or contract purchaser of the real
property in question; and
      (2)   Continued to occupy and reside in the property as his or her
principal dwelling place at the time the alleged discriminatory act occurs.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 3-23-1998)
§ 91.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
91.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
91.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
91.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time, provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who
was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale; the exemption
shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The private
individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his
or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from
the sale or rental of three or more such single-family houses at any one time.
The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
91.04(C); but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing
sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving
the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 3-23-1998)
§ 91.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
91.03, and except as exempted by §
91.03(B) and §
91.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex familial
status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact bo
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons or a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin;
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (F), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled, person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwelling in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
            2.   All doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements Americans With
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. and of the American
National Standard for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically disabled people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (F)(3)(c)3. above.
      (5)   Nothing in the division (F) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 3-23-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the phrase RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANS- ACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 3-23-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 3-23-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
91.03,
91.04,
91.05 or
91.06.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 3-23-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person, because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, renting, financing, or occupation or any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $2,500.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 3-23-1998)
§ 91.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
membership in such religion restricted on account of race, color or national
origin; nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which has an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older person.
      (2)   As used in this section, the phrase HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means
housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
      (3)   Housing that includes units that are unoccupied or that are
occupied by persons who do not meet the age requirement of divisions (C)(2)(b)
or (C)(2)(c) above does not fail to meet the requirements for housing older
persons if:
         (a)   The unoccupied units are reserved for persons who meet the age
requirements of divisions (C)(2)(b) or (C)(2)(c) above; or
         (b)   The occupants who do not meet the age requirements of divisions
(C)(2)(b) or (C)(2)(c) above have resided in the housing since September 13,
1988 or an earlier date, and the persons who become occupants after September
13, 1988 meet the age requirements of divisions (C)(2)(b) or (C)(2)(c) above.
      (4)   The town shall adopt rules under I.C. 4-22-2 to establish criteria
for matching determinations under division (C)(2) above; these rules must
include at least the following provisions.
         (a)   Except as provided in the following division (C)(4)(b) below,
the housing must provide significant faculties and services specifically
designed to meet the physical or social needs of older persons.
         (b)   If the provision of the facilities and services described in
division (C)(4)(a) above is not practicable, the housing must be necessary to
provide important housing opportunities for older persons.
         (c)   At least 80% of the units must be occupied by at least one
person who is at least 55 years of age.
         (d)   The owner or manager of the housing must publish and adhere to
provide housing for persons who are at least 55 years of age.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 3-23-1998)
§ 91.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below shall be vested in the chief executive officer and/or Town
Manager.
   (B)   A complaint concerning an alleged discriminatory housing practice must
be:
      (1)   In writing;
      (2)   Under oath; and
      (3)   Addressed to the chief executive officer and/or Town Manager;
   (C)   An aggrieved person may, not later than one year after an alleged
discriminatory housing practice has occurred or terminated, whichever is later,
file a complaint with the Commission (as delineated in division (D) below)
alleging the discriminatory housing practice.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission (“Commission”) for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6; the chief elected
officer of the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as
provided for under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-
9.5-6.
   (E)   Not later than one year after an alleged discriminatory housing
practice has occurred or terminated, whichever is later, the Commission may
file the Commission’s own complaint.
   (F)   A complaint under this section may be amended at any time.
   (G)   When a complaint if filed under this section, the town shall do the
following:
      (1)   Give the aggrieved person notice that the complaint have been
received;
      (2)   Advise the aggrieved person of the time limit and choice of forums
under this section;
      (3)   The chief executive officer of the town, or the chief executive
officer’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information;
      (4)   Not later than 20 days after filing of the complaint or the
identification of an additional respondent under this section, serve on each
respondent:
         (a)   A notice identifying the alleged discriminatory practice and
advising the respondent of the procedural rights and obligations of a
respondent under this section; and
         (b)   A copy of the original complaint.
   (H)   All executive departments and agencies of the town, shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter,
and shall cooperate with the chief executive officer and the Commission to
further such purposes.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 3-23-1998)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Definitions; Board and Department provisions
   
92.02   Park rules
   
92.03   Park service extension
   
92.04   Park hours
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS; BOARD AND DEPARTMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEPARTMENT. The Town Department of Parks and Recreation.
      DISTRICT. The district within the jurisdiction of the Department.
      PARK BOARD. The Town Board of Parks and Recreation.
   (B)   The Department and Park Board are hereby established under a
Superintendent, and other personnel as the Board may determine.
   (C)   The Board shall be composed of four members, with the Library Board
appointing a member ex-officio.
   (D)   The Board shall have the general power to perform all acts necessary
to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition to all
other powers necessary to achieve the general objectives of the Board, the
Board shall have, for park and recreation purposes, all the powers and duties
listed in I.C. 36-10-3-1.
   (E)   The Board may create an advisory council and special committees
composed of citizens interested in the problem or parks and recreation.
(1983 Code, § 36-10-3-1) (Ord. 75-6, passed 6-16-1975; Ord. 75-8, passed 5-1-
1982)
Statutory reference:
   Park and recreation law, see I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq.
§ 92.02 PARK RULES.
   (A)   No alcoholic beverages shall be possessed inside the park premises.
   (B)   No motor vehicles, motorcycles or any off-road vehicles such as dirt
bikes, dune buggies or snowmobiles shall be allowed in the playground area.
   (C)   No vehicle shall exceed the speed limit of ten mph in the park area.
   (D)   All trash shall be placed in the proper containers.
   (E)   (1)   All animals in the park premises shall be under restraint and
supervision.
      (2)   No person shall allow his or her animal to roam at large on the
park premises.
   (F)   No organizations or person using the park for public or private use
shall leave litter, trash or garbage on park grounds.
   (G)   No person shall remain in the park after 11:00 p.m. or immediately
following any recreational game lasting beyond 11:00 p.m., unless authorized by
the Park Board.
   (H)   Any assemblies shall be approved by the Park Board.
(1983 Code, § 36-10-3-10) (Ord. 80-3, passed 5-3-1980) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Powers, of Board, see I.C. 36-10-3-10 (2)
§ 92.03 PARK SERVICE EXTENSION.
   The Park District shall include the town and all unincorporated areas of the
township.
(1983 Code, § 36-10-3-36) (Ord. 75-8, passed 9-15-1975)
Statutory reference:
   Addition on unincorporated areas to park district, see I.C. 36-10-3-36
§ 92.04 PARK HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be within the confines or on the
grounds of any park owned, managed, or operated by the town between dusk and
dawn.
(Ord. 040918A, passed 4-9-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99 
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
92.02(A) shall be fined $35.
(1983 Code, § 36-10-3-10)
   (C)   Any person violating §
92.02(B) through (H)’s rules and regulations shall be fined up to $25.
(1983 Code, § 36-10-3-10)
   (D)   Anyone violating the provisions of §
92.04 shall be fined $25 for the first violation within any calendar year, $50
for any subsequent violation within 12 months of the first violation, and $100
for any third or subsequent violation with 12 months of the first violation.
(Ord. 80-3, passed 5-3-1980; Ord. 040918A, passed 4-9-2018)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
General Nuisances
   
93.01   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
93.02   Certain conditions declared nuisances
   
93.03   Test for nuisance
   
93.04   Nuisance created by others
   
93.05   Inspection of premises
   
93.06   Abatement of nuisances
   
93.07   Weeds
Junked or Abandoned Vehicles
   
93.20   Vehicles declared nuisances; exception
   
93.21   Definition
   
93.22   Storing, allowing to remain on property prohibited
   
93.23   Removal from private property
   
93.24   Removal from public property
   
93.25   Exemption
   
93.26   Disposal
   
93.27   Abandonment or storage of certain furniture and appliances
Burning Restrictions
   
93.40   General provisions
   
93.41   Cite for violation
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 90
   Noise Control, see
Chapter 94
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 95
GENERAL NUISANCES
§ 93.01 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter and code to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statues of
the state as public nuisances may, in case any thereof exist within the town
limits, be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided in this
chapter and code, or in accordance with any other provisions of law. Wherever
the word NUISANCE is used in this chapter, it refers to a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014)
§ 93.02 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   The following conditions within the town constitute and are declared to be
nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees in public ways. Any tree, stack or other object
standing on such premises in such condition that it shall, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger life, limb or property, or cause hurt, damage or
injury to persons or property on the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage or other waster material which endangers the public
health, welfare or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment
by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger of its
catching or communication fire, its attracting and propagating vermin, rodents
or insects, or blowing into any street, sidewalk or property of another. It
shall be the duty of persons owning or being in charge of those business
establishments whose patrons purchase goods or services from their automobiles,
commonly known as “drive-ins”, to furnish sufficient covered receptacles for
the deposit of wastes created in the operation of such business, and to clean
up such wastes as are not deposited in receptacles at the close of business of
each day (or if such business operates continuously, at least once each day),
and at such other times when weather conditions are such that waste from the
operation of such business is being blown to adjoining premises;
   (C)   Noxious odors or smoke. Emissions from premises into the surrounding
atmosphere of such odors, dusts, smoke or other matter as to render ordinary
use or physical occupation of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or
impossible;
   (D)   Noise. Noise noxious enough to destroy the enjoyment of dwelling
houses or other uses of property in the vicinity by interfering with the
ordinary comforts of human existence;
   (E)   Storage of explosives or combustible material. Storage on the premises
of such combustible or explosive material as to create a safety hazard to other
property or persons in the vicinity;
   (F)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open or uncovered, or insecurely
covered, cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated on private
premises in any open or unfence lot or place; and
   (G)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets and sidewalks. 
      (1)   The growing and maintenance of trees with less than 14 feet
clearance over streets or less than eight feet over sidewalks, or the growing
and maintenance of shrubbery in excess of three feet in height within a radius
of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any street intersects the curb
line of another street.
      (2)   No shrub shall be planted between the curb line and the property
line of any street within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb
line of any street intersects with the curb line of another street.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 TEST FOR NUISANCE.
   Whether or not a particular annoyance of the character listed in §
93.02 constitutes a nuisance shall depend on its effect on persons of ordinary
health and average sensibilities, and not on its effect on persons who are
delicate or supersensitive, or whose habit, tastes or conditions are such that
they are never sensible of any annoyance.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014)
§ 93.04 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the nuisance
be created or contributed to by the owner, or tenants, or their agents or
representatives, but merely that the nuisance be enacted or contributed to by
licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose conduct the owner or
operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct the owner or operator
is not responsible, but, by the exercise of reasonable care, the owner or
operator ought to have become aware of.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014)
§ 93.05 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying the provisions of this chapter into
effect, it is made the duty of all officers and employees of the town to report
the existence of nuisances to the Town Marshal and/or the Building Commissioner
and/or the Street Commissioner and/or the Fire Chief (hereinafter the
“Enforcing Authority”).
   (B)   The Enforcing Authority, or other employees designated by the Town
Council shall be permitted to visit or enter into or on any building, lot,
grounds or premises within the limits of this town to ascertain and discover
any such nuisances.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   In any case where any nuisance may be found to exist, it shall be the
duty of the Enforcing Authority to serve notice on the owner or occupant of the
premises where such nuisance exists, or on any other person so causing such
nuisance, to abate such nuisance within reasonable time. In determining such
reasonable time, the Enforcing Authority shall take into consideration the
degree of threat to the public health, safety and welfare and the means
required to abate such nuisance. It shall not be necessary for the Enforcing
Authority to designate in this notice the manner in which any nuisance shall be
abated unless the Enforcing Authority shall deem it advisable to do so;
however, the Enforcing Authority shall indicate in such notice the date within
which the nuisance must be abated.
   (B)   If the owner, occupant or other person served with a notice to abate
the nuisance shall refuse or neglect to abate the nuisance within the
designated time after such notice is given, such person shall be subject to the
penalties provided in §
93.99. In addition, the Enforcing Authority may cause such nuisance to be
abated in any manner authorized by law, including the institution in the name
of this town of an action therefor against the owner, occupant or other person
for the recovery of the amount of expense of such abatement.
   (C)   The Enforcing Authority shall notify the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
of the cost of abating any nuisance. The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the
owner, occupant or other person against whom the abatement proceedings were
brought as to the cost of abatement; and if said cost is not paid by the owner
within 30 days, the proper officers of the town shall proceed to collect the
same either by causing said costs to be placed on the tax duplicate or by suit.
   (D)   The requirement for service of notice under the provisions of
divisions (A) and (C) above may be complied with by mailing such notice by
registered or certified mail to the last known address of the person sough to
be notified, or by personal service of this notice by any police officer so
directed.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 WEEDS.
   (A)   (1)   All owners of real estate located within the town limits shall
cut and remove rank weeds and other rank vegetation growing thereon to a height
of eight inches or more. All parcels/land located within a floodplain,
wetlands, woods, or undeveloped areas may be exempted from the above
requirements as determined by the Town Manager upon request of a landowner. In
determining whether a parcel of land is exempt from the provisions of this
section, the Town Manager shall consider the following:
         (a)   The impact of the exemption upon surrounding property owners in
their use of their real estate;
         (b)   The ecological impact of the exemption, including the potential
impact upon wildlife habitat, water quality, air quality, flood control, and
erosion control;
         (c)   The contributory effect of the exemption upon the creation or
preservation of green space and natural undeveloped land; and
         (d)   The general health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
town.
      (2)   Trees, shrubberies, flowers, ornamental grasses, and agricultural
crops, including hay and pasture, exceeding eight inches, are not to be
considered weeds or rank vegetation that may be considered a nuisance under §
93.02(G) of this chapter.
   (B)   The Enforcing Authority is directed and authorized to issue a five-day
written notice to the owner to remove such rank weeds or other rank vegetation.
Such notice may be served either personally on the owner or sent by certified
mail return receipt requested, addressed to his or her last known address, if
he or she is nonresident of the town.
   (C)   If the landowner fails to remove such rank vegetation within the time
prescribed, the Enforcing Authority may cause such rank weeds and vegetation to
be cut and removed. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified statement of the
actual cost incurred by the town in such removal, which statement shall be
delivered to the owner of the real estate by a member of the Town Police
Department, or by certified mail with a return receipt. The owner shall, within
ten days from receipt of such notice, pay the amount to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   If the owner fails to pay said sum within the time prescribed, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall file a certified copy of the statement of costs in the
Auditor’s office of the county, and the Auditor shall place the amount so
claimed on the tax duplicate against the lands of the landowner affected by the
lien, and the same shall be collected as taxes disbursed to the General Fund of
the town.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014; Ord. 042318, passed 5-14-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
JUNKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 93.20 VEHICLES DECLARED NUISANCES; EXCEPTION.
   Because of the detriment to the general and economic welfare of the public,
danger to health from vermin, insects and rodents, and because of the danger to
the safety of children who are attracted to them, disassembled, inoperable or
any junked, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicles are declared to be nuisances,
except in lawfully operated junkyards of automotive sales or repair businesses.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is or was equipped with a motor, and shall
also mean any part of a motor vehicle which is detached from the main portion
of any vehicle.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014)
§ 93.22 STORING, ALLOWING TO REMAIN ON PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or allow to remain in the open
on any public or private property within the corporate limits of the town any
disassembled or inoperable and unlicensed, or any junked, wrecked, or abandoned
motor vehicle for a period of three or more days on public property, or for a
period of 15 or more days on private property, unless it is in connection with
a duly licensed junkyard or an automotive sales or repair business which is
located in a properly zoned area.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Whenever the Town Marshal shall find any such vehicle places or stored in
the open on private property within the corporate limits of the town, he or she
shall issue an order to the owner of such vehicle to remove such vehicle within
ten days. Notice of such order shall be placed on the vehicle, and copies of
the notice shall be served on any adult occupying real estate on which the
vehicle is located, and also on the owner of the vehicle, if his or her name
and whereabouts be known. If no occupant of the real estate or owner of the
vehicle can be found, a notice affixed to any building on the real estate shall
constitute notice to the owner and occupant of the real estate and owner of the
vehicle. If there is no building on the real estate, the notice may be affixed
elsewhere on the real estate. If the vehicle is not removed within ten days
pursuant to the order and notice, and if the order is not stayed by the issuing
officer pursuant to the order and notice, and if the order is not stayed by the
issuing officer pursuant to a written request showing good cause for a
permanent or temporary stay, the Town Marshal shall cause the vehicle to be
removed by a junk or salvage yard or wrecker service, the cost and expense of
the removal by the junk or salvage yard to be paid by the owner of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014)
§ 93.24 REMOVAL FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Whenever the Town Marshal shall find any such vehicle places or stored in
the open on public property within the corporate limits of the town, he or she
shall issue an order to the owner of the vehicle to remove the vehicle within
two days. Notice of such order shall be placed on the vehicle. If the vehicle
is not removed within three days pursuant to the order and notice, the Town
Marshal shall cause the vehicle to be removed by a junk or salvage yard or
wrecker service, the cost and expense of the removal by the junk or salvage
yard or wrecker service to be paid by the owner of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014)
§ 93.25 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of §§
93.20 through
93.24 shall not apply to auto salvage yards or junkyards that are duly operated
and licensed by the state or the town, and are operated and located in a
properly zoned area.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014)
§ 93.26 DISPOSAL.
   Motor vehicles, or any parts thereof, which have been impounded pursuant to
§§
93.20 through
93.24 shall be disposed of according to law.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014)
§ 93.27 ABANDONMENT OR STORAGE OF CERTAIN FURNITURE AND APPLIANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, place or allow to remain in
the open, on any public or private property, any household furniture, any
discarded, abandoned, unused or any other refrigerator, freezer, ice box,
washing machines, dryers or other appliances.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
BURNING RESTRICTIONS
§ 93.40 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No trash or leaves shall be burned unless an adult is attending to the
fire.
   (B)   No trash or leaves shall be burned from 4:00 p.m. through 6:00 a.m.,
October 1 through May 31, and from 6:00 p.m. through 6:00 a.m., June 1 through
September 30.
   (C)   The Town Fire Department may extinguish any fires burning from 4:00
p.m. through 6:00 a.m., October 1 through May 31 and from 6:00 p.m. through 6:
00 a.m., June 1 through September 30.
   (D)   The owner of property where any improper burning occurs shall pay a
fee set by the Fire Department for putting out a trash or leaf fire.
   (E)   The Town Fire Department may extinguish any fire that poses a danger
to any neighboring property due to wind or other unfavorable conditions.
(1983 Code, § 13-1-1-10) (Ord. 80-5, passed 1-3-1981; Ord. passed 11-7-1981)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Local burning restrictions, see 13-1-1-10
§ 93.41 CITE FOR VIOLATION.
   Any officer of the Town Fire Department or Police Department has the
authority to cite the property owner for violation of §
93.40.
(1983 Code, § 13-1-1-10) (Ord. 80-5, passed 1-3-1981; Ord. passed 11-7-1981)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Whoever creates or maintains any nuisance defined in this
chapter, or elsewhere in this code, or by any other law, or ordinance of the
town, and who fails or refuses to abate such nuisance when so ordered, shall be
fined not more than $200.
      (2)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which the violation occurs or continues beyond the date fixed by the
Enforcing Authority for abatement of said nuisance.
      (3)   The action against any person to enforce a penalty by the town
shall constitute a separate and additional legal remedy, and the fact that any
proceedings by way of an injunction, or for the abatement of any such nuisance,
has been or may be instituted by the town and be pending or concluded, shall
not affect this section or chapter or be considered in any way as a defense to
such action for the penalty herein prescribed.
      (4)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions
of §§
93.20 through
93.27, or who interferes in any way whatsoever with the due process of
enforcement of any of the provisions of those sections, or who does not obey
within the time fixed any order issued pursuant thereto, and who shall be found
guilty thereof, shall be fined not less than $1 nor more than $200 for each
offense. Each motor vehicle involved shall constitute a separate offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person violating §
93.40 shall be fined $25. This fine shall be deposited in the Town General Fund
to be used for Fire Department equipment.
(1983 Code, § 13-1-1-10)
(Ord. 80-5, passed 1-3-1981; Ord. passed 11-7-1981; Ord. 2014-1, passed - -
2014)
CHAPTER 94: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
94.01   General application
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Loud and unnecessary noise prohibited
   
94.04   Enumeration of certain prohibited acts
   
94.05   Prohibited noise
   
94.06   Exemptions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 GENERAL APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the control of all noise
within the town limits, as it now exists or may hereafter be established.
(Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-13-1998)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle powered by a mechanical engine, and designed to
be driven or used on any public or private property. Such definition shall
include, but not be limited to, automobiles, vans, trucks, motorcycles, motor
scooters, dune buggies, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, go-carts, mini bikes
and trail bikes.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership, joint venture or
corporation which includes any officer, and employee, department, agency or
instrumentality thereof.
(Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-13-1998)
§ 94.03 LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to make any loud,
raucous, improper, unreasonable, offensive or unusual noise, disorder or
tumult, which disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace
or safety of others within, the town, or to permit such noise, disorder or
tumult to be made in or about his or her house or premises, and the same is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Further, it shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, manager, agent
or operator of any property, structure, vehicle or business in the town, to
prevent persons using property under his, her or their control from violating
this chapter.
(Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-13-1998) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 ENUMERATION OF CERTAIN PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   The following acts, uses or noises, among others, subject to specific
exemptions, are declared to be loud, raucous or disturbing noises in violation
of this chapter.
   (B)   Such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as
to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at
any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the
person who is in the room, vehicle or property in which such machine or device
is operated and who is a voluntary listener;
      (2)   Using, operating or permitting the use of operation of any machine,
instrument or device capable of producing or reproducing of sound which is cast
upon other properties including the public right-of-way for the purpose of
commercial advertising or to attract attention to any activity, performance,
sale, place or structure;
      (3)   Using, operating or permitting the use of operation of any machine,
instrument or device capable of producing or reproducing any sound on any
public transportation vehicle; and
      (4)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound on any public
right-of-way adjacent to any school, institution of higher learning, church or
court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital which unreasonably
interferes with the working of such institution, or which unduly disturbs
patients in the hospital.
(Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-13-1998) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 PROHIBITED NOISE.
   No person shall play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or operated,
any machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound, if it is
located in or on any of the following:
   (A)   Any public property, including any public right-of-way, highway,
building sidewalk, park or thoroughfare, if the sound generated is audible at a
distance of 30 feet from its source; and
   (B)   Any motor vehicle on a public right-of-way, highway or public space if
the sound generated is audible at a distance of 30 feet from the device
producing the sound.
(Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-13-1998) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions shall not be permitted within any duly established “quiet
zone” when such zone is designated by appropriate signage.
   (B)   The following shall be exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors and similar home power tools when
properly muffled, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
      (3)   Burglar alarms or other warning devices when properly installed on
publicly or privately owned property, providing the cause for such alarm or
warning device sound is investigated and turned off within a reasonable period
of time;
      (4)   Celebrations on Halloween and legal holidays;
      (5)   Permitted parades or festivals;
      (6)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic
or sporting events and practices related to them;
      (7)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency work;
      (8)   Sounds associated with the normal conduction of a legally
established non-transient business within the normal range appropriate for such
use; and
      (9)   In the case of motor vehicles, where the noise is the result of a
defective or modified exhaust system, if the cause is repaired or otherwise
remedied within seven calendar days.
(Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-13-1998)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined a sum of not less than $25 for the first offense, a sum of
not less than $50 for the second offense, and a sum of not less than $100, nor
more than $150. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-13-1998)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Street/Alley Excavation Permit, Standards; Street Repair
   
95.01   Policy
   
95.02   Permit fee
   
95.03   Application
   
95.04   Standards
   
95.05   Street sign standards
   
95.06   Right-of-way dedication
STREET/ALLEY EXCAVATION PERMIT, STANDARDS; STREET REPAIR
§ 95.01 POLICY.
   The application form in §
95.03, and the “standards” identified as §
95.04 constitute the policy for excavation in the street and alley rights-of-
way of the town.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 3-23-1998)
§ 95.02 PERMIT FEE.
   A permit fee of $25 is to be paid to the town for each permit application.
Public utilities and tree planting shall be exempt from the fee but shall
conform to all other provisions of the standards.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 3-23-1998)
§ 95.03 APPLICATION.
APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT TO EXCAVATE
WITHIN STREET OR ALLEY RIGHTS-OF-WAY OF INGALLS, INDIANA
Fee ________   Check# ________   Receipt
_________   Permit#________   Date________
Contractor Name ___________________________________________   Phone
________________
Address ________________________________________________________________
Applicant _________________________________________________   Phone
_________________
Address
_____________________________________________________________________________
Pager# _______________   Cell Phone# __________________   After
hrs#__________________
Excavate - Location:
___________________________________________________________________
Purpose:
____________________________________________________________________________
Type of Street Surface: ___________________________ [A copy of Worker’s Comp &
Liability must
                                       be attached]
1.   All applicants must request utility locates from “Holy Moly” service prior
to any work.
2.   The Superintendent of Streets is to be notified at the beginning of the
work; and also prior to any backfilling and placement of patch materials of
placement of driveways, curbs or sidewalks.
3.   Upon completion of all work, the applicant shall request an inspection by
the Superintendent of Streets. If all the work is satisfactory, he or she will
sign the release.
4.   If the work is deemed unacceptable, the town shall reserve the right to
withhold the release for up to one year from date of work.
5.   I/We further agree to assume all responsibility for any injury or damage
to persons or property resulting directly or indirectly from the work proposed
in this application.
6.   I acknowledge the receipt of the rules and regulations and agree to abide
by them per Ordinance 1998-5.
7.   A bond may be required for proposed work at the discretion of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer as circumstances dictate.
Accepted by:
                              ________________________
Signature _______________________               Release Date
                              ________________________
Company _______________________                Street Dept. Inspector
                              _____________________
Address ________________________               Position
_______________________________
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 3-23-1998)
§ 95.04 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Drawings and/or any additional information may be requested by the
town.
   (B)   Street or alley: no cut to be less than 18 inches wide.
      (1)   Asphalt pavement:
         (a)   May be chisel cut with four-inch blade and then saw cut straight
prior to replacement;
         (b)   Base and pavement materials shall be replaced identical to or
better than original;
         (c)   All seams shall be tack coated and shall be ironed as necessary
to provide a perfect joining of the patch with the surrounding pavement; and
         (d)   No cold mix asphalt is to be used except as a temporary patch.
      (2)   Concrete pavement:
         (a)   Shall be saw cut;
         (b)   Patch shall be at least 4000# concrete;
         (c)   Edges of adjoining pavement shall be coated with an epoxy
adhesive intended for concrete patching; and
         (d)   Area shall be barricaded for proper curing time. Barricaded per
division (J)(2)(c) through (J)(2)(e) below.
      (3)   Gravel pavement: all repairs shall be made with granular backfill
(per division (I)(1) below).
   (C)   Curbs, rolled or straight, all to be saw cut.
      (1)   Asphalt: all materials to be equal to or better than original and
formed to match original contour.
      (2)   Concrete:
         (a)   Area shall be excavated to depth to match mating curb; and
         (b)   All materials to be equal to or better than original and formed
to match existing curb.
   (D)   Sidewalks, concrete:
      (1)   To be saw cut;
      (2)   Four inches thick in pedestrian area, minimum of six inches thick
in vehicle area;
      (3)   All replacement concrete to be fiber reinforced; and
      (4)   Base shall be minimum two inches pea gravel or two inches sand
compacted.
   (E)   Driveway: all to be saw cut:
      (1)   Asphalt:
         (a)   Minimum five inches base coat or match existing with one-inch
top coat; and
         (b)   Backfill per division (I)(1) below.
      (2)   Concrete:
         (a)   Minimum six-inch fiber reinforced concrete; and
         (b)   Backfill per division (I)(1) below.
      (3)   Gravel:
         (a)   Shall be minimum of six inches of #73 stone and topped with two
inches material equal to or better than original; and
         (b)   Backfill per division (I)(1) below.
   (F)   Lawn area:
      (1)   Shall be top soiled, fertilized, seeded, mulched or straw and
restored to original contour. Watered as necessary for growth; and
      (2)   If settlement of more than four inches occurs within three years of
date of closer of excavation, permit holder shall repair the area.
   (G)   Grade work: all finish grade contoured to adjoining area.
      (1)   Sodding:
         (a)   A minimum of two-inch good top soil to be applied prior to
seeding; and
         (b)   Sod to be a good high quality blue grass.
      (2)   Seeding:
         (a)   A minimum of two-inch good top soil applied before seeding;
         (b)   Seed to be a high quality blue grass or high quality seed mix;
and
         (c)   Mulch or straw cover and water as necessary to advance growth.
   (H)   Drainage:
      (1)   Swales/grades to follow land contour to provide original drainage;
and
      (2)   Pipes/conduits to be placed per specs for proper size and location.
   (I)   Backfill, granular:
      (1)   All but top two feet shall be compacted lifts not to exceed 12
inches; and
      (2)   Top two feet shall be compacted #73 stone placed in maximum eight
inches lifts.
   (J)   Cut and patch protection:
      (1)   Hot asphalt:
         (a)   Shall meet specs as prescribed;
         (b)   All joints, edges or exposed faces of curbing and pavement shall
be cleaned and tack coated;
         (c)   Final surface shall be machine rolled with equipment standard to
the industry; and
         (d)   Hand tamping not allowed.
      (2)   New concrete:
         (a)   Shall not be placed at temperature below 35°F;
         (b)   Shall be protected against excessive dehydration;
         (c)   Shall be closed to traffic a minimum of 48 hours;
         (d)   Three-quarter-inch steel plates shall be used to cover area; and
         (e)   Approved barricades and flashing lights shall be placed
appropriately.
   (K)   Permit holder shall be responsible for all subcontractors work and
materials used.
   (L)   Permit holder shall make provisions to maintain proper traffic flow at
all times. For any road closings, a person must notify officials.
   (M)   Emergency notification.
      (1)   When threat to public safety exists, the town will immediately
barricade the area. Any costs accrued must be paid by permit holder.
      (2)   Permit holder shall be notified by telephone or in person of the
hazard.
   (N)   Permit holder shall be responsible for maintenance for a period of
three years for area of public way where work was performed.
   (O)   Excavation on a state road easement within the town limits will
require a state permit in addition to the local permit.
   (P)   The Town Manager may deny a permit application that for any reason is
not in the best interest of the town. Applicant may appeal the decision in
writing to the Town Council.
   (Q)   Trees in right of ways are required to be protected and/or replaced
per tree. Tree damage may not be immediately noticeable so there will be a
three-year maintenance period.
   (R)   Under no circumstances will a permit be issued before all required
reviews have been conducted by appropriate town authorities.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 3-23-1998)
§ 95.05 STREET SIGN STANDARDS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db99456324347fcdd46f35450cf18bf54d4b2133/
IMAGES/0-0-0-774.png]
 
(Ord. 030821, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY DEDICATION.
   (A)   Definitions.
      ACQUISITION. The act of taking the land from its original owner by
another party, with legal rights to take the real property.
      DEDICATION. Conveyance of land to the town by deed with map exhibit or
some other instrument of conveyance including a duly filed and recorded
subdivision plat.
      DEEDING. Refers to the legal document through which the town gains
ownership over a property.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Refers to an area of land appropriated for public use such
as sidewalk, multi-use path, trail, driveway, alley, street, or highway or for
any drainage or public utility purpose or other similar public uses or
purposes.
      THOROUGHFARE PLAN. Refers to the transportation plan or study included as
part of the most recently adopted town comprehensive plan.
      TRANSPORTATION FACILITY. Sidewalks, multi-use paths, trails, driveways,
alleys, streets, highways, or another type of facility that moves people and/or
goods from one place to another.
   (B)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   This section establishes guidelines for the applicability,
conformance, and extent for dedication and deeding of right-of-way.
      (2)   This section is essential to the preservation of existing and
proposed transportation corridors that are expected to require improvements due
to increasing traffic. A growing number of residential, commercial, and
industrial developments strains the capacity of the existing transportation
network. The acquisition of right-of-way necessary to support future
transportation demand is a costly and possibly damaging process for community
development. However, this section establishes the method by which the Town of
Ingalls will systematically preserve the right-of-way as development occurs to
minimize the cost of future transportation improvements.
   (C)   Applicability.
      (1)   Property owners shall be required to dedicate right-of-way to the
town in accordance with the prescribed width per the Thoroughfare Plan.
Dedication of right-of-way is to occur when it is found reasonably necessary to
mitigate an impact or any future impact which is a result of a proposed
development or redevelopment, for the improvement, use, or maintenance of the
transportation system. Dedication of right-of-way is for transportation
purposes as a condition of approval for new development or redevelopment.
      (2)   Right-of-way dedication shall be required in the following cases:
         (a)   To obtain the right-of-way reasonably necessary for the
construction of frontage improvements (sidewalks, multi-use paths, trails,
frontage roads, drainage, public utilities or other public uses) along the
frontage of the development's parcel. This may include right-of-way necessary
to attain sufficient intersection sight distance in accordance with the
following publications and regulations:
            1.   Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) Driveway Permit
Manual, latest edition; and
            2.   INDOT Design Manual.
         (b)   To obtain the right-of-way reasonably necessary for the
construction of any other improvements, either along the frontage of the
development or off-site, as may be required in the town's site approval
process.
         (c)   To obtain the right-of-way reasonably necessary such that an
existing offset road shall be located within right-of-way after the right-of-
way dedication.
         (d)   To obtain the right-of-way reasonably necessary for maintenance
of town transportation, drainage facilities, and/or public utility purposes.
   (D)   Extent, conveyance, and timing.
      (1)   All dedicated rights-of-way for any development shall conform to
the minimum widths identified within the functional classification map.
      (2)   If determined to be necessary by the Town Manager or Plan
Commission, all dedicated rights-of-way shall include minimal additional right-
of-way along arterial and collector classified roadways as necessary to
accommodate turn pockets and/or passing blisters.
      (3)   If the property owner only controls the property on one side of the
transportation facility, then satisfactory right-of-way shall be dedicated in
order to bring the applicable half of the right-of-way up to the widths
required in the functional classification map. The Town Manager or Plan
Commission shall determine the satisfactory right-of-way necessary, accounting
for overall right-of-way limitations and constrains, such as, but not limited
to, the impact on adjacent historic and natural resources.
      (4)   When right-of-way is required to be dedicated, it shall be conveyed
by warranty deed or another form of conveyance. If requested by the Town
Manager or Plan Commission, all warranty deeds and other documents of
conveyance or dedication of right-of-way must be accompanied by a title report
effective as of the date of conveyance shown on the deed or other document of
conveyance. The description on the deed or other document of conveyance must
match the legal description on the title report. The warranty deed or other
document of conveyance may be accepted on behalf of the town by the Town
Manager or Plan Commission.
      (5)   The town shall only accept rights-of-way which have a clear title.
      (6)   Required right-of-way must be conveyed to and accepted by the town
prior to issuance of any building permit. If the right-of-way dedication is in
conjunction with a subdivision, the dedication process required as part of the
final plat process shall be followed.
      (7)   When necessary, the town may begin eminent domain proceedings in
accordance with I.C. 32-24, as amended. Upon completion of the eminent domain
proceedings, the property owner shall reimburse the town in an amount equal to
the price paid by the town for the public right-of-way and associated
professional and legal expenses, anything that had to be condemned within the
acquired right-of-way, and anything for which the town paid the price of
relocation.
(Ord. 032221A, passed 4-12-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   RECREATIONAL GAMES
      
113.   BILLBOARDS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Authority to license
   
110.02   Duration of license; display required
   
110.03   Issuance, revocation or suspension
   
110.04   Itinerant merchants
   
110.05   Solicitation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 AUTHORITY TO LICENSE.
   The town has the authority to impose a license fee that is reasonably
related to the administrative cost of exercising such regulating powers.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 110.02 DURATION OF LICENSE; DISPLAY REQUIRED.
   (A)   All licenses issued under this chapter, unless specified otherwise on
the license, shall be issued for the duration of the calendar year for which
they were issued and shall expire on December 31.
   (B)   Every person who is issued a license under the provisions of the
licensed activity is being conducted or if there are not premises shall carry
the license while engaged in the activity for which he or she has been licensed
and shall exhibit it to any town official or citizen upon request.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 110.03 ISSUANCE, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue licenses upon payment of the license
fees and compliance with the applicable provisions of this code and Town
Council approval.
   (B)   Licenses issued by the town may be revoked or suspended if the person
holding the license has violated the terms or conditions of the license or the
law under which it was issued or has conducted the business in such a manner as
to constitute a threat to public health, safety or general welfare of the
town’s citizens.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 110.04 ITINERANT MERCHANTS.
   (A)   No person shall sell or take orders for any goods or services without
first applying for and being issued a registration certificate.
   (B)   (1)   An applicant for a registration certificate shall execute an
application form at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer prior to engaging in any
soliciting in the town.
      (2)   The form shall require:
         (a)   The applicant’s name, home address and local address, if any;
         (b)   The make, model year and license plat number of the applicant’s
automobile;
         (c)   A photograph or a physical description of the applicant;
         (d)   The name and address or principal office of the person, firm,
organization or corporation for whom the applicant is authorized to conduct
such activity solely on his or her own behalf;
         (e)   A brief description of the type of goods or sendees to be sold
and a statement whether delivery of such goods or services is to be immediate
or in the future;
         (f)   The applicant appear at the Police Department and allow himself
or herself to be fingerprinted; and
         (g)   A sample of the order and receipt form used by applicant if the
applicant canvasses or solicits orders.
   (C)   At the time of executing such application form, the applicant shall
also submit in person for the inspection of the Chief of Police written proof
of his or her identity and a specimen of the applicant’s signature.
   (D)   If, after the issuance of the registration certificate, the
information in the application shall become inaccurate for any reason and the
holder of the registration certificate intends to continue his or her activity,
notice of such change and the correct information shall be furnished to the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer within 24 hours.
   (E)   The certificate issued shall be for a period of two months from the
date of issuance and shall expire on the date specified in the certificate.
   (F)   Upon compliance of the applicant with the above provisions, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a registration certificate which shall be dated and
signed by the Clerk-Treasurer, providing that the Clerk-Treasurer has not found
applicant’s previous registration certificate revoked. Each applicant shall pay
the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $10 to defray the costs of the administration of
this section.
   (G)   All certificates are nontransferable and entitle the holder to sell,
distribute, solicit or canvass, within the town, subject to the following
conditions: the holder shall have the certificate in his or her possession at
all times and shall exhibit the same at any time upon request by any police
officer or by any individual.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 7-26-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 SOLICITATION.
   Solicitation of monetary gifts or donations, or the sale of goods or
services for the benefit of the individual or individuals performing the
solicitation is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 082415A, passed 8-24-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter shall be enforced to
the Ordinance Violations Bureau with the first violation in any calendar year
resulting in a fine of $ 100, the second violation in any calendar year
resulting in a fine of $200, and the third and subsequent violation in any
calendar year resulting in a fine of $250. Should enforcement of this chapter
through the county court system be required, the violator, in addition to the
fine set forth above, shall be responsible for all attorneys’ fees incurred by
the town.
(Ord. 082415A, passed 8-24-2015)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Liquor retailers’ permits
§ 111.01 LIQUOR RETAILERS’ PERMITS.
   The Council may grant liquor retailers’ permits to applicants for the sale
of alcoholic beverages in accordance with I.C. 7.1-3-9-3.
(1983 Code, § 7.1-3-9-3) (Ord. passed 12-2-1968)
Statutory reference:
   Issuance, cities or towns under 5,000, see I.C. 7.1-3-9-3
CHAPTER 112: RECREATIONAL GAMES
Section
   
112.01   Licensing of recreational establishments
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 LICENSING OF RECREATIONAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a billiard table, card table, pool table,
pinball or electronic game device at any place of public accommodation within
the town prior to applying to the Clerk-Treasurer for a license for the same.
The applicant for the license shall state the name of the person to be
licensed; his or her residence; whether he or she has been convicted of any
felony or misdemeanor; his or her previous occupation for the past five years;
the number of tables for billiards, pool, cards, pinball or electronic game
devices he or she anticipates installing in the town location; and the location
of the same. The Clerk-Treasurer shall submit the application to the Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a license for the operation of billiard, pool or card
tables, pinball or electronic game devices.
   (B)   No pool table, billiard table, card table, pinball or electronic game
device for which a license to operate is procured shall be operated in
violation of town law.
   (C)   No licensee operating pool or billiard tables, card tables, pinball or
electronic game devices shall operate said pool tables, billiard tables, card
tables, pinball or electronic game devices in a secret or concealed room or
rooms. The room shall be open at all times to the public, and all the above
listed devices must be visible at all times. The room where the pool tables,
billiard tables, card tables, pinball or electronic game devices are located
must be emptied of all personnel, including owners or operators, 30 minutes
after closing time.
   (D)   Every licensee who obtains a license to operate or maintain pool
tables, billiard tables, card tables, pinball or electronic game devices, for
the purpose of providing or permitting entertainment to persons under 18 years
of age must set and abide by the closing time of at least 30 minutes before
curfew as defined by state law and the code, or as directed by the Town
Marshal, or other county or state police agencies.
   (E)   No person shall keep and exhibit to be played upon for hire or gain,
any pool table, billiard table, card table, pinball or electronic game device
within the town, without having first raving obtained a license to do so from
the town as herein provided.
   (F)   All licenses issued in accordance with this section shall be valid for
the period from January 1 to December 31 of the following year. Renewal fees
shall be due and payable to the town on or before December 31 of each year.
Persons receiving permits issued on or after July 1 shall pay one-half of the
license fee.
   (G)   License permit fee shall be assessed as follows:
      (1)   Each pool or billiard table: $25;
      (2)   Each pinball or other mechanical electronic device for
entertainment: $25; and
      (3)   Each card table: $25.
   (H)   Each licensee under this section agrees to allow inspection of his or
her premises at any time by the Town Police Department. The failure of said
licensee to provide a valid permit for each license category, as set forth in
division (G) above shall subject said licensee to immediate revocation of all
permits held by said licensee.
   (I)   A license issued under this section my be revoked upon conviction of
the license holder of maintaining a disorderly, indecent or improper place,
permitting gambling in any form or the unlawful possession or sale of alcoholic
beverages or controlled substance on the premises. The license holder shall
receive written notice, stating that a hearing shall be held no sooner than ten
days following the mailing of the notice to determine if the license should be
revoked for the violation of this section or as a public nuisance. The Council
may instruct the Town Attorney to bring injunction proceedings to compel the
enforcement of this section. This section does not apply to benevolent or
fraternal organization which owns, keeps, maintains billiard pool or card
tables, for use by its own members and not for hire.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-15-2000) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating provision of §
112.01 shall be fined a sum of $25. Each and every day any pool table, billiard
table, card table, pinball or electronic game device is kept and exhibited to
be played upon for hire or gain constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-15-2000)
CHAPTER 113: BILLBOARDS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Requirements
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to create the legal framework for a
comprehensive and balanced system of signs to facilitate an easy and pleasant
communication between people and their environment and to avoid the visual
clutter that is potentially harmful to traffic and pedestrian safety, property
values, business opportunities and community appearance. With these purposes in
mind, it is the intent of this chapter to authorize the use of signs which meet
these requirements.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 10-16-2000)
§ 113.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The face of an advertising sign shall not be greater than 18 feet in
vertical dimension nor greater than 55 feet in horizontal dimension and shall
not contain more than two advertising signs per face.
   (B)   The maximum height of advertising signs erected on the ground shall
not exceed 40 feet above the street elevation to which the sign is oriented.
   (C)   One advertising sign may be permitted on any lot at least 300 feet of
frontage on a public street or highway and all such signs shall be separated a
distance of at least 500 feet even if located on the opposite side of a public
street or highway.
   (D)   No advertising sign shall be permitted within 300 feet of a
residential zone district unless the sign is provided with the landscape
screening.
   (E)   The outdoor advertising sign is considered a principal use, and there
shall be no other uses on the same lot that the sign is located.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 10-16-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Curfew hours
   
130.02   Guardian/parent responsibility
   
130.03   Exceptions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW HOURS.
   Curfew hours for the town are hereby established as 11:00 p.m. until 5:00
a.m. Sunday night through Thursday night, and 1:00 a.m. until 5:00 a.m.
Saturday morning and Sunday morning.
(1983 Code, § 31-6-4-2(a)) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 130.02 GUARDIAN/PARENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent, guardian or other person having the legal custody and control of
any minor person shall permit the minor to be or remain in or upon any of the
streets, alleys, parks or other places within the town during curfew hours.
(1983 Code, § 31-6-4-2(b)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   Section 130.02 shall not apply if any minor is accompanied by his or her
parents or guardian, or by any other person having the legal custody and
control of the minor; or if he or she is engaged in the performance of a lawful
errand, employment or duly authorized and directed by such parent, guardian or
other person having the legal care and custody of any such minor, and if such
minor has in his or her possession a written permit from any such person, or
employer, showing the reason and necessity to be upon or in the street, alley,
park or other public place during curfew hours.
(1983 Code, § 31-6-4-2(c))
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any parent, guardian or other person having the legal care and custody
of such minor or minors who violates the provisions of §
130.01 shall be fined $5 for the first offense, $25 for the second offense and
$50 for each offense thereafter.
(1983 Code, § 31-6-4-2(d)) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 8-28-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Curfew, see I.C. 31-37-3 et seq.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
      
153.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   House number signage
   
150.02   Erosion control plans
   
150.03   Manufactured housing
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 HOUSE NUMBER SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Any structure within the town bearing a street address shall have
affixed to it signage reflecting the street address of such structure which
signage shall be at least four inches in height and is clearly visible from the
street upon which the structure sits so as to allow emergency response vehicles
and personnel to clearly identify the structure’s address.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable in the same manner as any
other violation of the Town Building Code.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 1-23-2006) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 EROSION CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   Before any person or firm commences any land disturbing activity, he,
she or it shall prepare and implement a plan for controlling erosion consistent
with the general permit for construction activity administered by the State
Department of Environmental Management (327 I.A.C. 15) and the Rules for
Erosion Control which are attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated by reference.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such plan, the Plan Commission shall review and
approve the proposed erosion control measures to ensure compliance with the
general permit for construction activity (327 I.A.C. 15) and the rules for
erosion control which are attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 1-23-2006) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 MANUFACTURED HOUSING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A dwelling unit fabricated on or after January 1,
1989, in an offsite manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the
building site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with
the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, being 42 U.S.C. §§
5401 et seq. or I.C. 22-15-4 et seq., as promulgated by the State
Administrative Building Council.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODES. Title IV of
the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder, which include the Department of
Housing and Urban Development approved information supplied by the home
manufacturer, and regulations and interpretations of the code by the State
Administrative Building Council.
      ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE. The mandatory statewide building code
adopted by the State Administrative Building Council for one- and two-family
residential dwellings.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT. A device for permitting a use within a district
other than a principally permitted one.
   (B)   Permitted placement:
      (1)   The establishment, location and use of manufactured homes as
scattered-site residences shall be permitted in any zone permitting
installation of a dwelling unit subject to requirements and limitations
applying generally to such residential use in the district and provided such
homes shall meet the following requirements and limitations.
         (a)   The home shall meet all requirements applicable to single-family
dwelling and posses all necessary improvements, building and occupancy permits
and other certification required by the code.
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall have a minimum square footage of 1,400
square feet in any area of the town.
         (c)   The home shall be attached and anchored to a permanent
foundation in conformance with the regulations in the State One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code and with manufacturer’s installation specifications.
         (d)   The home shall be covered with an exterior material customarily
used on-site built residential dwellings, and such material shall extend over
the top of the foundation or comply with the town site built residential
dwelling home standards.
         (e)   The home shall have a roof composed of a material customarily
used on site-built residential dwellings, such as asbestos, fiberglass, shake,
asphalt or tile, which shall be installed onto a surface appropriately pitched
for the materials used.
      (2)   Standards for manufactured housing:
         (a)   The Council establishes the following standards for manufactured
housing.
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall have a minimum dimension in length and
width of 24 feet and shall be oriented with the longer dimension parallel with
the street which bears their numeric addresses.
            1.   a.   The main body of the house shall be a rectangle.
               b.   The full perimeter foundation shall be improved by a
masonary with motor joint construction wall of sufficient height for the
manufactured housing unit to rest on.
            2.   The main roof shall be pitched, rather than flat.
            3.   The house shall face the street, and ordinarily shall be
parallel to the street.
            4.   The exterior walls shall resemble wood or masonry regardless
of the actual composition.
            5.   The main roof shall be shingled.
            6.   The foundation shall form a complete enclosure under exterior
walls. Enclosure shall be completed in three sides before the manufactured
housing may be brought to the site for installation. The fourth side of the
complete enclosure shall be completed within 30 days after the manufactured
housing is delivered.
            7.   Apparent bulk shall be about the same throughout the
neighborhood. An occasional larger house may be allowed, but none shall be
permitted that look substantially smaller than the general run.
            8.   The manufactured dwelling shall have been manufactured within
three calendar years of the date of the application for a permit.
   (C)   No house trailer of mobile home shall be placed or parked on a lot
upon where a house or part of a house is situated. All house trailers or mobile
homes shall be parked not less than 25 feet from the front property lines. The
Board may issue a special exception permit for certain uses and placements not
in accordance with these requirements. The setback requirements for
manufactured housing is amended to 21 feet to be consistent with the setback
requirements for all other types of housing within the town.
   (D)   The plans for all manufactured housing shall be submitted and approved
by the Town Council or Board of Zoning Appeals before any manufactured housing
may be placed within the town.
   (E)   All manufactured housing shall be individually connected to the Fall
Creek Regional Waste District facilities.
   (F)   The space under all house trailers or mobile homes shall be completely
enclosed with a permanent, solid material. The enclosure shall be completed
within 30 days after the house trailer or mobile home is placed or parked
within the town.
   (G) The owner or occupant of any house trailer or mobile home shall provide,
construct or install a permanent driveway of concrete, black-top, gravel or
stone of 25 feet length and accommodate the parking of two automobiles side by
side. The driveway shall be completed before any house trailer or mobile home
is parked or placed within the town, and prior to issuance of a building
permit.
   (H)   The town shall charge a fee of $100 with respect to any applications
concerning manufactured housing. The application fee is not refundable. In the
event that the application is approved and a permit issued, there is no further
charge for the permit.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-4-1106) (Ord. 1993-1, passed 4-12-1993; Ord. 2000-3, passed
5-8-2000; Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-18-2004) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
150.03 shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $200. Each day a
violation continues constitutes a separate offense. If any violation of §
150.03 continues for more than 30 days, the Town Building Inspector may order
the removal of the house trailer, mobile home or manufactured housing.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-4-1106)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Unsafe buildings
   
151.02   Demolition permits
Building Code
   
151.15   Title
   
151.16   Purpose
   
151.17   Authority
   
151.18   Scope
   
151.19   Adoption of rules by reference
   
151.20   Application for permits
   
151.21   Permit required
   
151.22   Other ordinances
   
151.23   Fees and required inspections
   
151.24   Review of application
   
151.25   Inspection
   
151.26   Inspection assistance
   
151.27   Entry
   
151.28   Stop order
   
151.29   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.30   Workmanship
   
151.31   Violations
   
151.32   Right of appeal
   
151.33   Remedies
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the
Town Unsafe Building Law.
   (B)   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby incorporated by reference in
the Town Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within the town for the
inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by said
law and the provisions of this section. In the event the provisions of this
section conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-8-9-28, then
the provisions of the state statute shall control.
   (C)   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined
after inspection by the Building Commissioner to be unsafe as defined in this
section are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
   (D)   The Town Building Commissioner, as chief administrative officer of the
Department of Planning, shall be authorized to administer and to proceed under
the provisions of said law in ordering the repair or removal of any buildings
found to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified hereafter.
   (E)   Wherever in the building regulations of the town or the Town Unsafe
Building Law, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner, or any other officer of
the Town Planning Department, this shall be construed to give such officer only
the discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by
ordinance have been complied with; and no such provisions shall be construed as
giving any officer discretionary powers as to what such regulations or
standards shall be, power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance, or
to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
   (F)   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the town by adding the following definition. For the purpose of
this section, the following definition shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described, provided that such conditions or
defects exist to the extent that life, health, property or safety of the public
or its occupants are endangered:
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (b)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway
or other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose or otherwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (c)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
         (d)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the
structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before
such catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
         (e)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injury
persons or damage property;
         (f)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
         (g)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
         (h)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of:
            1.   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
            2.   Faulty construction;
            3.   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
            4.   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
            5.   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely
collapse.
         (i)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose of which it is being
used;
         (j)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
         (l)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become:
            1.   An attractive nuisance to children; or
            2.   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this Town Planning Department, or of any law or ordinance of the state or
Town Planning Department relating to the condition, location or structure of
buildings;
         (n)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-
supporting part, member or portion less than 50%, or in supporting part, member
or portion less than 66% of the:
            1.   Strength;
            2.   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
            3.   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy
in the same location.
         (o)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used
for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Building Commissioner to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is likely
to cause sickness or disease;
         (p)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exists, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined by the Town Fire Chief to
be a fire hazard; and/or
         (q)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
   (G)   The definition of “substantial property interest” set forth in I.C.
36-7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
   (H)   All work for the reconstruction, repair or demolition of buildings and
other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according to
the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions of the
building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission, shall be considered standard and
acceptable practice for all matters covered by this section or orders issued
pursuant to this section by the Building Commissioner of the town.
   (I)   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget
of the Town Planning Department in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-
9-14.
   (J)   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this section or any order issued, by the Building Commissioner.
Any person violating the provisions of this section or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall
commit a Class C infraction for each day such violation continues.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 3-21-1994)
§ 151.02 DEMOLITION PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person or entity desiring to demolish a structure or building,
must first apply for and obtain a demolition permit utilizing the forms and
processes as adopted and as amended or supplemented in the future by the
Building Inspector and subject to any terms, conditions or procedures
prescribed by the Building Inspector for the subject demolition.
   (B)   All such demolition permits shall be valid for a period not to exceed
60 days from the date of issuance.
   (C)   Simultaneous with the application for a demolition permit, the
applicant shall pay a fee of $50 for such permit, $40 for the demolition pre-
inspection of the property, and $40 for the post-demolition inspection.
(Ord. 101617, passed 10-16-2017)
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of the Town of Ingalls Indiana”, may be cited as
such, and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(1)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 151.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction outbuildings and
structures.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(2)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 151.17 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce all of the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Whenever in this code, it is provided that anything must be done to
the approval of or subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner or any
other officer of the town, this shall be construed to give such officer only
the discretion of determining whether this code has been complied with; and no
such provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as
to what this code shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by
ordinances or to enforce this code in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
   (C)   Any variance from adopted building rules are subject to approval under
I.C. 22-13-2-7(b).
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(3)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 151.18 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alteration, repair,
use, occupancy and addition to all building and structures, other than
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified, under I.C. 22-
15-4, in the town.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(4)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 151.19 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following Articles of Title 675 of the Indiana
Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in this code and shall
include later amendments to those articles as the same are published in the
Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   Indiana Building Code;
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code:
         (a)   Council of America Building Officials One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code;
         (b)   CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code; Amendments; and
         (c)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes: Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes: Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Code:
         (a)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Codes: Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(5)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for a permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and Release, issued by the State
Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1,
shall be provided to the Building Commissioner before issuance of a permit for
construction covered by such design release.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(6)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 151.21 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A building permit shall be obtained before any structure, or any part
of any structure, may be constructed, reconstructed, repaired or replaced,
moved, enlarged, structurally altered or upgraded in its plumbing or electrical
systems.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, the Building Inspector, in his or
her discretion, may waive the requirement of a building permit in the following
instances:
      (1)   Routine maintenance, repairs or remodeling of existing structures
not involving any change of use, additional lot coverage or increase in
structure size;
      (2)   Lot and yard improvements such as fences, patios, decks less than
100 square feet, retaining walls, play equipment, gazebos less than 100 square
feet; and
      (3)   Mini-barns that are portable and less than 100 square feet.
   (C)   A building permit issued under this section shall be valid for a
period of one year.
      (1)   If the work for which the building permit had been issued has not
been completed within the one-year period, the building permit may be extended
for an additional six months.
      (2)   No additional extensions will be granted.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(7)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990; Ord. 2006-10, passed 9-11-2006) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.22 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all
other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for permits,
there shall be paid the fees prescribed in such ordinance.
   (B)   There is hereby established a “good neighbor” fence policy which
provides that no privacy fence shall be constructed along the front of a
residence; shall not exceed a height of four feet in the front nor exceed a
height of six feet on any other side; that any fence shall be constructed of
either wood, masonry, vinyl or chain link; and the construction frame shall
face the inside of the property being enclosed.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(8)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990; Ord. 2005-3, passed 6-14-2005) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.23 FEES AND REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Permits required by §
151.21 shall be issued upon prior payment of inspection fees according to the
following schedule:
Type of Construction Required Inspections Single Inspection Fee
Type of Construction             Required Inspections Single Inspection Fee
(1) 1- or 2-family dwelling,     4                    $30
detached
(2) Apartments, hotels, motels,  3                    $30
each unit
(3) Business, commercial, public 6                    $50, plus $150 per hour
(4) Educational, institutional,  6                    $30
church
(5) Industrial, warehouse, bulk  6                    $50, plus $150 per hour
storage
(6) Mobile homes, temporary      1                    $30
structures
(7) Accessory buildings          1                    $30
(residential use)
(8) Additions/alterations (all   2                    $30
occupancies)
Type of Construction Permit Fee
Type of Construction                        Permit Fee
(1) 1- or 2-family dwelling, detached       $250
(2) Apartments, hotels, motels, each unit   $60
(3) Business, commercial, public            $300, plus $0.10 per square foot
(4) Educational, institutional, church      $120
(5) Industrial, warehouse, bulk storage     $300, plus $0.10 per square foot
(6) Mobile homes, temporary structures      $20
(7) Accessory buildings (residential use)   $20
(8) Additions/alterations (all occupancies) $40
 
   (B)   The minimum permit fee for any permit shall be $20. For unusually
large or complex buildings or structures, the Building Commissioner shall have
the power to increase the number of required inspections by 50%.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner shall in all cases designate the stage of
construction when each required inspection must be requested by the permit
holder.
      (2)   No concrete shall be placed for foundations without prior
inspection. No electrical, mechanical, plumbing or thermal insulation work
shall be covered without prior inspection.
      (3)   Where additional inspections are required due to failure of permit
holder to have work ready for inspection at a designated stage of construction,
the Building Commissioner shall have the power to assess a reinspection fee of
$20 for each such additional inspection.
      (4)   Reinspection fees shall be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer prior
to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. The Building Commissioner shall
submit an annual report to the town, which shall include an analysis of
inspections preformed, permit fees collected, cost of inspection operations and
recommendations for adjustment of required inspections and single inspection
fees as necessary.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(9)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990; Ord. 2003-8, passed 10-20-2003; Ord. 2007-7, passed 11-29-2007)
§ 151.24 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this code;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
      (1)   Uses construction material and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
      (3)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(10)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 151.25 INSPECTION.
   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner shall
make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as are
necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this code and the
terms of the permit. Re-inspections of work found to be incomplete or not ready
for inspection are subject to assessment of re-inspection fees as prescribed in
this code.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(11)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 151.26 INSPECTION ASSISTANCE.
   The Chief of the fire Department, or his or her designated representative,
shall assist the Building Commissioner in the inspection of fire suppression,
detection and alarm systems and shall provide reports of such inspection to the
Building Commissioner.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(12)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 151.27 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises in the town to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this code.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(13)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 151.28 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done, contrary to the provisions of this code,
the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and
any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the
Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(14)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 151.29 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure constructed after
the adoption of this code shall be issued unless such building or structure was
constructed in compliance with the provisions of this code. It shall be
unlawful to occupy any such building or structure unless a full, partial or
temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building
Commissioner.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(15)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.30 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be preformed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(16)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.31 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the town or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this code.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(17)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.32 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal any order of the Building
Commissioner first through the town and then to the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission of the state in accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(18)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 151.33 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the town, bring actions in
the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county, for mandatory and injunctive
relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders
made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this code.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(19)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
151.15 through
151.33, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to preform any
duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of this code for
each such violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or corporation shall
be fined not more than $100. Each say of such unlawful activity as is
prohibited by the first sentence of this section shall constitute a separate
offense.
(1983 Code, § 36-7-9-1(20)) (Ord. 86-18, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 90-10, passed
11-12-1990)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
Section
   
152.01   General information
   
152.02   Statement of purpose
   
152.03   Applicability
   
152.04   Classifications of planned unit developments
   
152.05   Procedure
   
152.06   Abandonment or expiration
   
152.07   Recording
   
152.08   Permit
   
152.09   Covenants and maintenance; financial guarantees
   
152.10   Limitation on rezoning
§ 152.01 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   The Planned Unit Development District is intended to provide more
development flexibility than is possible through the application of customary
zoning regulations. In recognition of both the rapid changes in design and
technology in the building industry and new demands in the business and housing
markets, it is deemed necessary to meet those changes in a manner that will be
consistent with the best interests of the entire town.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 152.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Planned Unit Development District shall be the following:
   (A)   To encourage a more creative approach in land and building site
planning;
   (B)   To encourage an efficient, aesthetic and desirable use of open space;
   (C)   To promote variety in the physical development pattern of the
community, including mixed use development;
   (D)   To achieve flexibility and incentives for residential development
which will produce a wider range of choice in satisfying the changing urban
needs, including cluster development;
   (E)   To encourage renewal of older areas where new development and
restoration are needed to revitalize the areas;
   (F)   To permit special consideration of property with unique features, such
as historical significance, unusual topography, landscape amenities and size
and shape;
   (G)   To recapture by-passed land so poorly planned and developed as to be a
public liability; and
   (H)   To simplify processing of development proposals for developers and the
Plan Commission by providing for concurrent review of land use, subdivisions,
public improvements and siting considerations.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 152.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall apply to a tract of land of at
least five acres in area within the corporate limits of the town. These
provisions may apply to a proposed development in which the primary or entire
use is business or enclosed industrial use when the proposal is deemed to be in
the best interests of the entire town.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply only to proposed new
developments and shall not apply to any planned unit development plan which is
now fully or partially developed, nor to any such development for which a final
authorization has been granted pursuant to a previous ordinance; however, a
petitioner may, upon application and approval of the Plan Commission, become
subject to all the benefits and burdens of this section, subject to such rights
as shall have been vested in the owners of the area affected by development
under such ordinance.
   (C)   Any single use or combination of uses may be permitted in a planned
unit development, provided that the proposed planned unit development does not
conflict with the town’s Comprehensive Plan, Master Plan, Zoning Code or
subdivision control ordinance.
   (D)   The basic land unit of a planned unit development is the block,
parcel, tract, combination of lots or acreage, and not the lot; however,
divisible geographic sections of the entire planned unit development may be
designated.
      (1)   A proposed planned unit development shall be designed to produce an
environment of stable and desirable character in keeping with the principles of
good neighborhood design, and shall provide standards of open space, efficiency
in street patterns, and areas for parking adequate for the occupancy proposed,
or equal to the requirements of this code.
      (2)   Before approval of a preliminary planned unit development, a
detailed determination of land use intensity shall be declared, and the Plan
Commission shall make a finding that the intensity is consistent with the
comprehensive development plan of current adoption and in the best interest of
the entire town.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 152.04 CLASSIFICATIONS OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Upon preliminary review of a planned unit development plan, such plan
shall be identified by the general character of the dominant use of the
development.
   (B)   Such plans shall be classified by the following designations.
      (1)   PUD-R; Planned Unit Development, Residential. Any development
consisting of not less than five acres in which more than 80% of the interior
floor area of all buildings to be included in the development is to be used for
residential purposes or those accessory purposes customarily related to
residential use.
      (2)   PUD-B; Planned Unit Development, Business. Any development
consisting of not less than five acres in which all of the interior floor area
of all buildings to be included in the development is to be used for business
purposes.
      (3)   PUD-I; Planned Unit Development, Industrial. Any development
consisting of not less than five acres in which more than 80% of the interior
floor area of all buildings to be included in the development are used for
industrial or manufacturing purposes or such accessory uses customarily
relating to industrial uses with the balance of such interior floor area, if
any, being intended for such commercial uses as reasonably related to the
support or convenience of the intended industrial uses or their occupants.
      (4)   PUD-REC; Planned Unit Development, Recreation. Any development
consisting of not less than five acres in which the principal activity, whether
conducted within or outside of a building or other structures, relates to
recreation, amusement, the exhibition of sports events, the conduct of games
and athletics, or the provision of open space for any passive or active
endeavor. In these districts, such commercial structures or uses as reasonably
relate to the principal activity of the development shall also be permitted.
      (5)   PUD-M; Planned Unit Development, Mixed. A development not otherwise
distinguishable under any previous classification, containing less than the
minimum land area and/or less than the stated minimum proportions of any single
dominant use or function, and in which the proposed uses of interior and
exterior spaces require unusual design flexibility to achieve a completely
logical and complementary conjunction of uses and functions.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 152.05 PROCEDURE.
   The authorization of a planned unit development shall be subject to the
procedures expressed as follows.
   (A)   Upon a petition of the owners of property of 50% or more of the area
involved in the petition, or upon a petition initiated by the Plan Commission,
a preliminary plan for any area proposed for development as a planned unit
development shall be first presented to the Plan Commission’s designated staff;
at this presentation, three copies of a preliminary plan of the proposed
development, containing the following information, shall be submitted for
advice:
      (1)   Boundaries of the tract to be developed as part of the planned unit
development;
      (2)   Base mapping of the property showing the physical features, general
topography, drainageways, water bodies, tree cover and existing land uses;
      (3)   Highways and streets in the vicinity of the tract, and the ingress
and egress to the tract;
      (4)   Location of different general land use areas proposed to be
developed;
      (5)   Proposed density levels of each residential area;
      (6)   Proposed square footage of commercial or industrial areas;
      (7)   An enumeration of covenants, in general terms, proposed to be made
a part of the unit development plan;
      (8)   A statement expressing the order and estimated time of development,
if the planned unit development is to be developed in stages, or if
construction is to extend beyond a one-year time frame;
      (9)   Proposed treatment of existing topography, drainageways and tree
cover;
      (10)   Proposed general location of major vehicular circulation, showing
how this circulation pattern relates to the official Thoroughfare Plan of the
town;
      (11)   Location of schools, parks and other community facility sites, if
any; and
      (12)   Time schedule of projected development, if the total landholding
is to be developed in stages, or if construction is to extend beyond a one-year
period.
   (B)   Within 15 days after the presentation, the Technical Advisory
Committee of the Plan Commission shall consult with the petitioner regarding
the preliminary plan. After the consultation, the petitioner may make
modifications to the petition which are deemed appropriate.
   (C)   Application for approval of the planned unit development shall then be
submitted to the Plan Commission with a recommendation from the Technical
Advisory Committee of the Plan Commission, accompanied by six copies of the
preliminary plan (with modifications, if any) and any other desired supporting
documents at a regular meeting of the Plan Commission, as a petition for
amendment of the Zoning Code and subject to the procedures applicable thereto.
The Plan Commission may approve the plan submitted, amend and approve the plan
as amended or disapprove the plan. The Plan Commission may impose any
reasonable conditions upon its approval, including the recording of covenants.
If approved, the preliminary plan with amendments, if any, shall be stamped
“approved preliminary planned unit development”, and be signed by the President
and Secretary of the Plan Commission and one copy shall be permanently retained
in the office of the Plan Commission. The approved preliminary planned unit
development plan shall then be certified to the Town Council for adoption as a
“PUD” Planned Unit Development District pursuant to the laws governing
amendments of the Zoning Code.
   (D)   Upon adoption by the Town Council, the Planned Unit Development Plan
shall be returned to the Plan Commission, which shall thereafter exercise
continuing jurisdiction.
      (1)   Before any development takes place, the Commission shall approve a
detailed site plan specifying the exact location, composition, and general
engineering features of all lots, drainage, sewage, water supply facilities,
recreational facilities, site perimeter treatment and other pertinent site
development features, including general locations and features of proposed
buildings. The approval shall be conditional upon finding by the Plan
Commission that the detailed site plan is consistent with the approved
preliminary planned unit development plan.
      (2)   The approved detailed site plan shall be stamped “approved detailed
planned unit development plan” and be signed by the President and Secretary of
the Plan Commission, and one copy shall be permanently retained in the office
of the Plan Commission.
         (a)   The approval of the preliminary PUD shall be for two years, one
year if not regulated, after its adoption by the Common Council. Within this
two-year period, the planned unit development shall receive approval of the
final detailed site plan for the first section or the entire development.
Should the planned development not receive approval of the detailed site plan
for one section or the entire development within the two years, the Plan
Commission may initiate a rezoning of the property or extend the approval
period. The approval of the detailed site plan for each section of the
preliminary PUD shall extend the approval length of the preliminary PUD for two
years.
         (b)   An APPROVED DETAILED PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT may mean and be
designated the same as a final plat and approval of the final plat shall in all
instances precede final plat approval for record in accordance with Chapter
153.
         (c)   A refusal by the Plan Commission to approve a detailed site plan
shall not be construed as a denial, and any such refusal shall not operate as a
limitation on the right of the petitioner to continue to seek approval, nor
shall it impair the right of the petitioner to obtain an extension of time for
approval. In the event that approval of a detailed site plan is not obtained
within the one-year period or an approved extension of time, the Plan
Commission shall initiate an amendment of the Zoning Code so that the land will
be zoned into the category or categories it held before being reclassified as a
UD District.
   (E)   The Plan Commission may allow the petitioner to develop the property
involved in phases. If the phasing is permitted, the Commission may allow the
petitioner to submit partial detailed site plans which correspond to the phases
involved. The partial detailed site plans, when approved, shall be treated in
the same manner as approved detailed site plans for an entire planned unit
development.
   (F)   Where a platting, replatting or vacation of streets within all or a
portion of the land involved is contemplated, the Commission shall handle such
matters in accordance with its regular procedures in accordance with law.
   (G)   No construction or installation work shall be done on any public
improvement until satisfactory plans and specifications therefor have been
submitted to the Plan Commission in accordance with Chapter 153 and the
petitioner has, at least 24 hours in advance, notified the Plan Commission of
his or her intention to begin such work in order that inspections may be made
as the work progresses.
   (H)   In the exercise of its continual jurisdiction, the Plan Commission may
from time to time modify the approved detailed planned unit development in a
manner consistent with the approved preliminary planned unit development to
allow for changed circumstances and conditions unforeseen at the time of
original approval.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to approve minor
modifications that do not:
         (a)   Alter the basic relationship of the proposed development to
adjacent property;
         (b)   Change the uses permitted;
         (c)   Increase the maximum density floor area or height by more than
15%;
         (d)   Decrease the amount of off-street parking;
         (e)   Reduce the minimum yards or setbacks by more than 15%;
         (f)   Alter site ingress or egress in any way or create a substantial
change to on-site circulation, as determined by the Town Street Commissioner
and/or Town Engineer; or
         (g)   Upon submission of a request for a minor modification, the
director shall have ten working days to respond to the petitioner, by either
approving or rejecting the request. An applicant may appeal the decision of the
director to the Plan Commission.
      (2)   All development shall be in conformity with the approved detailed
planned unit development and in the exercise of its continuing jurisdiction,
the Plan Commission shall take cognizance of any material deviations from the
approved detailed planned unit development and take appropriate enforcement
action.
   (I)   Approval by the Plan Commission shall expire after a period of five
years from the approval of a detailed planned unit development unless the
development is 50% completed in term of public improvements, including parks,
walkways and utility installations in which instance an extension of time may
be granted by the Plan Commission not to exceed five successive periods of two
years each.
   (J)   All proceedings brought under this chapter shall be subject to the
rules of procedure of the Plan Commission, where not inconsistent with the
procedure otherwise stated herein, except that notice by publication shall be
sufficient notice for proceedings related solely to approval and modification
of detailed planned unit developments.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 152.06 ABANDONMENT OR EXPIRATION.
   Upon the abandonment of a development authorized under this chapter
(abandonment shall be deemed to have occurred when no improvements have been
made pursuant to the approved detailed planned unit development for 24
consecutive months, or upon the expiration of five years from the approval by
the Plan Commission of a detailed planned unit development for a development
which has not been completed or the expiration of an extension granted by the
Plan Commission), the Plan Commission shall initiate an amendment to this
chapter so that the land will be zoned into a category or categories which most
nearly approximates its then existing use or such other zoning category which
it deems appropriate.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 152.07 RECORDING.
   An approved detailed planned unit development and modifications thereof
shall be recorded in the appropriate books in the offices of the County
Recorder within six months after approval by the Plan Commission or the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 152.08 PERMIT.
   No improvement location permit shall be issued for a PUD District by the
Plan Commission unless all recording required by §
152.07 has been effected, and no certificate of zoning compliance shall be
issued for a PUD District unless the approved detailed planned unit development
plan with modifications, if any, is adhered to, all in compliance with the
purposes of this chapter and Chapter 153.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 152.09 COVENANTS AND MAINTENANCE; FINANCIAL GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Covenants shall be required by the Plan Commission as an ingredient
for stability and longevity of the planned unit development, and shall set
forth in detail provisions for the ownership and maintenance of facilities held
in common so as to reasonably ensure their continuity and conservation. The
covenant provisions shall include specific remedies in the event facilities
held in common are permitted to deteriorate or are not maintained in a
condition consistent with the best interests of the town, in which event the
town shall take those remedial steps provided for in the provisions.
   (B)   The Plan Commission may require the recording of covenants for any
reasonable public or semipublic purpose, including, but not limited to, the
allocation of land by the petitioner for public thoroughfares, parks, schools,
recreational facilities and other public and semipublic purposes wherever
necessary in conformity with the land use plan of current adoption. Such
covenants shall provide that if a governmental unit or agency thereof does not
proceed with acquisition of the allocated land within the specified period of
time, the covenants shall automatically terminate. If such termination occurs,
the petitioner shall then submit for approval by the Plan Commission a modified
detailed site plan for such land consistent with the approved preliminary
planned unit development. Such modified detailed site plans, when approved,
shall be treated in the same manner as approved detailed site plans for an
entire planned unit development.
   (C)   The Plan Commission may require the recording of covenants for any
other reasonable purpose, including, but not limited to, imposing standards for
development of property in a planned unit development; the development
standards may include, but are not limited to, requirements as to the
following:
      (1)   Lot area;
      (2)   Floor area;
      (3)   Ratios of floor space to land area;
      (4)   Area in which structures may be built (buildable area), including
areas for cluster type residential development without lot lines;
      (5)   Open space;
      (6)   Setback lines and minimum yards;
      (7)   Building separations;
      (8)   Height of structures;
      (9)   Signs;
      (10)   Off-street parking and loading and unloading areas;
      (11)   Design standards; and
      (12)   Phasing of development.
   (D)   The petitioner shall provide financial assurance for the satisfactory
installation of all public facilities in the form of bonds or such other
assurances as are required in the normal procedures of platting pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 153.
   (E)   Adequate provision shall be made for a private organization with data
responsibility to and control by the property owners involved to provide for
the operation and maintenance of all common facilities, including private
streets jointly shared by such property owners if the facilities are a part of
the planned unit development and in which instance, legal assurance shall be
provided which shows that the private organization is self-perpetuating and
adequately funded to accomplish its purposes.
   (F)   Common facilities which are not dedicated to the public shall be
maintained to standards assuring continuous and adequate maintenance at a
reasonable and nondiscriminatory rate of charge to the beneficiaries thereof.
Common facilities not dedicated to the public shall be operated and maintained
at no expense to any governmental unit.
   (G)   All private streets shall be maintained by the aforesaid private
organization in such a manner that adequate access is provided at all time to
vehicular traffic, so that fire, police, health, sanitation and public utility
vehicles can serve the properties contiguous or adjacent thereto, and so that
the vehicles will have adequate turning area. Private streets shall be
developed in accordance with the standards set forth in Chapter 153.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 152.10 LIMITATION ON REZONING.
   The Town Plan Commission shall not initiate any amendments to Chapter 153
concerning the property involved in the planned unit development before
completion of the development, as long as development is in conformity with the
approved detailed unit development plan and proceeding in accordance with the
time requirements imposed in division (D) above.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-10-2003)
CHAPTER 153: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Unified Development Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   REZONING
      
IV.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
77-2  5-16-  Annexes land beginning at a point on the west line of the east half of the
      1977   northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 6 East
             Annexes land beginning 132 feet north of the southwest corner of the west
1986- - -    half of the southeast quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, and land
10    1986   beginning at a point on the west line of the southeast quarter of Section
             2, Township 17 North
1986- 2-5-   Annexes land beginning at the southwest corner of Lot 2 of the Second
3     1986   Addition to the town
1986- 2-5-   Annexes the north half of the northeast quarter of Section 36, Township 18
4     1986   North, Range 6 East and the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
             Section 25, Township 18 North, Range 8 East
1986- 3-11-  Annexes land beginning at the northwest corner of Lot 30, Highland Home
6     1986   Addition
1986- 4-8-   Annexes land beginning at the intersection of the north right-of-way line
7     1986   of State Road 67 and the centerline of Lick Creek
1986- 5-13-  Annexes land beginning at the northeast corner of the southwest quarter of
12    1986   Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 7 East, thence south
1986- 5-13-  Annexes land beginning at the intersection of the west line of Section 31,
13    1986   Township 18 North, Range 7 East and the south right- of-way line of State
             Road 67
1986- 5-13-  Annexes land beginning at the southeast corner of the Southwest Quarter of
14    1986   Section 36, Township 18 North, Range 6 East; thence west 64.5 feet
1986- 6-10-  Annexes land beginning at the intersection of the centerline of County Road
22    1986   750 West and south right-of-way line of State Road 67, thence southwesterly
             along the right-of- way line of State Road 67
1988- 8-15-  De-annexes land beginning at the intersection of the centerline of County
4-2   1988   Road 750 West and the north right-of- way line of Pendleton Avenue
1990- 7-28-  De-annexes land; ordinances not recorded, so passed same legislation as
5     1990   Ord. 1988-4-2
1990- 10-10- De-annexes land beginning at the intersection of the centerline of County
6     1990   Road 650 West and the south line of Section 25, Township 18 North, Range 6
             East; and land beginning at the intersection of the east line of Section 36
1991- 6-24-  Annexes land beginning at the northeast corner of Lot 58 in the Second
4     1991   Addition
1994- 5-16-  Annexes all that portion of Ingalls Land Company’s Second Addition to the
2     1994   town
1994- 7-18-  Annexes a part of the northeast quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North,
3     1994   Range 6 East, and land beginning at a point on the west line of the
             northeast quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 6 East
1999- - -    Annexes Lots 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39, as well as the platted streets
2     1999   situated between Lots 34 and 35 and situated just northeast of Lot 39
2003- 3-31-  Annexes real estate, three tracts of land, made a part of Ingalls Town
1     2003   Council District No. 1
2003- 10-20- Annexes contiguous land beginning at a point on the south line of the
7     2003   southwest quarter of the southwest quarter
2004- 1-10-  Annexes land beginning at a point on the south line of the southwest
10    2005   quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 6
             East
2004- 3-28-  Annexes lands beginning at the northeast corner of the southwest quarter of
9     2005   Section 2, Township 17 North
2004- 10-17- Annexes all that part of the southeast quarter of Section 36, Township 18
14    2005   North, Range 6 East
2005- 10-17- Annexes real estate commencing at the southeast corner of the southeast
2     2005   quarter of Section 35, Township 18 North
2005- 3-27-  Annexes real estate commencing at the northwest corner of the northeast
9     2006   quarter of Section 25, Township 18 North, Range 6 East
2006- 1-8-   Annexes a part of the south half of Section 21, and part of the southeast
8     2007   quarter of Section 21, and part of the southeast quarter of Section 21, and
             part of the south half of Section 21
2011- 10-11- Annexes land commencing at a stone marking the southwest corner of said
11    2011   southeast quarter
            
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 2000-6   6-12-2000   Cable television franchise, Time Warner Inc. and AOL
                         
 
TABLE III: REZONING
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1992-9        12-14-1992  Rezones land from Mobile Home Park to Residential
2003-2        5-22-2003   Rezones land to PUD-R
                         
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Vacates a portion of Pine Street, a portion of Fifth
1990-11       11-12-1990  Avenue and a portion of an alleyway located in the
                          town
                          Vacates certain unused public ways, including
1992-3        7-13-1992   portions of Manifold Street, Randall Street, Jones
                          Street, Second Avenue, First Avenue, Fifth Avenue,
                          Willow Street, Washington Avenue
1995-2        3-20-1995   Vacates easement, being a portion of Lots 611 and 612
1997-9        10-20-1997  Vacates certain alleys in the town
1997-10       11-19-1997  Vacates a portion of Fifth Avenue
1998-10       11-23-1998  Vacates an alley that lies south of Pendleton Pike
                          and north of Sixth Avenue
1998-11       11-23-1998  Vacates portion of Randall Street
1998-13       12-14-1998  Vacates a portion of Huston Street
Res. 2007-2   6-14-1999   Vacates a north- south alleyway
2001-3        8-27-2001   Vacates an alley which lies south of CSX railway
2004-8        7-26-2004   Vacates alley which extends in a northerly direction
                          and lies east of Manifold Street
2005-4        5-23-2005   Vacates an alley which lies between Meridian Street
                          and Randall Street
2006-11       8-14-2006   Vacates Second Avenue west of Huston Street
1997-11       11-21-2006  Vacates a public street, beginning at the
                          southeasterly corner of Lot 42
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1983 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section               Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.12
1-1-1-8                    10.05
1-1-4-5                    10.05
1-1-5-1                    10.11
1-1-6-1                    10.08,
                           30.01
1-1-10-1                   30.02
4-21.5-3-7                 151.32
4-22-2                     91.09
5-3-1                      34.07
5-11-10 et seq.            34.03
5-13-5 et seq.             34.03
5-13-5-5                   34.03
5-22                       34.06
5-22-8-2                   34.07
5-22-10-1 et seq.          34.07
5-22-10-10                 34.07
6-9-39-1 et seq.           90.02
7.1-3-9-3                  111.01
8-1-2-103                  52.12
8-1.5-3-4(d)               50.15
8-1.5-3-4(e)               50.15
8-1.5-3.5                  52.12
8-1.5-5                    31.03
8-1.5-5-4                  31.03
8-1.5-5-5                  31.03
9-4-1-28                   Ch. 71, Sch. I
9-4-1-93                   70.01
9-4-1-125                  Ch. 71, Sch. III
9-13-2-41                  72.01
9-13-2-69.7                72.01
9-21-3-3                   72.03
9-21-9-5                   72.06
9-25-2-3                   72.01
14-32                      Ch. 51, Appendix A
14-34                      51.065,
                           51.080
15-2.1-6-11                90.05
15-15-1 et seq.            50.35
22-9-1-4                   91.02
22-9-1-10                  32.03
22-9.5-1 et seq.           91.01
22-9.5-2-2                 91.02
22-9.5-2-3                 91.02
22-9.5-2-4                 91.02
22-9.5-2-8                 91.02
22-9.5-2-9                 91.02
22-9.5-2-11                91.02
22-9.5-2-13                91.02
22-9.5-3                   91.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.           91.09
22-9.5-4-8                 91.10
22-9.5-5                   91.02
22-9.5-6                   91.02,
                           91.10
22-12-1-3                  151.01
22-13-2-7                  151.32
22-13-2-7(b)               151.17
22-15-3-1                  151.20
22-15-4                    151.18
22-15-4 et seq.            150.03
26-2-7                  52.14
31-37-3 et seq.            130.99
32-24                      95.06
33-24                      34.04
33-36-2-1 et seq.          35.01
33-36-2-3                  35.01
34-24-3                    52.14
35-31.5-2-29               90.01
35-31.5-2-292              90.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-8-11                  34.03
36-1-10.5                  34.04
36-1-20.2                  32.04
36-1-21                    32.04
36-4-6-11                  32.04
36-5-2-5                   32.20
36-5-2-9.4                 32.04
36-5-3-2                   32.01
36-5-4 et seq.             34.03
36-5-4-1                   34.01
36-7                       34.04
36-7-9                     151.01
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 151.01
36-7-9-2                   151.01
36-7-9-4                   151.01
36-7-9-14                  151.01
36-7-9-28                  151.01
36-7-14                    31.02
36-7-14-6.1                31.02
36-8-4.5-5                 32.23
36-9                       34.04
36-9-15.5                  34.23
36-9-16-3                  34.22
36-9-23                    34.27
36-9-27-54                 51.083
36-9-27-67                 Ch. 51, Appendix A
36-10                      34.04
36-10-3                    31.01
36-10-3-1                  92.01
36-10-3-1 et seq.          92.01
36-10-3-10(2)              92.02
36-10-3-36                 92.03
                           
 
REFERENCES TO 1983 CODE
1983 Code Section 2020 Code Section
1983 Code Section 2020 Code Section
1-1-6-1           30.01
1-1-10-1          30.02
7.1-3-9-3         111.01
9-3-1-3           34.02
9-4-1-28          Ch. 71, Sch. I
9-4-1-93          70.01
9-4-1-125         Ch. 71, Sch. III
                  93.40,
13-1-1-10         93.41,
                  93.99
22-9-1-10         32.03
31-6-4-2(a)       130.01
31-6-4-2(b)       130.02
31-6-4-2(c)       130.03
31-6-4-2(d)       130.99
36-5-2-5          32.20
36-5-3-2          32.01
36-5-4-1          34.01
36-7-4-1106       150.03,
                  150.99
36-7-9-1(1)       151.15
36-7-9-1(2)       151.16
36-7-9-1(3)       151.17
36-7-9-1(4)       151.18
36-7-9-1(5)       151.19
36-7-9-1(6)       151.20
36-7-9-1(7)       151.21
36-7-9-1(8)       151.22
36-7-9-1(9)       151.23
36-7-9-1(10)      151.24
36-7-9-1(11)      151.25
36-7-9-1(12)      151.26
36-7-9-1(13)      151.27
36-7-9-1(14)      151.28
36-7-9-1(15)      151.29
36-7-9-1(16)      151.30
36-7-9-1(17)      151.31
36-7-9-1(18)      151.32
36-7-9-1(19)      151.33
36-7-9-1(20)      151.99
36-9-2-1          34.25
36-9-2-1(a)       50.03
36-9-2-1(f)       50.06
36-9-2-1(g)       50.07
36-9-2-1(h)       50.08
36-9-2-1(i)       50.09
36-9-2-1(k)       50.11
36-9-16-3         34.22
36-10-3-1         92.01
36-10-3-10        92.02,
                  92.99
36-10-3-36        92.03
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2007-2   6-14-1999   TSO, Table IV
2000-6   6-12-2000   TSO, Table II
2012-1   1-3-2012    31.04
2012-2   6-25-2012   32.04
2012-3   8-27-2012   33.02
2012-4   8-27-2012   34.26
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         50.30 -
                     50.38
–      - -         153.01
91-5     - -         32.20
2011B    - -         Ch. 71, Sch. I
2011-9   - -         Ch. 71, Sch. I
2012-1   - -         Ch. 71, Sch. I
2012-4   - -         Ch. 71, Sch. I
032315A  - -         34.03
22       6-21-1951   Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      12-15-1961  32.01
–      12-2-1968   111.01
–      9-2-1969    Ch. 71, Sch. III
–      11-18-1972  Ch. 71, Sch. I
73-1     12-18-1972  Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      8-20-1973   Ch. 71, Sch. III
75-6     6-16-1975   92.01
75-8     9-15-1975   92.03
77-2     5-16-1977   TSO, Table I
80-3     5-3-1980    92.02
80-3     5-3-1980    92.99
80-4     10-4-1980   32.01
                     93.40,
80-5     1-3-1981    93.41,
                     93.99
75-7     5-2-1981    70.01
81-1     10-10-1981  32.01
81-2     10-10-1981  Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      11-7-1981   Ch. 71, Sch. I
                     93.40,
–      11-7-1981   93.41,
                     93.99
81-4     1-9-1982    32.01
75-8     5-1-1982    92.01
1986-10  - -1986     TSO, Table I
1986-3   2-5-1986    TSO, Table I
1986-4   2-5-1986    TSO, Table I
1986-6   3-11-1986   TSO, Table I
1986-7   4-8-1986    TSO, Table I
                     151.15 -
86-18    4-21-1986   151.33,
                     151.99
1986-12  5-13-1986   TSO, Table I
1986-13  5-13-1986   TSO, Table I
1986-14  5-13-1986   TSO, Table I
1986-22  6-10-1986   TSO, Table I
1988-4-2 8-15-1988   TSO, Table I
88-8     9-12-1988   Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      12-12-1988  Ch. 71, Sch. III
88-15    12-12-1988  32.01
89-9     9-11-1989   Ch. 71, Sch. I
1990-5   7-28-1990   TSO, Table I
1990-6   10-10-1990  TSO, Table I
90-9     11-12-1990  34.25
                     151.15 -
90-10    11-12-1990  151.33,
                     151.99
1990-11  11-12-1990  TSO, Table IV
1991-4   6-24-1991   TSO, Table I
1992-3   7-13-1992   TSO, Table IV
1992-6   12-4-1992   32.22
1992-9   12-14-1992  TSO, Table III
1993-1   4-12-1993   150.03
1993-3   6-14-1993   32.21
94-1     3-21-1994   151.01
1994-2   5-16-1994   TSO, Table I
1994-3   7-18-1994   TSO, Table I
1995-2   3-20-1995   TSO, Table IV
1996-2   3-11-1996   34.20
1996-3   7-22-1996   32.05
1997-4   1-27-1997   Ch. 71, Sch. I
1997-9   10-20-1997  TSO, Table IV
1997-10  11-19-1997  TSO, Table IV
1998-1   1-12-1998   Ch. 71, Sch. I
1998-3   3-23-1998   91.01 -
                     91.10
1998-4   3-23-1998   34.21
1998-5   3-23-1998   95.01 -
                     95.04
                     94.01 -
1998-7   7-13-1998   94.06,
                     94.99
98-12    11-23-1998  34.06
1998-10  11-23-1998  TSO, Table IV
1998-11  11-23-1998  TSO, Table IV
1998-13  12-14-1998  TSO, Table IV
1998-15  12-28-1998  33.01
1999-2   - -1999     TSO, Table I
1999-1   3-8-1999    Ch. 71, Sch. I
1999-3   5-10-1999   Ch. 71, Sch. I
1999-6   9-27-1999   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2000-1   2-15-2000   112.01
2000-3   5-8-2000    150.03
2000-6   8-28-2000   130.01,
                     130.99
2000-9   9-11-2000   32.01
2000-8   10-16-2000  32.01
2000-10  10-16-2000  113.01,
                     113.02
2001-3   8-27-2001   TSO, Table IV
2003-2   3-10-2003   152.01 -
                     152.10
2003-1   3-31-2003   TSO, Table I
2003-2   5-22-2003   TSO, Table III
2003-7   10-20-2003  TSO, Table I
2003-8   10-20-2003  151.23 
2003-9   12-15-2003  34.02
2004-3   1-26-2004   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2004-1   2-9-2004    31.01
2004-05  5-24-2004   50.14
2004-6   7-26-2004   31.03
2004-7   7-26-2004   110.01 -
                     110.04
2004-8   7-26-2004   TSO, Table IV
2004-11  10-18-2004  150.03
2004-13  12-20-2004  34.24
2004-10  1-10-2005   TSO, Table I
2004-9   3-28-2005   TSO, Table I
2005-4   5-23-2005   TSO, Table IV
2005-3   6-14-2005   151.22
2005-8   9-26-2005   50.13
2004-14  10-17-2005  TSO, Table I
2005-2   10-17-2005  TSO, Table I
2005-11  1-23-2006   150.01
2005-12  1-23-2006   150.02
2005-9   3-27-2006   TSO, Table I
2006-11  8-14-2006   TSO, Table IV
2006-10  9-11-2006   151.21
1997-11  11-21-2006  TSO, Table IV
2006-8   1-8-2007    TSO, Table I
2007-7   11-29-2007  151.23
2008-3   5-27-2008   31.02
2008-7   11-17-2008  34.04
2009-2   1-12-2009   34.05
2009-04  6-8-2009    Ch. 71, Sch. I
2009-03  7-27-2009   34.23
                     35.01,
2011-12  - -2011     35.02,
                     35.03
–      3-10-2011   50.15
2011-2   4-15-2011   Ch. 71, Sch. II
2010-3   7-19-2011   34.25
2011-4   7-19-2011   50.08
2011-11  10-11-2011  TSO, Table I
2012-2   - -2012     50.02
2012-5   11-26-2012  32.02
2013-2   3-11-2013   32.06
                     93.01 -
                     93.07,
2014-1   - -2014     93.20 -
                     93.27,
                     93.99
030915   3-23-2015   36.01 -
                     36.14
032315B  4-13-2015   34.07
041315   4-13-2015   32.02
042715B  6-8-2015    Ch. 71, Sch. II
042715A  7-27-2015   Ch. 71, Sch. I
082415   8-24-2015   34.07
082415A  8-24-2015   110.05,
                     110.99
111615A  11-16-2015  34.27
050916A  5-25-2016   34.08
052316   6-13-2016   34.09
062716   6-27-2016   34.29
072516   8-8-2016    Ch. 71, Sch. I
082216   8-22-2016   32.35 -
                     32.44
082216   9-12-2016   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
–      12-26-2016  32.08
–      4-24-2017   32.23 
101617   10-16-2017  151.02
103017   10-30-2017  Ch. 71, Sch. IV
103017B  10-30-2017  Ch. 71, Sch. I
121817A  12-18-2017  Ch. 71, Sch. IV
031218   3-26-2018   34.23
040918   4-9-2018    Ch. 71, Sch. I
040918A  4-9-2018    92.04,
                     92.99
042318   5-14-2018   93.07
091018   9-24-2018   34.28
032320   3-23-2020   34.04
                     72.01 -
–      9-14-2020   72.09,
                     72.99
011121   1-11-2021   73.01
030821   3-8-2021    95.05
032221   3-22-2021   73.01
032221A  4-12-2021   95.06
–      4-26-2021   52.01 -
                     52.15
                     51.001 -
                     51.011,
                     51.025 -
                     51.031,
                     51.045 -
                     51.051,
                     51.065 -
                     51.068,
–      12-20-2021  51.080 -
                     51.084,
                     51.095 -
                     51.103,
                     51.115 -
                     51.120,
                     51.999,
                     Ch. 51, Appendix A,
                     Ch. 51, Appendix B
                    
 
