TOWN OF JAMESTOWN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Legislation current through local Ordinance legislation 2024-07, passed 7-2-
2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Jamestown Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. The Counties of Boone and Hendricks, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The Townships of Jackson and Eel River, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published and subsequently amended, the previous code
section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, Title __,
Article __, Ch. __, § __ ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
   (B)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Wherever, in this code, or in any ordinance in of the town, or rule or
regulation promulgated by an officer or agency thereof under the authority
invested by law or ordinance, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful or an offense, or the act is declared to be unlawful, where no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code, ordinance, rule, or regulation shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $1,000. Every day any violation of this code or any such ordinance,
rule, or regulation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. In any
prosecution based upon this section, it shall be necessary to allege only the
first day with respect to which any forfeiture is assessable and, upon
conviction, the offender shall be assessed for that day and each day subsequent
thereto with respect to which it is proven and found that the person did commit
such violation.
(Prior Code, Title A1, Ch. 1, § 10)
   (B)   In all cases where the same offenses may be made punishable or may be
created by different clauses or sections of the ordinances of the town, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense.
(Prior Code, Title A1, Ch. 1, § 11)
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau; schedule of fines, see §
33.07
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNMENTAL STRUCTURE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
31.   TOWN POLICIES
      
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
34.   FINANCE
      
35.   INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNMENTAL STRUCTURE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
30.01   Organization
   
30.02   Executive branch
   
30.03   Legislative branch
   
30.04   Fiscal branch
   
30.05   Statutory boards and commissions
   
30.06   Existing boards and commissions
   
30.07   Special meetings
§ 30.01 ORGANIZATION.
   The government of the town shall consist of four branches, those being:
   (A)   Executive branch;
   (B)   Legislative branch;
   (C)   Fiscal branch; and
   (D)   Statutory boards and commissions.
(Prior Code, Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-5-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see I.C. 36-5-2-2
§ 30.02 EXECUTIVE BRANCH.
   The executive branch, under the direction of a President of the Town
Council, shall be organized as follows.
   (A)   The Council President is the town executive and head of the executive
branch. He or she shall faithfully perform the duties and responsibilities
contained in Indiana Code and other statutes of the state.
   (B)   The Council President shall have control of the day-to-day operations
of the following executive departments which are hereby established:
      (1)   Police Department;
      (2)   Fire Department. The Fire Department is organized on a volunteer
basis with the members and officers elected subject to Town Council approval;
      (3)   Street Department; and
      (4)   Sanitation Department.
   (C)   There is hereby established a Department of Law pursuant to I.C. 36-4-
9-12.
   (D)   The Chief of the Police Department, and the head of the Street and
Sanitation Department, are appointed by the Town Council.
   (E)   Subject to the appropriation power of the Town Council, the foregoing
Departments shall have the ability to hire such employees, and purchase or
contract for such materials or services, as the Town Council or, in its
absence, the President of the Town Council deems necessary.
(Prior Code, Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2)
§ 30.03 LEGISLATIVE BRANCH.
   (A)   The legislative branch shall be under the Town Council. The Council
shall have the exclusive authority to adopt ordinances and appropriate tax
monies received by the town, and to perform other necessary and desirable
legislative functions.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the clerk of the Town Council, and shall
perform the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-4-6-9.
   (C)   The regular meeting date and time for the Town Council shall be at 7:
00 p.m. on the first Tuesday of each month.
   (D)   The Council President or, in his or her absence, the acting President
of the Council shall be the presiding officer of Council, and meetings shall be
conducted pursuant to the applicable statutes and in accordance with the
following rules which are hereby adopted as a part of this chapter.
      (1)   Order of business. The order of business to be followed at a
meeting of the Town Council shall be as hereinafter set out; provided, however,
the order of business may be changed or suspended at the direction of the
presiding officer with the consent of a majority of the members of the Council
present:
         (a)   Calling to order;
         (b)   Roll call by Clerk-Treasurer;
         (c)   Reading of minutes and approval;
         (d)   Petitions or comments of citizens;
         (e)   Reports from committees, boards, and commissions;
         (f)   Unfinished business, including ordinances and/or resolutions
already introduced;
         (g)   New business, including introduction of ordinances and
resolutions;
         (h)   Miscellaneous business, including any matters not already
considered; and
         (i)   Adjournment.
      (2)   Contempt and disorder in the Boardroom. No person shall use violent
or contemptuous language, behave in a disorderly manner, or refuse to obey the
orders of the presiding officer in the Boardroom while the Town Council is in
session. The presiding officer may order the removal from the Boardroom of
anyone who intentionally disturbs the decorum of a Council member.
      (3)   Introduction and adoption of ordinances and resolutions.
         (a)   All ordinances shall be regularly filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
at least one day before a regular meeting.
         (b)   All ordinances shall be read two times before being passed, and
no ordinance shall pass on the same day in which it is introduced unless the
provisions of I.C. 36-4-6-13 are complied with.
         (c)   Resolutions shall be subject to the same rule in method of
introduction and adoption as ordinances.
         (d)   On the passage or adoption of any ordinance or resolution the
yeas and nays shall be taken and entered in the record, and the ordinance shall
be processed in accordance with I.C. 36-4-6-14 through 17.
      (4)   Questions of order. The presiding officer shall decide all
questions of order. He or she shall decide whether any question submitted to
the Council for adoption or rejection is decided in the affirmative or
negative.
      (5)   Appeal from decision of presiding officer. From any decision of the
presiding officer, any member may appeal to the Council. The appeal shall be by
motion duly made and seconded. A majority vote as defined in I.C. 36-4-6-11(a)
is necessary to overrule the presiding officer.
      (6)   Suspension of rules. The order of business may be suspended by a
two-thirds vote of the members of the Council.
      (7)   Town Council members and Clerk-Treasurer; elections. The terms for
the elected offices for the town shall be as follows.
         (a)   The Town Council shall consist of three members.
            1.   The one member, Council 2, elected to the Town Council in
2023, shall serve a four-year term beginning on January 1, 2024. The one
member, Council 1, appointed in 2023, shall serve a four-year term beginning on
January 1, 2024.
            2.   The two members, Council 4 and Council 5, appointed to the
Town Council in 2022, shall serve a two-year term beginning January 1, 2023. At
the end of the initial two-year term, these two seats shall be placed on the
ballot in 2024, and every four years thereafter, for a four-year term.
         (b)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected in 2023 and shall
serve a four-year term beginning on January 1, 2024. At the end of the initial
four-year term, the office of Clerk-Treasurer shall be placed on the ballot in
2027, and every four years thereafter, for a four-year term.
         (c)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-3, the Boone County Election Board shall
conduct elections for the town. The Clerk-Treasurer and the President of the
Town Council are authorized to take all action necessary to transfer authority
to conduct elections to the county.
         (d)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a signed copy of the
ordinance from which this division (G) is derived to the Circuit Court Clerk of
Boone County, and shall request the Clerk to include a copy of said ordinance
in the records of the Boone County Election Board.
(Prior Code, Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. 2002-2, passed 6-4-2002;
Ord. 2012-4, passed 12-4-2012; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-6-2020; Ord. 2022-15,
passed 12-6-2022; Ord. 2022-16, passed 12-6-2022; Ord. 2023-15, passed 11-14-
2023; Ord. 2023-16, passed - -2023)
§ 30.04 FISCAL BRANCH.
   The fiscal branch shall operate under the authority of the Clerk-Treasurer
and be organized as follows.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is the fiscal officer of the town and the head of
the fiscal branch. He or she shall perform the duties assigned by I.C. 36-5-6-
6.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized, pursuant to I.C. 36-4-11-4,
to appoint one deputy Clerk-Treasurer to be paid from funds from the town
utility. Such deputy shall work under the exclusive direction of the Clerk-
Treasurer, and serves at the pleasure of the Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall, if authorized by the Town Council, appoint such additional
deputy Clerk-Treasurers as are necessary to carry out the duties of the office.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish space within his or her office for
the administration and records of the town utilities. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
be compensated for services he or she renders to the town’s utilities.
   (D)   The Council now authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to pay the following
pre-approved claims in advance, to-wit:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds, i.e., bank loans;
      (10)   Payroll; and
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes.
(Prior Code, Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. 92-2, passed 8-4-1992)
§ 30.05 STATUTORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   The town shall have the following statutory boards and commissions as may be
established hereafter by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 6)
§ 30.06 EXISTING BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   The boards and commissions of the town, now organized and operating,
shall continue in operation with the same members and terms of office.
   (B)   These boards and commissions are as follows:
      (1)   Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (2)   Plan Commission;
      (3)   Town Redevelopment Commission; and
      (4)   Town Municipal Park Board.
(Prior Code, Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 7) (Ord. 99-1, passed 3-2-1999)
§ 30.07 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Town Council may be called by the President of the
Town Council and/or the Clerk-Treasurer. Notice of said special meeting shall
be made pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-5 or any amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 8) (Ord. 2000-7, passed 9-5-2000)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
31.01   Municipal buildings
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to possess deadly weapons or alcoholic beverages inside
the Town Municipal Building.
(Prior Code, Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 9)
   (B)   All of town municipal property, including all buildings and vehicles,
are now declared both smoke-free and tobacco-free.
(Prior Code, Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 10)
(Ord. 2001-2, passed 6-5-2001; Ord. 2001-3, passed 6-5-2001; Ord. 2010-5,
passed 3-2-2010) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violators of §
31.01(A) are subject to maximum fines of $500 and possible arrest.
(Prior Code, Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 9) (Ord. 2001-2, passed 6-5-2001)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Fire Department
   
32.01   Fire watch
Police Department
   
32.15   Reserve police officers
   
32.16   Deputy Marshal
Department of Redevelopment
   
32.30   Department established
   
32.31   Taxing district
   
32.32   Organization
   
32.33   Terms of office; election of officers
   
32.34   Duties and powers
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 FIRE WATCH.
   A $40 per hour fee for fire watch services shall be charged to the person or
entity requiring such services and shall be payable to the fire personnel
performing the fire watch service.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 3)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointment of police officers. The Town Council, on recommendation of
the Town Marshal, may appoint up to 12 reserve police officers to serve in the
town.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 2)
   (B)   Rules and powers. The reserve police officers shall abide by the rules
established by the Town Council and/or Town Marshal.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 3)
   (C)   Duty time. Police reserves shall be directed by the Town Marshal and
shall be assigned duty time as the needs of the town may require.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 4)
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 32.16 DEPUTY MARSHAL.
   (A)   Authority. Whereas the Town Council, for the town, has determined a
need for a full-time Deputy Marshal, beginning January 1, 1999.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 1)
(Res. 98-12, passed 12-28-1998; Ord. 2016-4, passed 6-7-2016)
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT
§ 32.30 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The Town Council now deems it to be in the best interest of the town and its
citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for rehabilitation, redevelopment, or
economic development of areas by private enterprise and the town by
establishing a Department of Redevelopment. The Town Council hereby establishes
a Department of Redevelopment controlled by a board of five commissioners to be
known as the “Jamestown Redevelopment Commission.”
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 32.31 TAXING DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to the Act, being described in Indiana Code, all of the territory
within the corporate boundaries of the town will be a taxing district for the
purpose of levying and collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment
purposes as provided in the Act. The Town Council finds and determines that all
of the taxable property within this special taxing district is considered to be
benefitted by the redevelopment projects carried out under the Act to the
extent of the special taxes levied under the Act.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 32.32 ORGANIZATION.
   The Town Redevelopment Commission shall consist of five Commissioners and
one non-voting advisor appointed as follows.
   (A)   Three Commissioners shall be appointed by the President of the Town
Council.
   (B)   Two Commissioners shall be appointed by the Town Council.
   (C)   Each Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age.
   (D)   Each Commissioner must be a resident of the town.
   (E)   The Town Council President shall also appoint an individual to serve
as a non-voting advisor to the Town Redevelopment Commission, who must also be
a member of the school board or a school corporation that includes all or part
of the territory served by the Town Redevelopment Commission.
   (F)   A Commissioner or a non-voting advisor appointed under the Act may not
have a pecuniary interest in any contract, employment, purchase, or sale made
by the Commission in exercise of its powers. However, any property required for
redevelopment purposes in which a Commissioner or non-voting advisor has a
pecuniary interest may be acquired, but only by gift or condemnation.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 32.33 TERMS OF OFFICE; ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The term of office of the Town Redevelopment Commission shall be as follows.
   (A)   A member is entitled to serve a term as provided by I.C. 36-7-14-7.
The term of office of the original Commissioners of the Town Redevelopment
Commission shall commence from the date of their appointment until January 1,
2017.
   (B)   If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be appointed in the same manner
as the original Commissioner, and the successor shall serve for the remainder
of the vacated term.
   (C)   The Town Council President or Town Council that appointed the
Redevelopment Commissioner may summarily remove that Commissioner from office
at any time.
   (D)   The Redevelopment Commissioners shall hold a meeting for the purpose
of organization not later than 30 days after they are appointed and, after
that, each year on the first day in January that is not a Saturday or Sunday or
a legal holiday. They shall choose one of their members as President, another
as Vice President, and another as Secretary. These offices shall perform the
duties usually pertaining to their offices and shall serve from the date of
their election until their successors are elected and qualified.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 32.34 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The duties and powers of the Town Redevelopment Commission are as stipulated
in the Act, as amended.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-3-2015)
CHAPTER 33: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
33.01   Creation
   
33.02   Violations Clerk
   
33.03   Duties of Violations Clerk
   
33.04   Violation; right to trial
   
33.05   Request for trial
   
33.06   Prosecution
   
33.07   Schedule
§ 33.01 CREATION.
   There shall be created an Ordinance Violations Bureau, pursuant to I.C. 33-
36-2-1 et seq., as amended and as currently located at I.C. 33-36-2-1, for the
town.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 8-4-2009; Ord. 2022-06, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 33.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the Violations
Clerk who administers the Bureau.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 10, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. 2009-7, passed 8-4-2009)
§ 33.03 DUTIES OF VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   The Clerk-Treasurer and his or her staff, as his or her agents, shall accept
written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations, and payment of
civil penalties in the amount and for the violation provided in §
33.07.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 10, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. 2009-7, passed 8-4-2009)
§ 33.04 VIOLATION; RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon
an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount
prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties set forth in §
33.07. In addition to the fine, the individual may be subject to court costs.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 8-4-2009; Ord. 2022-06, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 33.05 REQUEST FOR TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk within 30 days of the notice of
violation.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 8-4-2009; Ord. 2022-06, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 33.06 PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
within 30 days after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter within 60
days of the date of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Proceedings in court of proper jurisdiction against the person may
then be initiated for the alleged ordinance violation.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 2022-06, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 33.07 SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following schedule of ordinances (hereinafter “Ord.”) and town
code provisions shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Ordinance
Violations Bureau and the first violations within a calendar year of said
ordinances and code provisions shall be subject to civil penalty set forth:
Offense First Violation Second Violation Third Violation
Offense               First Violation Second Violation Third Violation
Burning of pavement   $200            $300             $400
Dogs running at large $50             $75              $100
Junk vehicles         $200            $400             $600*
Keeping livestock     $200            $300             $400
Littering             $200            $300             $400
Open burning          $200            $300             $400
Parking violations    $50             $75              $100
Rubbish               $300            $500             $700*
Note to table:
*   The above stated violation penalties are in addition to the cost of
removal/mowing incurred by the town.
 
   (B)   Notwithstanding the schedule of civil penalties, no part of this
chapter shall be construed to prohibit the town from seeking the greater
penalties provided for by any applicable ordinance when proceeding in a court
of proper jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 6-7-2022)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Electronic fund transfers and online banking
   
34.02   Handling of returned checks
   
34.03   Investment policy
   
34.04   Federal policies; procurement and cost principals
Purchasing Policy
   
34.15   Invitation for bids
   
34.16   Request for proposals
   
34.17   Request for specifications
   
34.18   Electronic notices
   
34.19   Receiving offers
   
34.20   Small purchases
   
34.21   Designated purchasing agents, limitations
   
34.22   Purchases not specifically authorized
   
34.23   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
34.24   Protection of offers; status of documents
   
34.25   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals
   
34.26   Delay of opening of offers
   
34.27   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
34.28   Modification and termination of contracts
   
34.29   Purchasing agency
   
34.30   Advance payments
Cross-reference :
   General penalty, see §
10.99
   Internal Control Standards, see
Chapter 35
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Chapter 33
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments, and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
(Prior Code, Title 4, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 1)
   (B)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT) including online transfers. The Town
Council authorizes the use of online transfers for the purpose of transferring
funds to the Accounts Payable Checking Account from the General, Electric,
Water, and Sewer Checking Accounts in the process of paying claims/invoices.
(Prior Code, Title 4, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2)
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the transactions referenced in divisions (A) and (B) above for
future audits, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Title 4, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 3)
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 8-1-2017)
§ 34.02 HANDLING OF RETURNED CHECKS.
   (A)   Charge. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby directed to charge
the sum of $35 for each customer check returned to his or her office by the
bank.
(Prior Code, Title 6, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 1)
   (B)   Redeeming. The customer shall pay only in cash, or certified check or
money order, when redeeming any such check.
(Prior Code, Title 6, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 2)
§ 34.03 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The investment policy attached and incorporated by reference as
Exhibit A of the ordinance from which this section is derived is hereby
adopted.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to implement and oversee
the town investment policy as the investing officer.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 34.04 FEDERAL POLICIES; PROCUREMENT AND COST PRINCIPALS.
   (A) Federal procurement policy.
      (1)   Establishment.
         (a)   Procurement of all supplies, materials, equipment, and services
paid from federal funds or school community matching funds shall be made in
accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local statutes and/or
regulations, the terms and conditions of the federal grant, and school
community policies and administrative procedures.
         (b)   The town shall have and use a procurement and contract
administration system in accordance with the USDOE requirements (2 C.F.R. §§
200.317 through 200.326), including affirmative steps for small and minority
businesses and women’s business enterprises, for the administration and
management of federal grants and federally funded programs. The town shall
maintain oversight that requires contractors to perform in accordance with the
terms, conditions, and specifications of their contracts or purchase orders.
Except as otherwise noted, procurement transactions shall conform to the
provisions of the town’s documented general procurement Policy 6320 and AG
6320A.
         (c)   All federally funded contracts in excess of $2,000 related to
construction, alteration, repairs, painting, decorating, and the like of public
buildings or public works must comply with Davis-Bacon and related acts
prevailing wage requirements. All town employees, officers (e.g., town
members), and agents who have procurement authority shall abide by the
standards of conduct covering conflicts of interest and governing the actions
of its employees, officers, and agents engaged in the selection, award, and
administration of contracts as established in Policy 1130, Policy 3113, and
Policy 4113, “Conflict of Interest.”
         (d)   The town shall avoid the acquisition of unnecessary or
duplicative items. Additionally, consideration shall be given to consolidating
or breaking out procurements to obtain a more economical purchase. And, where
appropriate, an analysis shall be made of lease versus purchase alternatives
and any other appropriate analysis to determine the most economical approach.
These considerations are given as part of the process to determine the
allowability of each purchase made with federal funds.
         (e)   To foster greater economy and efficiency, the town may enter
into state and local intergovernmental agreements, where appropriate, for
procurement or use of common or shared goods and services.
      (2)   Competition.
         (a)   All procurement transactions for the acquisition of property or
services required under a federal award paid for from federal funds or town
matching funds shall be conducted in a manner that encourages full and open
competition and is in accordance with good administrative practice and sound
business judgment. In order to promote objective contractor performance and
eliminate unfair competitive advantage, the town shall exclude any contractor
that has developed or drafted specifications, requirements, statements of work,
or invitations for bids or requests for proposals from competition for such
procurements.
         (b)   Some of the situations considered to be restrictive of
competition include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Unreasonable requirements on firms in order for them to
qualify to do business;
            2.   Unnecessary experience and excessive bonding requirements;
            3.   Non-competitive pricing practices between firms or between
affiliated companies;
            4.   Non-competitive contracts to consultants that are on retainer
contracts;
            5.   Organizational conflicts of interest;
            6.   Specification of only a “brand name” product instead of
allowing for an “or equal” product to be offered and describing the performance
or other relevant requirements of the procurement; and
            7.   Any arbitrary action in the procurement process.
         (c)   Further, the town shall not use statutorily or administratively
imposed state, local, or tribal geographical preferences in the evaluation of
bids or proposals unless:
            1.   An applicable federal statute expressly mandates or encourages
a geographic preference; or
            2.   The town is contracting for architectural and engineering
services, in which case geographic location may be a selection criterion
provided its application leaves an appropriate number of qualified firms, given
the nature and size of the project, to compete for the contract.
         (d)   To the extent that the town uses a pre-qualified list of
persons, firms, or products to acquire goods and services that are subject to
policy, the pre-qualified list includes enough qualified sources to ensure
maximum open and free competition. The town allows vendors to apply for
consideration to be placed on the list following a request for proposals
(RFP’s).
         (e)   The town shall require that all prequalified lists of persons,
firms, or products which are used in acquiring goods and services are current
and include enough qualified sources to provide maximum open and free
competition. The town shall not preclude potential bidders from qualifying
during the solicitation period.
      (3)   Solicitation language (procurement procedures).
         (a)   The town shall have written procurement procedures that require
that all solicitations made pursuant to this policy incorporate a clear and
accurate description of the technical requirements for the material, product,
or service to be procured. Such description shall not, in competitive
procurements, contain features which unduly restrict competition. The
description may include a statement of the qualitative nature of the material,
product, or service to be procured and, when necessary, shall set forth those
minimum essential characteristics and standards to which it shall conform if it
is to satisfy its intended use. Detailed product specifications should be
avoided if at all possible.
         (b)   When it is impractical or uneconomical to make a clear and
accurate description of the technical requirements, a “brand name or
equivalent” description may be used as a means to define the performance or
other salient requirements of procurement. The specific features of the named
brand which shall be met by offers shall be clearly stated, and the
solicitation shall identify all requirements which the offerors shall fulfill
and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals.
         (c)   The town will not approve any expenditure for an unauthorized
purchase or contract.
      (4)   Procurement methods. The town shall have and use documented
procedures, consistent with the standards described above, for the following
methods of procurement:
         (a)   Informal procurement methods. When the value of the procurement
for property or services under a federal award does not exceed the simplified
acquisition threshold or a lower threshold established by the state, formal
procurement methods are not required. The town may use informal procurement
methods to expedite the completion of its transactions and minimize the
associated administrative burden and cost. The informal methods used for
procurement of property or services at or below the simplified acquisition
threshold include:
            1.   Micro-purchases. Procurement by micro-purchase is the
acquisition of supplies or services, the aggregate dollar amount of which does
not exceed $10,000. To the maximum extent practicable, the town should
distribute micro-purchases equitably among qualified suppliers. Micro-purchases
may be made without soliciting competitive quotations if the procurement agent
identified in Policy 6320 considers the price to be reasonable based on
research, experience, purchase history, or other relevant information and
documents are filed accordingly. The town shall maintain evidence of this
reasonableness in the records of all purchases made by this method; and
            2.   Small purchases. Small purchases include the acquisition of
property or services, the aggregate dollar amount of which is higher than the
micropurchase threshold, but does not exceed the simplified acquisition
threshold of $250,000. Small purchase procedures require price or rate
quotations shall be obtained from an adequate number of qualified sources. The
town is responsible for determining an appropriate simplified acquisition
threshold based on internal controls, an evaluation of risk, and its documented
procurement procedures which must not exceed the threshold established in the
Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR). When applicable, a lower simplified
acquisition threshold used by the non-Federal entity must be authorized or not
prohibited under state, local, or tribal laws or regulations.
      (b)   Formal procurement methods. When the value of the procurement for
property or services under a federal award exceeds the simplified acquisition
threshold, or a lower threshold established by the state, formal procurement
methods are required. Formal procurement methods require the following
documented procedures. Formal procurement methods also require public
advertising unless a non-competitive procurement method can be used in
accordance with the standards on competition in 200.319 or non-competitive
procurement. The formal methods of procurement are:
            1.   a.   Sealed bids. Sealed, competitive bids shall be obtained
when the purchase of, and contract for, single items of supplies, materials, or
equipment amounts to more than $250,000 and when the Town determines to build,
repair, enlarge, improve, or demolish a school building/facility the cost of
which will exceed the amount allowed by state statute. In order for sealed
bidding to be feasible, the following conditions shall be present:
                  i.   A complete, adequate, and realistic specification or
purchase description is available;
                  ii.   Two or more responsible bidders are willing and able to
compete effectively for the business; and
                  iii.   The procurement lends itself to a firm fixed-price
contract and the selection of the successful bidder can be made principally on
the basis of price.
               b.   When sealed bids are used, the following requirements
apply:
                  i.   Bids shall be solicited in accordance with the
provisions of State law and Policy 6320. Bids shall be solicited from an
adequate number of qualified suppliers, providing sufficient response time
prior to the date set for the opening of bids. The invitation to bid shall be
publicly advertised;
                  ii.   The invitation for bids shall include product/contract
specifications and pertinent attachments and shall define the items and/or
services required in order for the bidder to properly respond;
                  iii.   All bids shall be opened at the time and place
prescribed in the invitation for bids; bids shall be opened publicly;
                  iv.   A firm fixed-price contract award shall be made in
writing to the lowest responsible bidder. Where specified in bidding documents,
factors such as discounts, transportation cost, and life cycle costs shall be
considered in determining which bid is lowest. Payment discounts may be used to
determine the low bid only when prior experience indicates that such discounts
are usually taken; and
                  v.   The town reserves the right to reject any or all bids
for a sound documented reason.
            2.   Proposals. Procurement by proposals is a method in which
either a fixed price or cost-reimbursement type contract is awarded. Proposals
are generally used when conditions are not appropriate for the use of sealed
bids or in the case of a recognized exception to the sealed bid method. Indiana
law stipulates a threshold for which sealed bids are required. (See Policy
6320.)
               a.   If this method is used, the following requirements apply:
                  i.   Requests for proposals shall be publicized and identify
all evaluation factors and their relative importance. Any response to the
publicized requests for proposals shall be considered to the maximum extent
practical;
                  ii.   Proposals shall be solicited from an adequate number of
sources;
                  iii.   The town shall use its written method for conducting
technical evaluations of the proposals received and for selecting recipients;
and
                  iv.   Contracts shall be awarded to the responsible firm
whose proposal is most advantageous to the program, with price and other
factors considered.
               b.   The town may use competitive proposal procedures for
qualifications-base procurement   of architectural/engineering (A/E)
professional services whereby competitors’ qualifications are evaluated, and
the most qualified competitor is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and
reasonable compensation. The method, where price is not used as a selection
factor, can be used only in procurement of A/E professional services. It cannot
be used to purchase other types of services though A/E firms are a potential
source to perform the proposed effort.
            3.   Non-competitive procurement. Procurement by non-competitive
proposals allows for solicitation of a proposal from only one source and may be
used only when one or more of the following circumstances apply:
               a.   Micro-purchases;
               b.   The item is available only from a single source;
               c.   The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will
not permit a delay resulting from publicizing a competitive solicitation;
               d.   The federal awarding agency or pass-through entity
expressly authorizes non-competitive proposals in response to a written request
from the town; and
               e.   After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is
determined to be inadequate.
      (5)   Domestic preference for procurement. As appropriate and to the
extent consistent with law, the town shall, to the extent practicable under a
federal award, provide a preference for the purchase, acquisition, or use of
goods, products, or materials produced in the United States. Such requirements
shall be included in all subawards, including all contracts and purchase orders
for work or products under the federal award.
      (6)   Contract/price analysis.
         (a)   The Town shall perform a cost or price analysis in connection
with every procurement action in excess of $250,000, including contract
modifications. A COST ANALYSIS generally means evaluating the separate cost
elements that make up the total price, while a PRICE ANALYSIS means evaluating
the total price without looking at the individual cost elements.
         (b)   The method and degree of analysis is dependent on the facts
surrounding the particular procurement situation; however, the town shall come
to an independent estimate prior to receiving bids or proposals.
         (c)   When performing a cost analysis, the town shall negotiate profit
as a separate element of the price. To establish a fair and reasonable profit,
consideration is given to the complexity of the work to be performed, the risk
borne by the contractor, the contractor’s investment, the amount of
subcontracting, the quality of its record of past performance, and industry
profit rates in the surrounding geographical area for similar work.
      (7)   Time and materials contracts.
         (a)   The town uses a time and materials type contract only after a
determination that no other contract is suitable, and if the contract includes
a ceiling price that the contractor exceeds at its own risk. Time and materials
type contract means a contract whose cost to the town is the sum of the actual
costs of materials and direct labor hours charged at fixed hourly rates that
reflect wages, general and administrative expenses, and profit.
         (b)   Since this formula generates an open-ended contract price, a
time-and-materials contract provides no positive profit incentive to the
contractor for cost control or labor efficiency. Therefore, the town sets a
ceiling price for each contract that the contractor exceeds at its own risk.
Further, the town should assert a high degree of oversight in order to obtain
reasonable assurance that the contractor is using efficient methods and
effective cost controls.
      (8)   Suspension and debarment.
         (a)   The town shall award contracts only to responsible contractors
possessing the ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions
of the proposed procurement. All procurement decisions shall be made in the
best interests of the town and shall seek to obtain the maximum value for each
dollar expended.
         (b)   When making a procurement decision, the town shall consider such
factors as:
            1.   Contractor integrity;
            2.   Compliance with public policy;
            3.   Record of past performance; and
            4.   Financial and technical resources.
         (c)   1.   The town shall have the authority to suspend or debar a
person/contractor, for cause, from consideration or award of further contracts.
            2. The town is subject to and shall abide by the no procurement
debarment and suspension regulations implementing Executive Orders 12549 and
12689, 2 C.F.R. pt. 180.
         (d)   Suspension is an action taken by the town that immediately
prohibits a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions
covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 C.F.R Ch. 1) for a
temporary period, pending completion of an agency investigation and any
judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A person so excluded is
suspended.
(2 C.F.R. pt. 180, subpt. G)
         (e)   Debarment is an action taken by the town to exclude a person
from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the
Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 C.F.R. Chapter I). A person so excluded is
debarred.
(2 C.F.R. pt. 180, subpt. H)
         (f)   The town shall not subcontract with or award subgrants to any
person or company who is debarred or suspended. For contracts over $25,000, the
town shall confirm that the vendor is not debarred or suspended by either
checking the federal government’s System for Award Management, which maintains
a list of such debarred or suspended vendors at www.sam.gov; collecting a
certification from the vendor; or adding a clause or condition to the covered
transaction with that vendor.
(2 C.F.R. pt. 180, subpt. C)
      (9)   Bid protest.
         (a)   The town maintains the following protest procedures to handle
and resolve disputes relating to procurements and, in all instances, discloses
information regarding the protest to the awarding agency.
         (b)   A bidder who wishes to file a bid protest shall file such notice
and follow procedures prescribed by the request for proposals (RFPs) or the
individual bid specifications package for resolution. Bid protests shall be
filed in writing with the town within 72 hours of the opening of the bids in
protest.
         (c)   Within five days of receipt of a protest, the town shall review
the protest as submitted and render a decision regarding the merits of the
protest and any impact on the acceptance and rejection of bids submitted.
Notice of the filing of a bid protest shall be communicated to the town and
shall be noted in any subsequent recommendation for the acceptance of bids and
awarding of contracts.
         (d)   Failure to file a notice of intent to protest or failure to file
a formal written protest within the time prescribed shall constitute a waiver
of proceedings.
      (10)   Maintenance of procurement records. The town shall maintain
records sufficient to detail the history of all procurements. These records
shall include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: rationale for
the method of procurement, selection of contract type, contractor selection or
rejection, and the basis for the contract price (including a cost or price
analysis).
   (B)   Federal cost principals policy.
      (1)   Cost principals; spending federal funds. The town is responsible
for the efficient and effective administration of grant funds through the
application of sound management practices. Such funds shall be administered in
a manner consistent with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, the
associated agreements/assurances program objectives, and the specific terms and
conditions of the grant award.
      (2)   Cost principles. Except where otherwise authorized by statute,
costs shall meet the following general criteria in order to be allowable under
federal awards:
         (a)   1.   Be necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient
performance and administration of the federal award and be allocable thereto
under these principles. To determine whether a cost is reasonable,
consideration shall be given to:
               a.   Whether a cost is a type generally recognized as ordinary
and necessary for the operation of the school community or the proper and
efficient performance of the federal award;
               b.   The restraints or requirements imposed by such factors as
sound business practices, arm’s length bargaining, federal, state, local,
tribal, and other laws and regulations;
               c.   Market prices for comparable goods or services for the
geographic area;
               d.   Whether the individuals concerned acted with prudence in
the circumstances considering their responsibilities; and
               e.   Whether the cost represents any significant deviation from
the established practices or school community policy which justifiably may
increase the expense.
            2.   While federal regulations do not provide specific descriptions
of what satisfies the “necessary” element beyond its inclusion in the
reasonableness analysis above, whether a cost is necessary is determined based
on the needs of the program. Specifically, the expenditure must be necessary to
achieve an important program objective. A key aspect in determining whether a
cost is necessary is whether the town can demonstrate that the cost addresses
an existing need, and can prove it.
            3.   When determining whether a cost is necessary, consideration
may be given to whether:
               a.   The cost is needed for the proper and efficient performance
of the grant program;
               b.   The cost is identified in the approved budget or
application;
               c.   There is an educational benefit associated with the cost;
               d.   The cost aligns with identified needs based on results and
findings from a needs assessment; and
               e.   The cost addresses program goals and objectives and is
based on program data.
         (b)   A cost is allocable to the federal award if the goods or
services involved are chargeable or assignable to the federal award in
accordance with the relative benefit received. This standard is met if the
cost:
            1.   Is incurred specifically for the federal award;
            2.   Benefits both the federal award and other work of the town and
can be distributed in proportions that may be approximated using reasonable
methods; and
            3.   Is necessary to the overall operation of the town and is
assignable to the federal award in accordance with cost principles mentioned
here.
         (c)   Conform to any limitations or exclusions set forth in the cost
principles in Part 200 or in the terms and conditions of the federal award,
including prohibitions regarding costs incurred for telecommunications and
video surveillance services or equipment;
         (d)   Be consistent with policies and procedures that apply uniformly
to both federally financed and other activities of the town;
         (e)   Be accorded consistent treatment. A cost cannot be assigned to a
federal award as a direct cost if any other cost incurred for the same purpose
in like circumstances has been allocated to a federal award as an indirect cost
under another award;
         (f)   Be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
         (g)   Be representative of actual cost, net of all applicable credits
or offsets. The term APPLICABLE CREDITS refers to those receipts or reductions
of expenditures that operate to offset or reduce expense items allocable to the
federal award. Typical examples of such transactions are purchase discounts;
rebates or allowances; recoveries or indemnities on losses; and adjustments of
overpayments or erroneous charges. To the extent that such credits accruing to
or received by the state relate to the federal award, they shall be credited to
the federal award, either as a cost reduction or a cash refund, as appropriate.
         (h)   Not be included as a match or cost-share, unless the specific
federal program authorizes federal costs to be treated as such;
         (i)   Be adequately documented:
            1.   In the case of personal services, the town shall implement a
system for town personnel to account for time and efforts expended on grant-
funded programs to assure that only permissible personnel expenses are
allocated; and
            2.   In the case of other costs, all receipts and other invoice
materials shall be retained, along with any documentation identifying the need
and purpose for such expenditure if not otherwise clear.
         (j)   Be incurred during the approved budget period. The budget period
means the time interval from the start date of a funded portion of an award to
the end date of that funded portion during which recipients are authorized to
carry out authorized work and expend the funds awarded, including any funds
carried forward or other revisions pursuant to the law. Prior written approval
from the federal awarding agency or state pass-through entity may be required
to carry forward unobligated balances
to subsequent budget periods unless waived.
      (3)   Selected items of cost.
         (a)   The town shall follow the rules for selected items of cost at 2
C.F.R. pt. 200, subpt. E, when charging these specific expenditures to a
federal grant. When applicable, town staff shall check costs against the
selected items of cost requirements to ensure the cost is allowable. In
addition, state, town and program-specific rules, including the terms and
conditions of the award, may deem a cost as unallowable, and town personnel
shall follow those rules as well.
         (b)   The following rules of allowability must apply to equipment and
other capital expenditures.
            1.   Capital expenditures for general purpose equipment, buildings,
and land are unallowable as direct charges, except with the prior written
approval of the federal awarding agency or pass-through entity.
            2.   Capital expenditures for special purpose equipment are
allowable as direct costs, provided that items with a unit cost of $5,000 or
more have the prior written approval of the federal awarding agency or pass-
through entity.
            3.   Capital expenditures for improvements to land, buildings, or
equipment which materially increase their value or useful life are unallowable
as a direct cost except with the prior written approval of the federal awarding
agency, or pass-through entity.
            4.   All federally funded contracts in excess of $2,000 related to
construction, alteration, repairs, painting, decorating, and the like must
comply with Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements.
            5.   Allowability of depreciation on buildings, capital
improvements, and equipment shall be in accordance with 2 CFR § 200.436 and 2
CFR § 200.465.
            6.   When approved as a direct cost by the federal awarding agency
or pass-through entity under divisions (B)(3)(b)1. through (B)(3)(b)3. above,
capital expenditures will be charged in the period in which the expenditure is
incurred, or as otherwise determined appropriate and negotiated with the
federal awarding agency.
            7.   If the town is instructed by the federal awarding agency to
otherwise dispose of or transfer the equipment, the costs of such disposal or
transfer are allowable.
      (4)   Cost compliance. The town shall require that grant program funds
are expended and are accounted for consistent with the requirements of the
specific program and as identified in the grant application. Compliance
monitoring includes accounting for direct or indirect costs and reporting them
as permitted or required by each grant. Costs incurred for the same purpose in
like circumstances shall be treated consistently as either direct or indirect
costs, but may not be double charged or inconsistently charged as both.
      (5)   Determining whether a cost is direct or indirect.
         (a)   1.   Direct costs are those costs that can be identified
specifically with a particular final cost objective, such as a federal award,
or other internally or externally funded activity, or that can be directly
assigned to such activities relatively easily with a high degree of accuracy.
            2.   These costs may include salaries and fringe benefits of
employees working directly on a grant-funded project; purchased services
contracted for performance under the grant; travel of employees working
directly on a grant funded project; materials, supplies, and equipment
purchased for use on a specific grant; program evaluation costs or other
institutional service operations; and infrastructure costs directly
attributable to the program (such as long distance telephone calls specific to
the program, and the like). Direct costs may also include capital expenditures
if approved by the federal awarding agency or pass-through entity, as well as
capital expenditures for special purpose equipment with a unit cost of less
than $5,000.
         (b)   Indirect costs are those that have been incurred for a common or
joint purpose benefiting more than one cost objective and are not readily
assignable to the cost objectives specifically benefited without effort
disproportionate to the results achieved. Costs incurred for the same purpose
in like circumstances shall be treated consistently as either direct or
indirect costs.
            1.   These costs may include general data processing, human
resources, utility costs, maintenance, accounting, and the like.
            2.   Federal education programs with supplement not supplant
provisions must use a restricted indirect cost rate. In a restricted rate,
indirect costs are limited to general management costs. General management
costs do not include divisional administration that is limited to one component
of the town, the governing body of the town, compensation of the town,
compensation of the chief executive officer of any component of the town, and
operation of the immediate offices of these officers.
            3.   The salaries of administrative and clerical staff normally
should be treated as indirect costs. Direct charging of these costs may be
appropriate only if all of the following conditions are met:
               a.   Administrative or clerical services are integral to a
project or activity;
               b.   Individuals involved can be specifically identified with
the project or activity;
               c.   Such costs are explicitly included in the budget or have
the prior written approval of the federal awarding agency; and
               d.   The costs are not also recovered as indirect costs.
            4.   Where a federal program has a specific cap on the percentage
of administrative costs that may be charged to a grant, that cap shall include
all direct administrative charges as well as any recovered indirect charges.
            5.   Effort should be given to identify costs as direct costs
whenever practical, but allocation of indirect costs may be used where not
prohibited and where indirect cost allocation is approved ahead of time by the
State Department of Education (IDOE) or the pass-through entity (federal funds
subject to 2 C.F.R. pt. 200 pertaining to determining indirect cost
allocation).
            6.   Equipment and other capital expenditures are unallowable as
indirect costs.
      (6)   Timely obligation of funds. Financial obligations are orders placed
for property and services, contracts and sub-awards made, and similar
transactions that require payment.
         (a)   This term is used when referencing a recipient’s or
subrecipient’s use of funds under a federal award.
         (b)   The following list illustrates when funds are determined to be
obligated under the United States Department of Education regulations.
         (c)   If the obligation is for:
            1.   Acquisition of property on the date which the town makes a
binding written commitment to acquire the property;
            2.   Personal services by an employee of the town when the services
are performed;
            3.   Personal services by a contractor who is not an employee of
the town on the date which the town makes a binding written commitment to
obtain the services;
            4.   Performance of work other than personal services on the date
when the town makes a binding written commitment to obtain the work;
            5.   Public utility services when the town receives the services;
            6.   Travel, when the travel is taken;
            7.   Rental of property when the town uses the property; and
            8.   A pre-agreement cost that was properly approved by the
Secretary under the cost principles in 2 C.F.R. pt. 200, subpt. E, “Cost
Principles,” on the first day of the project period.
      (7)   Period of performance.
         (a)   1.   All financial obligations must occur during the period of
performance. Period of performance means the total estimated time interval
between the start of an initial federal award when the town is permitted to
carry out the work authorized by the grant and the planned end date. The period
of performance may include one or more funded portions or budget periods.
            2.   The period of performance is dictated by statute and will be
indicated in the grant award notification (“GAN”). As a general rule, state-
administered federal funds are available for obligation within the year that
Congress appropriates the funds for. However, given the unique nature of
educational institutions, for many federal education grants, the period of
performance is 27 months.
            3.   This maximum period includes a 15-month period of initial
availability, plus, a 12-month period for carryover. For direct grants, the
period of performance is generally identified in the GAN.
         (b)   In the case of a state-administered grant, financial obligations
under a grant may not be made until the application is approved or is in
substantially approvable form, whichever is later. In the case of a direct
grant, a grantee may use grant funds only for obligations it makes during the
grant period unless an agreement exists with the awarding agency or the pass-
through entity (e.g., State Department of Education) to reimburse for pre-
approval expenses.
         (c)   If a federal awarding agency or pass-through entity approves an
extension, or if the cooperative extends under C.F.R. § 200.308(e)(2), the
period of performance will be amended to end at the completion of the
extension. If a termination occurs, the period of performance will be amended
to end upon the effective date of termination. If a renewal is issued, a
distinct period of performance will begin.
         (d)   For both state-administered and direct grants, regardless of the
period of availability, the town shall liquidate all financial obligations
incurred under the award not later than 90 days after the end of the funding
period unless an extension is authorized. Any funds not obligated within the
period of performance or liquidated within the appropriate timeframe are said
to lapse and shall be returned to the awarding agency. Consequently, the town
shall closely monitor grant spending throughout the grant cycle.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 7-2-2024; Ord. 2024-08, passed 7-2-2024)
PURCHASING POLICY
§ 34.15 INVITATION FOR BIDS.
   (A)   All notices of invitation for bids shall be published in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Lebanon Reporter.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the bids will be
opened.
   (C)   The purchasing agency shall also post notice at the Town Hall and two
other places in the town.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 34.16 REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All notices of request for proposals shall be published in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Lebanon Reporter.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposals will be opened.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 34.17 REQUEST FOR SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All notices of request for specifications shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Lebanon Reporter.
   (B)   (1)   The purchasing agency shall schedule the publication of notice
to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals.
      (2)   The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart.
      (3)   The second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the
date the proposals will be opened.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 34.18 ELECTRONIC NOTICES.
   Whenever a notice or other materials, including specifications, an
invitation for bids, request for proposals, or request for specifications, is
sent by mail, the purchasing agency may also send the notice or other material
by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the information is at
least as efficient as mailing the information.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 34.19 RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening of offers.
      (1)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be opened
publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time and
place designated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must be
opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during
the process of negotiation.
      (3)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may
be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Electronic receipt of offers. The purchasing agency may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals or
request for specifications. An electronic offer may only receive an electronic
offer if:
      (1)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
      (2)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or other
system with a security feature that protects the contents of an electronic
offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (C)   Correction and withdrawal of bids.
      (1)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time
at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting
a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after
the time at which the bids were opened.
      (2)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which the bids were opened.
   (D)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town’s best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers; provided that, the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 34.20 SMALL PURCHASES.
   Subject to the approval of the purchasing agency, the purchasing agent may
purchase supplies with an estimated cost of less than $50,000 on the open
market without inviting or receiving quotes.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 34.21 DESIGNATED PURCHASING AGENTS, LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to any other requirement herein, each purchasing agent
shall comply with all laws of the state, as well as ordinances and rules of the
purchasing agency and the town with respect to any purchase. A purchasing agent
is not permitted to enter into separate purchases for the purpose of avoiding
the requirements and limitations set forth herein.
   (B)   The persons holding the following positions are hereby appointed as a
purchasing agent for the purchasing agency (i.e., the Town Council of the Town
of Jamestown, Indiana):
      (1)   Town Marshal;
      (2)   Town Clerk-Treasurer;
      (3)   Superintendent of Utilities
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the person holding the positions
named in division (B) above shall have authority to purchase services and
supplies, excluding vehicles and other capita] expenditures, for the town in
their respective departments without prior specific approval of the purchasing
agency (i.e., Town Council) if the estimated amount of the purchase is less
than $2,500 and is included in the approved budget for the office, as confirmed
by the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 34.22 PURCHASES NOT SPECIFICALLY AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Purchases with an estimated amount of greater than $2,500 shall be
presented to and shall require the specific approval of the Town Council as the
purchasing agency before a contract for purchase is entered into and the
purchasing agent shall comply with each rule, procedure, limitation, and
requirement of the Town Council as purchasing agency that is given when
authorizing a purchase in respect to such request.
   (B)   The purchasing agency (i.e., Town Council) may, at any time, further
modify or limit the authority of the above identified purchasing agents by
regular action of the Town Council without need of a resolution or ordinance,
and the purchasing agent shall comply with such modification or limitation.
   (C)   After a purchasing agent listed above makes such a purchase as
authorized herein without obtaining prior specific approval of the Town Council
as purchasing agency, the purchasing agent shall submit a report to the
purchasing agency (i.e., Town Council) for them to review and ratify, if
appropriate, at its next regularly scheduled council meeting.
   (D)   No one member of the purchasing agency is an approved purchasing
agent. Town Council approval is required for agency purchases.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 34.23 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town
purchases and shall be purchased unless the Town Council determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 98-8, passed 6-29-1998)
§ 34.24 PROTECTION OF OFFERS; STATUS OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The Clerk-Treasurer, as
purchasing agent under the Act, being I.C. Title 5, Article 22, shall retain
all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and time at which
offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents prior to
the opening of the offers.
   (B)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened, the
purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
   (C)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made available for public inspection and copying
after the time of the bid opening, unless the bid opening is delayed, as
authorized in this section or any other statute or ordinance.
   (D)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a register
of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
(Ord. 98-6, passed 6-29-1998)
§ 34.25 DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS RESPONDING TO A REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   The purchasing agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers
may be obtained from, responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to
be reasonably susceptible of bearing selected for a contract award.
(Ord. 98-6, passed 6-29-1998)
§ 34.26 DELAY OF OPENING OF OFFERS.
   (A)   When the Town Council makes a written determination that is in the
town’s best interest, offers may be opened after the time stated in the
solicitation.
   (B)   The date, time, and place of the rescheduled opening must be announced
at the time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
(Ord. 98-6, passed 6-29-1998)
§ 34.27 EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $25,000.
   (B)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility.
      (1)   If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable.
      (2)   If a bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of
the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a requirement
that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and must indicate
the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is
required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
(Ord. 98-6, passed 6-29-1998)
§ 34.28 MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Price adjustments. The Town Clerk-Treasurer, as purchasing agent, may
include provisions to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The
following provisions for price adjustments may be included:
      (1)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
      (2)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in the
contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (4)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
      (5)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments must
be computed by a unilateral determination by the town of the costs attributable
to the event or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee,
all as computed by the town in accordance with applicable ordinances adopted by
the town.
   (B)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
   (C)   Unilateral rights of the town. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the town, the
purchasing agent, or the President of the Town Council, to order changes in the
work within the scope of the contract or to order temporary work stoppage or
delays in time of performance.
   (D)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(Ord. 98-6, passed 6-29-1998)
§ 34.29 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Town Council is designated as the purchasing agency for the town.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be amended from time to time by law, or supplemented
from time to time by ordinances adopted by the Town Council, and policies
adopted by the purchasing agency.
   (C)   The purchasing agency shall act as purchasing agency for every agency,
board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, and department. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall be the purchasing agent of the town purchasing agency and may
designate in writing any employee of the town as a deputy purchasing agent.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 6-29-1998)
§ 34.30 ADVANCE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   A purchasing agent of the town, as defined and set forth in §§
34.15 through
34.22, may allow advance payment for a public works project and advance
payments for goods or services before the goods or services are delivered or
completed goods and services consistent with and to the fullest extent
permitted by law, and as further limited by the purchasing agent for the
purchase.
   (B)   The solicitation for a public works contract providing for advance
payments for contractors to purchase materials for public works projects under
I.C. 5-11-10-1.6 must include the following information:
      (1)   The town will make advance payments to contractors to enable
contractors to purchase materials;
      (2)   Any limitations on the amount of advance payments that will be
made;
      (3)   Requirements for documentation relating to making advance payments
to contractors for materials; and
      (4)   Any other information about advance payment for materials the town
considers useful to contractors that make offers.
   (C)   The Town Fiscal Officer or the Town Fiscal Officer’s designee must do
all of the following when advance payments are made for goods or services prior
to delivery of goods or completion of service:
      (1)   Track prepayments by defining the prepayment on a purchase order;
      (2)   Create a prepayment invoice that is associated with the purchase
order; and
      (3)   Require insurance or a surety bond in the amount of the prepayment
if the amount of the prepayment is more than $150,000.
   (D)   Advance payments made under divisions (A) and (B) above may not exceed
the lesser of the following:
      (1)   Fifty percent (50%) of the entire cost of the contract; or
      (2)   Two million dollars ($2,000,000).
   (E)   All other requirements for the payment of public works projects,
goods, and services by the town remain in effect and ordinances not directly
contradicted by the provisions of this section remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2023-17, passed 12-28-2023)
CHAPTER 35: INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
Section
   
35.01   Mission
   
35.02   Objectives
   
35.03   Adoption of standards
   
35.04   Review of standards
   
35.05   Personnel
   
35.06   Management
   
35.07   Cooperation
   
35.08   Implementation
   
35.09   Materiality threshold
§ 35.01 MISSION.
   The town finds that its mission as related to an internal control system is
as follows:
   (A)   Provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
   (B)   Provision of services as determined through the political process,
including, but not limited to, the police, fire, utilities, economic
development, parks, and the like;
   (C)   Promotion of government efficiency, accountability, reliability, and
transparency; and
   (D)   Promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, mismanagement, or errors.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 35.02 OBJECTIVES.
   The town finds that its interrelated and often overlapping objectives as
related to an internal control system are as follows:
   (A)   Operations objectives which involve the ways governmental services are
performed and the performance of those providing governmental services
including, by way of example, budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash
management, and planning among others;
   (B)   Reporting objectives which involve the filing of financial and
nonfinancial information to those inside the government and those outside of
the government including, by way of example, filing the annual report, audit
and examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms, and the
other filings with any governmental agency or official or information required
to be kept such as an OSHA log and responding to a public records request among
others; and
   (C)   Compliance objectives involve the adherence to law and regulations
including by way of example following guidance documents such as the State
Board of Accounts’ manuals, bulletins, directives, and the Department of Local
Government Finance’s forms and directions and including other outside of
government trainings and documents, such as IACT, among others.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 35.03 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system that
includes the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency as described in the most recent edition of the Uniform Internal
Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions guidance document from the
State Board of Accounts, and as thereafter modified:
      (1)   Control environment;
      (2)   Risk assessment;
      (3)   Control activities;
      (4)   Information and communication; and
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (B)   The town adopts and directs the following principles in explanation of
the pertinent standards in division (A) above be followed at all levels of the
town government.
      (1)   Control environment.
         (a)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values.
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the town’s internal control system.
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility, and delegates authority to achieve the town’s objectives.
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop, and
retain competent individuals.
         (e)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances.
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives.
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing, and responding to risks.
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities.
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks.
         (b)   Management designs the town’s information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks.
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication.
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town’s
objectives.
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring.
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (C)   The town adopts the internal control standards in division (B) above
so as to establish an effective internal control system for the town through
its design, implementation, and operation.
   (D)   The town directs that the standards in division (B) above be used to
design, implement, operate, and modify current operations, reporting, and
compliance objectives that will safeguard the assets of the town, promote
reliability, accountability, and transparency of financial and nonfinancial
information and to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office,
department, and personnel (as defined below) for an effective and reasonable
internal control system of the town.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 35.04 REVIEW OF STANDARDS.
   The town authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council to review the
current internal control system of the town and the Town Council to adopt a
policy for future internal control system to be effective after June 30, 2016,
and perform an annual review, or more, if determined necessary for compliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 35.05 PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The personnel, whether an official or employee, of the town whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, state,
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity shall
comply with these minimum internal control standards and procedures and any
other policy regarding standards and procedures determined necessary by the
town now and as modified in the future.
   (B)   The personnel of the town whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the minimum internal
control standards and procedures and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the town and shall cooperate with the town fiscal
officer or designee so that the fiscal officer can timely certify to the State
Board of Accounts that the training was received annually by the personnel as
provided by law.
   (C)   The town authorizes the Town Council and Clerk-Treasurer to determine
the position and person who are the personnel referred to in divisions (A) and
(B) above and notify such personnel.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 35.06 MANAGEMENT.
   The Town Council, as the legislative body, along with the Clerk-Treasurer
shall constitute MANAGEMENT as referred to herein and shall perform all the
internal controls system activities and duties as described herein and in the
policy to be adopted for the internal control system.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 35.07 COOPERATION.
   (A)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the town.
   (B)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance, and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation or and may result in the discipline,
including termination, of the employee.
   (C)   An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 35.08 IMPLEMENTATION.
   This chapter may be implemented by any and all of the following actions or
such others as authorized by this Council:
   (A)   Posting a copy of this chapter in its entirety in at least one of the
locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to its
employees;
   (B)   Providing a copy of this chapter to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
   (C)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this chapter; or
   (D)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the policies
established by this chapter to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 35.09 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   The town hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $750 for purposes of
internal control procedures.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-28-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   ELECTRIC
      
53.   WATER
      
54.   SEWER
      
55.   STORM WATER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITIES PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Department
   
50.02   Jurisdiction
   
50.03   Budget billing
   
50.04   Safety manual
§ 50.01 DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established a Utility Department for the town, under the
control of the Town Council. The Department will have jurisdiction of the
water, sewer, stormwater, and electrical utilities.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 1)
§ 50.02 JURISDICTION.
   The municipally owned utilities of the town are hereby taken out of the
jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state for rate making
purposes. The utilities removed being the municipal electric utility and the
municipal water utility.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2)
§ 50.03 BUDGET BILLING.
   (A)   The budget billing program is a voluntary program to give customers
the option of payment of their utility bills in equal monthly payments. The
program is available to residential users only. This program is not a means of
financial assistance.
   (B)   The following items outline the rules and regulations for the program.
      (1)   A signed application must be submitted and on file with the Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (2)   The customer must have at least 12 months’ billing history at his
or her present service address.
      (3)   All outstanding balances at any previous service address must be
paid in full to be eligible.
      (4)   The budget billing program applies to all billed utilities.
      (5)   The budget cycle is ongoing and is rebalanced annually.
      (6)   The budget amount will be calculated based on the prior 12-month
average. Reconciliation or rebalancing will occur annually. Any variances will
be rebalanced into the new budget amount at that time. Therefore, no refunds or
large lump payments will occur. Due to unforeseen circumstances, the town
utilities reserve the right to change the billing amount at any time and may
choose to rebalance semi-annually in the future.
      (7)   All monthly budget billings, including all utilities being provided
by the town, must be paid in full each month to remain in the program and if
not paid in full on or before the disconnect date of such month, shall be
subject to disconnection, with the entire balance becoming due and owed at such
time. Should a customer be disconnected or not pay any balance when due, they
will be dropped from the program and no longer be eligible to participate in
the program. The customer, at the discretion of the Clerk-Treasurer, may be re-
evaluated for participation after six months.
      (8)   Determination to accept applications shall initially be with the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. Should a customer dispute rejection, such customer, by
written notification, may appeal such determination to the Town Council.
Consideration and determination regarding any written notification of dispute
will take place at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Town Council, in
which the customer should plan to attend.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 3)
§ 50.04 SAFETY MANUAL.
   (A)   Adoption of safety manual. The town has adopted the following: the
American Public Power Association (APPA) Safety Manual 14 Edition and any
revisions thereafter.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 14, Ch. 1, § 1)
   (B)   Availability. The town will make available to the utility employees a
copy of the American Public Power Association’s (APPA) most recent edition of
the Safety Manual and any revisions for their review and study.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 14, Ch. 1, § 2)
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 3-2-2010)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Authority
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Rate for weekly residential trash pick-up service
   
51.04   Billing and collection
   
51.05   Payment and returned check charges
   
51.06   Disposition of fees
   
51.07   Collection of receptacles
   
51.08   Implementation
§ 51.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 36-1-
3 and 36-9-30 et seq.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RESIDENCE. A single-family home. Apartment complexes, doubles, townhouses,
or these types of housing are not considered a SINGLE-FAMILY HOME.
   TRASH. All worthless or useless matter, rubbish, or any other item for
disposal that can be placed in no larger than a 32-gallon plastic bag or
equivalent container.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 51.03 RATE FOR WEEKLY RESIDENTIAL TRASH PICK-UP SERVICE.
   There shall be charged and collected monthly, commencing in the month of
March 2023 (billed April 1, 2023) a fee of $13.57 per month from each
residential sewer or water utility customer of the town for weekly residential
trash collection service.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 51.04 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall bill each residential customer of the town
municipal sewer utility, at the rate provided in §
51.03. If a particular residence receiving trash collection is not a customer
of the sewer utility (e.g., customer has a septic tank), then the Clerk-
Treasurer shall bill that customer separately or with that customer’s water or
electric utility bill.
   (B)   Delinquent accounts for residential trash collection service shall be
subject to the collection policies and procedures of the municipal sewer and
water utilities for delinquent accounts.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 51.05 PAYMENT AND RETURNED CHECK CHARGES.
   (A)   Payment of the fee prescribed in this chapter may be made in cash, by
certified check or money order, or by single-party check.
   (B)   An additional charge of $35 shall be imposed for the return or
nonpayment of any check for any reason.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 51.06 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   (A)   All fees collected under the authority of this chapter shall be
accounted for in a non-reverting fund separate from all other revenues of the
town and its municipal utilities.
   (B)   All fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be applied and paid
in accordance with the budget for residential trash collection service as
adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 51.07 COLLECTION OF RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise ordered, the collection of residential trash by
contractor shall not commence before 7:00 a.m. and shall be completed by 7:00
p.m. on any single day of collection. No collections shall be made on Sundays,
New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, or
Christmas Day. If the collection day falls on a holiday identified herein, the
contractor will collect the residential trash the following day. Collections
shall be made on Fridays except when Friday is a legal holiday. Contractor may
change the schedule day for collection by notifying the town of such election
at least 60 days in advance of the date when the collection day is to be
changed.
   (B)   All trash to be collected shall be placed for collection by residents
in watertight covered receptacles, not exceeding 32 gallons in capacity and
also placed in no larger than a 32-gallon plastic bag or equivalent disposable
container. Said receptacles shall be placed conveniently for collection within
five feet of the curb, street pavement, or designated collection point. Plastic
bags, 112 mil. strength, may be substituted for receptacles. There shall be a
five 32-gallon bag limit per residence per week. Residents must provide their
own receptacles, at their expense, although contractor may sell, lease, or rent
receptacles to residents. Receptacles or substitute receptacles shall not be
placed for collection more than 12 hours prior to the schedule collection time.
   (C)   The contractor’s route persons shall pick up debris that has been
spilled or scattered. The contractor and its employees shall exercise due care
in the handling of trash containers and receptacles in order not to damage them
and shall replace all containers in an erect position with lids in place and
not permit the same to remain in any street, alley, or driveway. Any route
person using vulgar, course, or obscene language, being under the influence of
alcohol or controlled substances while on duty, or demanding or accepting pay
from citizens for services rendered pursuant to this agreement, or refusing to
collect and remove trash as referred to herein, shall immediately be removed
from work by contractor.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 3-7-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 IMPLEMENTATION.
   The Town Council hereby authorizes and directs the appropriate officials and
representatives of the town to take all necessary actions to implement this
chapter following final adoption.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 3-7-2023)
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRIC
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Net metering
Rules and Regulations
   
52.015   Adoption
   
52.016   Rules and regulations on file
   
52.017   Written application or contract required
   
52.018   Description of energy or current to be furnished
   
52.019   Service connections
   
52.020   Inside wiring and entrance equipment
   
52.021   Location of town transformers, meters, and appliances
   
52.022   Meters to be installed by the town
   
52.023   Failure of meter
   
52.024   Building containing two or more separate living quarters
   
52.025   Continued residential and commercial service
   
52.026   Access to premises
   
52.027   Continuous service
   
52.028   Release of town from liability
   
52.029   Town reserves right to shut off supply
   
52.030   Damages
   
52.031   Notify town before increasing load
   
52.032   Manner in which current may be used
   
52.033   Resale of current
   
52.034   Deposit
   
52.035   Town’s property and protection thereof
   
52.036   Exclusive service on installation connected
   
52.037   Modification of contract
   
52.038   Assignment
   
52.039   Delay due to strikes and the like
   
52.040   Equipment location permit
   
52.041   Motor installations
   
52.042   Month
   
52.043   Short time seasonable use each year of power service
   
52.044   Inspections
Rates and Charges
   
52.055   Economic development rider
   
52.056   Adoption of rates
   
52.057   Electric rates
   
52.058   Purchase power adjustment
   
52.059   Non-recurring charges
   
52.060   Rate RS electric residential service
   
52.061   Rate CS electric commercial service
   
52.062   Industrial power service rate schedule
   
52.063   Rate PPL electric primary power and light
   
52.064   Rate OL outdoor lighting service (security lights)
   
52.065   Rate SL public street lighting service
   
52.066   Appendix A; rate adjustment
   
52.067   Billing and disconnect service
   
52.068   Reconnection charge/late charges
   
52.069   Tracking factor
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 NET METERING.
   (A)   Findings. The findings and determinations set forth in the preambles
to the ordinance from which this section is derived are hereby made findings
and determinations of the Council.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 1)
   (B)   Encouraging investment. The town encourages interested citizens and
businesses to invest in renewable energy generation systems and enter in a net
metering arrangement with the municipal electric utility of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 2)
   (C)   Eligibility. ELIGIBLE NET METERING CUSTOMERS include single-phase
customers in good standing that own and operate a renewable generating facility
that:
      (1)   Has a nameplate capacity less than or equal to ten kilowatts (kW);
      (2)   Is located on the customer’s premises and is operated by the
customer; and
      (3)   Is used primarily to offset all or part of the customer’s own
electricity requirements.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 3)
   (D)   Authorization of utility. The Council authorizes the utility to offer
net metering to eligible net metering customers on a first-come, first-serve
basis. The utility shall limit the aggregate amount of net metering facility
nameplate capacity from all eligible net metering customers to 0.1% of the
utility’s most recent summer peak load.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 4)
   (E)   Measurement of energy. The utility shall measure the difference
between the amount of energy delivered by the utility to the eligible net
metering customer and the amount of energy generated by the eligible net
metering customer and delivered to the utility. If the eligible net metering
customer generates more energy than it consumes in a month, the customer shall
receive a bill credit from the utility for the amount of surplus energy
generated. The utility shall not purchase or wheel power energy produced by an
eligible net metering customer’s facilities.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 5)
   (F)   Net metering tariff. The net metering tariff attached to the ordinance
from which this section is derived shall be adopted as the rates, terms, and
conditions under which the utility will offer net metering to eligible net
metering customers.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 6)
   (G)   Interconnection agreement. In accordance with the terms of the net
metering tariff, the utility shall enter into an interconnection agreement with
the eligible net metering customer, which incorporates technical
interconnection requirements and does not conflict with this section before the
net metering facility may be connected with the utility’s system.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 7)
   (H)   Unlawful connections. It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to
connect or maintain the connection of a renewable generating facility to the
utility’s system without first executing an interconnection agreement with the
utility.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 8)
(Ord. 2015-8, passed 12-1-2015) Penalty, see §
52.999
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 52.015 ADOPTION.
   The Town Council shall from time to time adopt such rules and regulations as
required for the operation of the municipal electric utility.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7A)
§ 52.016 RULES AND REGULATIONS ON FILE.
   A copy of all rates, rules, and regulations under which electric service
will be supplied is posted or on file for the public’s benefit in the office of
the Town Clerk-Treasurer and with the Public Service Commission of the state.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C1)
§ 52.017 WRITTEN APPLICATION OR CONTRACT REQUIRED.
   A written application or contract properly executed, may be required from
customers, before the town will be required to supply service provided,
however, that the town shall have the right to reject, for any valid reason,
any application. The town may require contracts for a long period of time when
unusual construction or equipment expense is necessary to furnish the service.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C2)
§ 52.018 DESCRIPTION OF ENERGY OR CURRENT TO BE FURNISHED.
   The customer shall, upon request of the town, present in writing to the town
a list of the devices which are to be attached to the town’s lines, giving the
location of the building, and the town will then advise the form, voltage, and
description of the current it will furnish.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C3)
§ 52.019 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The town will locate the point to which service connection will be
brought to the building. The wires in the entrance run shall extend at least
three feet beyond the upper and outer end of the weatherproof fitting.
   (B)   (1)   Customer is responsible for following installation instruction
on Municipal L&P’s requirement sheet. For problems or questions, contact
Municipal L&P at 765-676-6331.
      (2)   Customer is responsible for making application for new service at
the Utility Billing Office located at 421 East Main Street. No meter will be
set until this requirement is fulfilled.
      (3)   Customer will contact Municipal L&P to schedule an onsite meeting.
All new or uprated services will need service locations approved whether
existing or proposed. If the customer desired new service attachment point not
acceptable to Municipal L&P, the Superintendent will at that time designate a
new point.
      (4)   Customer is responsible for building permits and for obtaining the
Building Inspector’s approval of the installation. After the installation of
the service by the customer the building inspector is to inspect each service
and indicate its approval. Additionally, Municipal L&P will make a final
inspection of the service up to the first point of disconnect to verify that it
is safe to hookup to the Municipal L&P system.
      (5)   The customer is responsible for meter bases, conduit up the utility
pole, and service wire to the first point of attachment only. All other
material will be supplied by the customer including trenching and backfilling
for the underground service, two and one-half inch conduit (including elbows)
as needed from the utility pole to the underground meter base, and all entrance
materials for overhead or underground services.
      (6)   The meter base will be mounted so that the center of the meter is
five feet six inches above final grade.
      (7)   Trenches for underground services must be inspected by Municipal
L&P prior to back filling to prevent possible problems. Trenches must be a
minimum of 36 inches deep to final grade and free of rocks and foreign objects.
Schedule 40 two and one-half inch PVC electrical conduit can be used below
grade but schedule 80 two and one-half inch PVC electrical conduit or rigid
metallic conduit must be used above grade. Conduit is required under driveways,
sidewalks, patios, and other places that may not be accessible after
installation.
      (8)   Riser pipes that Municipal L&P attaches to for overhead service
must be two-inch minimum rigid metallic conduit. If no attachment is to be made
on the riser, then rigid non-metallic (PVC) conduit may be used. The riser pipe
will be secured with approved clamps approximately three to four feet apart.
Two hole clamps are preferred because of their added holding capacity (no
service entrance cable allowed up to disconnect). The maximum attachment height
of the riser above the roof is 36-inch attachment heights greater than 36
inches require the use of a guyed support. Minimum height of the weatherhead
above the roof is 24 inches. Riser pipes through the roof must have roof
flashing approved for that use.
      (9)   An approved weatherhead must be used on all overhead installations.
Service entrance conductors at the weatherhead shall extend 18 inches to 24
inches out of the weatherhead and the neutral marked by stripping two inches
off of the insulation or marking tape.
      (10)   A five-inch by ten-foot or half-inch by ten-foot ground rod is to
be installed near the customer’s panel. The ground rod should be located out
from under the roof overhang in the most earth (approximately 18 inches). The
ground wire must be attached to the rod with approved brass or copper clamp.
The ground rod and wire are to be below grade to prevent damage or injury.
      (11)   If the fuse or breaker panel is not adjacent to the meter base the
customer may need to install an outside disconnect. When the installation of a
disconnect is required, the neutrals and grounds must be separated. Use of a
disconnect will also require the installation of a fourth wire from the
disconnect to the panel inside the dwelling. The need for the disconnect is the
responsibility of the Building Inspector.
      (12)   Conductor and ground wire sizing 100 amp #2 copper or #2 aluminum
grounding wire, #6 or #4 copper 200 amp #3/0 copper or #4/0 aluminum grounding
wire #4 copper.
      (13)   Interior wiring shall not be smaller than #12. All other wiring
shall be in accordance with the most current provisions of the National
Electric Code.
   (C)   The town will extend its lines a reasonable distance, as may be
determined by the town for the purpose of supplying electric service for a new
connection. Any changes made in service connections at the customer’s request,
after once installed, shall be at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C4) (Res. 94-2, passed 12-21-1994)
§ 52.020 INSIDE WIRING AND ENTRANCE EQUIPMENT.
   Applicants for service must, at their own expense, equip their premises with
all wiring, and entrance equipment, all of which shall be constructed and
maintained, subject to the approval of any authorized inspectors, and in
accordance with the rules and information of the town in force at the time. The
applicants shall at all times maintain the wires inside the building.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C5) Penalty, see
52.999
§ 52.021 LOCATION OF TOWN TRANSFORMERS, METERS, AND APPLIANCES.
   When the form of service requires, the customer shall provide free of
expense to the town, near service entrance, a suitable place for necessary
transformers, meter, or other appliances, which may be furnished by the town.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C6)
§ 52.022 METERS TO BE INSTALLED BY THE TOWN.
   (A)   (1)   The electricity, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
by meter or meters of standard manufacture, installed by the town on the
premises in accordance with Rule 10 of Rules and Standards of Service for
Electrical Utilities, established by the Public Service Commission of the
state, effective May 1, 1920, Cause No. 5344, and the rules and information of
town in force at the time.
      (2)   Upon the registration of said meter or meters all bills, other than
the service charge, shall be calculated.
   (B)   (1)   If more than one meter is installed on different classes of
service, (each class being charged for at different rates), each meter shall be
considered by itself in calculating the amount of any bills.
      (2)   When, for the convenience of the town, more than one meter is
installed hereunder, on the same class of service, the sum of the registration
shall in all cases be taken as the total registration. Meters include all
measuring instruments.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C7)
§ 52.023 FAILURE OF METER.
   Whenever it is discovered that a meter is not recording correctly,
adjustment shall be made covering such inaccuracy in accordance with Rule 19 of
Rules and Standards of Service for Electrical Utilities as issued by Public
Service Commission the state, effective May 1, 1920, Cause 5344.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C8)
§ 52.024 BUILDING CONTAINING TWO OR MORE SEPARATE LIVING QUARTERS.
   (A)   Where service is supplied through one meter to a building containing
two or more separate living quarters, the customer shall, by written
application to the town, (on standard form prescribed by it for that purpose)
elect whether:
      (1)   The service shall be classed as residential, in residential rate
shall be multiplied by the number of occupied living quarters served through
the meter; or
      (2)   The service shall be classed as commercial, in which case, for
billing purposes, the commercial rate shall be applied on the basis of a single
customer.
   (B)   (1)   The election made by the customer shall continue for a period of
12 months and thereafter until the customer notifies the town, in writing, of
his or her election to have the selected classification of such service
changed.
      (2)   Each such election subsequent to the initial election shall
continue for a 12-month period and thereafter until the customer again notifies
the town, in writing, of his or her election to change his or her selection of
the classification of such service.
   (C)   (1)   The customer may arrange the wiring at his or her own expense,
so as to separate the combined service and permit the town to install a
separate meter for each separate living quarter.
      (2)   In each such case the readings of each such meter shall be billed
separately on the residential rate.
   (D)   This rule has no application to rooming houses.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C9)
§ 52.025 CONTINUED RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Where both residential and commercial class of service are supplied
through one service and one meter to the same customer on the same premises,
such combined service shall be classed as commercial and billed under the
commercial service rate.
   (B)   At the option of the customer, the wiring may be so arranged at the
customers expense so as to separate the commercial service and residential
service to permit installations of two meters, in which case, the residential
rate will apply to the residential service and the commercial rate to the
commercial service.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C10)
§ 52.026 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The properly authorized agents of the town shall have the right to enter
upon the premises of the customer at all reasonable times for the purpose of
inspecting, repairing, or replacing all appliances used in connection with its
current, and removing the same on the termination of the contract or the
discontinuance of the service.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C11)
§ 52.027 CONTINUOUS SERVICE.
   The town shall not be responsible in damages for any failure to supply
electricity or for interruption, or reversal of the supply, if such failure,
interruption, or reversal is without willful default or negligence on its part.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C12)
§ 52.028 RELEASE OF TOWN FROM LIABILITY.
   The customer agrees that the town shall not be liable for damages resulting
to customer or to third persons from the use of electricity or the presence of
the town’s appliances, in the customer’s premises, unless due to willful
default or neglect on the part of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C13)
§ 52.029 TOWN RESERVES RIGHT TO SHUT OFF SUPPLY.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to shut off the supply of electricity
without notice, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   For repairs;
      (2)   For want of supply;
      (3)   For nonpayment of any bill when due;
      (4)   For interference with any of the town’s appliances or connections
thereto; or
      (5)   For failure to comply with the terms of the contract.
   (B)   Such discontinuance shall not, however, invalidate any contract, and
said town shall have the right to enforce any contract, notwithstanding such
discontinuance.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C14)
§ 52.030 DAMAGES.
   It is expressly stipulated by the town and agreed to by the customer, that
the town shall not be liable for damages because of any interruption to the
supply of current or for damages caused by defective wiring on the customer’s
premises.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C15)
§ 52.031 NOTIFY TOWN BEFORE INCREASING LOAD.
   The service connections, transformers, meters, and appliances supplied by
the town have definite capacity, and no substantial addition to the equipment
or connected load thereto will be allowed, except by written consent from the
town.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C16)
§ 52.032 MANNER IN WHICH CURRENT MAY BE USED.
   (A)   Electric current must be used for the purpose set forth in the
contract and in such a manner as not to cause unprovided for voltage
fluctuation.
   (B)   Lighting current must not be taken from power lines, nor current for
power purposes from lighting lines in excess of three horsepower, without the
consent of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C18)
§ 52.033 RESALE OF CURRENT.
   The current furnished under the contract is for the use of the customers and
he or she shall not re-sell any of it or permit any person to use same without
written consent of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C19)
§ 52.034 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   (1)   The town may require from all applicants for service a cash
deposit equal to the estimated consumption by such applicant for a period of 60
days as a guarantee against the nonpayment of bills for service; provided,
however, that, where consumer is the owner of property or furnishes a written
guarantee from a property owner, the town shall waive such cash deposit. Such
guarantee shall not make guarantor liable in an amount exceeding the charge for
a period of 60 days.
      (2)   Such cash deposit minus any unpaid amounts for service rendered
consumer shall be returned upon the discontinuance of service.
   (B)   In all cases, where the monthly consumption is in excess of that
covered by the deposit, the town may increase the amount of deposit required
but such deposit shall not exceed an amount for any estimated 60-day service.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C20) (Ord. 99-5, passed 3-2-1999)
§ 52.035 TOWN’S PROPERTY AND PROTECTION THEREOF.
   All meters, lamps or other appliances and equipment furnished by and at the
expense of the town, which may at any time be in said premises, shall, unless,
otherwise expressly provided herein, be and remain the property of the town,
and the customer shall protect such property from loss or damage, and no one
who is not an agent of the town shall be permitted to remove such property or
tamper therewith.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C21)
§ 52.036 EXCLUSIVE SERVICE ON INSTALLATION CONNECTED.
   No other electric light or power service shall, except under a contract for
auxiliary service, be used by the customer on the same installation in
conjunction with the town’s service, either by means of a “throw-over” switch
or any other connection.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C22) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.037 MODIFICATION OF CONTRACT.
   No premises, agreements, or representations of any agent of the town shall
be binding upon the town unless the same shall have been incorporated in
contract in writing, before same is signed and approved.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C23)
§ 52.038 ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)   The benefits and obligations of any power agreement shall begin when
the town commences to supply electric service thereunder, and shall insure to
and be binding upon the successors and assigns, survivors and executors or
administrators, as the case may be, of the original parties hereto,
respectively, for the full terms hereof; provided that, no assignment hereof
shall be made by the customer without first obtaining the town’s written
consent.
   (B)   (1)   Lighting customers must make application to the office of the
town before they commence using the current.
      (2)   Lighting customers moving must notify the town in writing, or
otherwise they will be held responsible for the bills of their successors who
refuse to pay.
   (C)   No order for changing or discontinuing a contract will be accepted
over the telephone. All orders must be in writing.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C24)
§ 52.039 DELAY DUE TO STRIKES AND THE LIKE.
   Neither party shall be held liable for any failure or delay in performing
any of the things undertaken by it in this agreement in case such failure or
delay is caused by strikes, the act of God, or unavoidable accidents or
contingencies beyond its control and in no manner due to any fault, neglect, or
omission on its part.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C25)
§ 52.040 EQUIPMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   The customer shall obtain and deliver to the town the necessary consent, on
the town’s forms, from property owner, or owners, to the installation and
maintenance in said premises and on, over, or through all private property of
all such wiring or other electrical equipment as may be necessary or convenient
for the supplying of electricity hereunder.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C26)
§ 52.041 MOTOR INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Motor installations of one or more motors aggregating five horse power
or less must be single phase unless three phase is available at the location
where the motor is to be used. Motor installations of one or more motors
aggregating 7-2’ horse power may be single phase, but should preferably be
three phase.
   (B)   Motor installations of one or more motors aggregating ten horse power
must be three phase, if three phase service is available.
   (C)   Motors of one-third horse power and under may be operated on lighting
circuits and may be wound for 110 or 220 volts. Single-phase motors in excess
of one-half horse power and up to three horse power, inclusive, must be wound
for 220 volts and can be connected on the 230 volt legs of the three wire
lighting service, but they must be run on a separate circuit.
   (D)   Single-phase motors in excess of three horse power individual capacity
must be covered by contract and must have a meter and power service outlet
separate and distinct from the meter and outlet for lighting service.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C27)
§ 52.042 MONTH.
   A MONTH means the period between any two consecutive regular readings by the
town of the meter or meters on the premises, such readings being taken as
nearly as practicable every 30 days.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C28)
§ 52.043 SHORT TIME SEASONABLE USE EACH YEAR OF POWER SERVICE.
   Where the nature of the business is seasonable (such as in canning factories
and the like) where service is used for a limited period regularly each year,
and the yearly minimum charge, or monthly minimum charge for each month for one
year, is not satisfactory to the customer, then the following rules will apply.
   (A)   In cases where the service line is in place and the customer has been
or is being served, the town will render service as provided for in the rate
schedule applicable to the type of service taken, provided that the customer
shall pay the cost of connecting and disconnecting the service in accordance
with the job work order procedure of the town. Only two connections and
disconnections shall be made in any one year under this rule, and the customer
is to make written application specifying the period or periods of service.
   (B)   The regular monthly minimum charge as provided for in the rate
schedule applicable to the type of service will apply for the period under
which service is taken.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C29)
§ 52.044 INSPECTIONS.
   The inspection of all such residences, business rooms, places of business,
and buildings shall conform to the National Electric Code of Rules, and shall
be made for the purpose of ascertaining the safety thereof and to protect the
said town against fire by reason of defective or unsafe or unsatisfactory
wiring.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 7C30)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.055 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT RIDER.
   (A)   Findings. The findings and determinations set forth in the preambles
of the ordinance from which this section is derived are hereby made findings
and determinations of the Council.
   (B)   Adoption. The amended economic development rider attached to the
ordinance from this section is derived is hereby adopted by the Council, to be
effective immediately, replacing the current economic development rider.
   (C)   Economic development rider.
      (1)   Availability. This rider is available to a qualifying customer (as
defined herein) to encourage large power users to expand or create new
operations within the utility’s service territory.
      (2)   Qualifications.
         (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
            QUALIFYING CUSTOMER. A new or existing nonresidential customer in
the utility’s service territory that is establishing new operations or
expanding existing operations such that the new or expanded operations will
result in new or additional demand of at least one MW (1,000 kW) at one
delivery point (the “qualifying demand”) and the new or expanded operations has
involved a capital investment of at least $1,000,000 within the utility’s
service territory.
         (b)   For a qualifying customer that is expanding operations,
qualifying demand is measured from the average monthly peak demand for the 12
months immediately preceding the incentive period’s effective date. For a
qualifying customer that is establishing new operations, qualifying demand is
measured from zero.
         (c)   A qualifying customer is not a customer:
            1.   With “new” demand that results from a change in ownership of
an existing establishment without qualifying new load;
            2.   Renewing service following interruptions such as equipment
failure, temporary plant shutdown, strike, economic conditions, or natural
disaster; or
            3.   Has shifted its load from one operation or customer to another
within the utility’s service territory. The utility may determine exclusively,
without recourse by the customer, whether an event has occurred that would
prevent a customer from being a qualifying customer.
      (3)   Rate incentive. Beginning with the incentive period’s effective
date, utility will receive a credit on its wholesale bill for the qualifying
new load. The incentive amount received by utility from the Indiana Municipal
Power Agency for such load will be passed in full to qualifying customers. For
reference purposes, the discount to the qualifying customer’s wholesale cost
for qualifying new load will be calculated according to the following schedule:
 
Months 1-12  20%
Months 13-24 15%
Months 25-36 10%
Months 37-48 10%
Months 49-60 5%
 
         (a)   INCENTIVE PERIOD means months one through 60, as designated
above. The INCENTIVE PERIOD’S EFFECTIVE DATE means the first calendar day of
the first month in which the customer receives the incentive. If the incentive
period’s effective date is after December 31, 2023, the total incentive that
the qualifying customer may receive in each 12-month period shall be limited to
the incentive amount approved in the Indiana Municipal Power Agency’s Schedule
B in effect as of the incentive period’s effective date.
         (b)   The qualifying customer must meet the minimum qualifying demand
during each month of the incentive period. Failure to meet the minimum
qualifying demand in a particular month will result in 0% reduction for that
month.
      (4)   Terms and conditions.
         (a)   1.   The qualifying customer must submit a service application
to the utility specifying:
               a.   A description of the amount and nature of the new load;
               b.   The basis on which the qualifying customer meets the
requirements of this rider;
               c.   The qualifying customer’s desired effective date; and
               d.   Such other information as the member may require.
            2.   To receive the incentive, the qualifying customer will be
required to certify that one MW of connected new load has been added. Inactive
rider applications will expire at the earlier of either the termination of this
rider or one year from the application submission date. Customers may reapply
for the rider upon expiration of an application.
         (b)   This rider will terminate on the same date that IMPA’s economic
development rider terminates, except that any qualifying customer receiving the
rate incentive at the time of the rider’s termination may continue receiving
the incentive for the remainder of the applicable incentive period (as long as
it continues to meet the rider’s requirements).
      (5)   Applicable rate schedules. This rider is applicable to the rates in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.056 ADOPTION OF RATES.
   (A)   The Phase 1 electric rates and charges set forth in §
52.062 and made a part hereof are hereby adopted and established for the use of
the service rendered by the Jamestown Power and Light, beginning July 1, 2022.
   (B)   The Phase 2 electric rates and charges set forth in §
52.063 and made a part hereof will replace the Phase 1 rates exactly one year
from the effective date of the Phase 1 rates and established for the use of the
service rendered by the town’s municipal electric utility.
   (C)   A purchase power adjustment set forth in §
52.064 and made a part hereof will be applicable with the rates established in
divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   The utility’s non-recurring fees set forth in §
52.065 and made a part hereof will be applicable with the rates established in
divisions (A), (B), and (C) above.
   (E)   For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for electric
use, the meters shall be read monthly, and the use shall be billed monthly.
   (F)   The electric utility rates and charges adopted hereby shall become
effective for all bills payable on or after July 1, 2022.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.057 ELECTRIC RATES.
Electric Rates
  Phase 1        Phase 2
  (July 1, 2022) (July 1, 2023)
Electric Rates
                                                 Phase 1        Phase 2
                                                 (July 1, 2022) (July 1, 2023)
Residential Service
Facility charge (per month)                      $9.50          $14.50
Energy charge (per kWh)
 First 200 kWh                                   $0.1300        $0.1450
 Next 700 kWh                                    $0.1124        $0.1163
 Over 1,000 kWh                                  $0.0925        $0.0915
Commercial Service (Single Phase)
Facility charge (per month)
 Single-phase                                    $12.50         $17.50
 Three-phase                                     $20            $25
Energy charge (per kWh)
 First 300 kWh                                   $0.1300        $0.1450
 Next 700 kWh                                    $0.1080        $0.1040
 Over 1,000 kWh                                  $0.0900        $0.0900
Primary Power and Light Service
Facility charge (per kVA installed transformer   $1.35          $1.50
capacity per month)
Demand charge (per kW)                           $12.50         $14
Energy charge (per kWh)                          $0.0650        $0.0586
Industrial Power Service
Facility charge (per kVA installed transformer   $1.35          $1.50
capacity per month)
Distribution demand charge (per maximum kW)      $2.12          $4
Current IMPA wholesale power costs for demand,
energy, reactive, and cost adjustment rates
   Outdoor Lighting Service (per lamp per month)
175-watt mercury vapor                           $6.42          $6.55
100-watt high pressure sodium                    $6.42          $6.55
50-watt LED                                      $4.25          $4.25
   Street Lighting (per lamp per month)
65-watt LED                                      $4.65          $4.35
142-watt LED                                     $5.40          $5.75
Flasher light                                    $6.50          $8
 
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.058 PURCHASE POWER ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The purchase power adjustment (or tracker) factor is applicable to all
metered rates in dollars per kWh. It shall be calculated on the basis of a
factor occasioned solely by changes in the cost of purchased power and energy,
in accordance with the order of the State Utility Regulatory Commission,
approved on December 13, 1989, in Cause No. 36835-S3.
   (B)   The embedded base costs for the calculation of future purchase power
cost adjustment tracking factors are based on 2022 IMPA purchased power costs
as follows:
      (1)   Purchased power—demand: $24.834/kW-month; and
      (2)   Purchased power—energy: $0.030226/kWh.
   (C)   The purchase power adjustment is calculated quarterly and is expected
to vary depending on energy sales and purchase power charges. As a result,
customers can expect increases or decreases from quarter to quarter.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.059 NON-RECURRING CHARGES.
   (A)   Disconnect/reconnection charge.
      (1)   When service has been disconnected by the electric utility at the
facility’s option, a request to reconnect service during normal business hours
will require a reconnect charge of $50 prior to service being restored.
      (2)   The consumer, at his or her option, requests service to be restored
after normal business hours, as provided in division (A)(1) above, a charge of
$150 must be paid prior to reconnection.
   (B)   Insufficient funds. When a check that was received in payment of a
consumer’s account is returned unpaid by the bank for any reason (not the fault
of the electric utility), the consumer shall be assessed a handling charge of
$35 for each check returned by the bank.
   (C)   Consumer false callout. When a consumer calls the utility for service
restoration or repairs on the consumer’s premises and it is determined that the
problem is confined to the consumer’s property or facilities (such as a tripped
breaker, blown fuse, faulty wiring, and the like), a service charge of $50 may
be assessed toward the consumer’s account. The charge for this service after
business hours is $100.
   (D)   Damage to utility facilities. If a consumer causes damage to any
facility of the utility, the consumer shall be responsible for all costs
associated with repairing or replacing the damaged facilities.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.060 RATE RS ELECTRIC RESIDENTIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Available to any individual residential dwelling unit
for electric service used principally for residential purposes and served
through one meter when the maximum load requirements do not exceed 50
kilowatts.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, 60 Hertz, at a voltage of
approximately 115 volts two-wire, or 115/230 volts three-wire, where available.
   (C)   Rate.
 
Rate                                           Phase
                                               I       II
Facility charge (per month)                    $9.50   $14.50
Energy charge (in addition to facility charge)
 First 300 kWh (per kWh per month)             $0.1300 $0.1450
 Next 700 kWh (per kWh per month)              $0.1124 $0.1163
 Over 1,000 kWh (per kWh per month)            $0.0925 $0.0915
 
   (D)   Adjustments. The charges derived in the above rates are subject to
adjustment for purchased power cost adjustment tracking factor (see § 52.071).
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.061 RATE CS ELECTRIC COMMERCIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Available through one meter to any commercial customer
whose maximum load requirements do not exceed 50 kilowatts.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, 60 Hertz, at a voltage of
approximately 115 volts two-wire, or 115/230 volts three-wire, where available.
   (C)   Rate.
Rate Phase
     I II
Rate                                           Phase
                                               I       II
Facility charge (per month)*
 Single-phase service                          $12.50  $17.50
 Three-phase service                           $20     $25
Energy charge (in addition to facility charge)
 First 300 kWh (per kWh per month)             $0.1300 $0.1450
 Next 700 kWh (per kWh per month)              $0.1080 $0.1040
 Over 1,000 kWh (per kWh per month)            $0.0900 $0.0900
Note to table:
*   Minimum monthly charge shall be the facility charge.
 
   (D)   Adjustments. The charges derived in the above rates are subject to
adjustment for purchased power cost adjustment tracking factor (see § 52.071).
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.062 INDUSTRIAL POWER SERVICE RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Availability of service. Availability to any customer whose maximum
load is 1,000 kVA or three-phase service is required. Customer must be located
adjacent to a distribution line having adequate capacity for the customer’s
requirements.
   (B)   Rate.
      (1)   Facility charge (per month) per kVA of connected transformer
capacity:
         (a)   Phase I: $1.35; and
         (b)   Phase II: $1.50.
      (2)   Distribution demand charge (per month in addition to facility
charge) per kW of metered monthly billing maximum load:
         (a)   Phase I: $2.12; and
         (b)   Phase II: $4.
   (C)   Billed demand and energy charges (subject to the provisions of §
52.063).
      (1)   The cost per kilowatt (kW) of billed demand shall be equal to the
current wholesale demand-related rate(s), including applicable demand
adjustment factors, of power purchased for the most recent month.
      (2)   The cost per kilowatt hour (kWh) of billed energy shall be equal to
the current wholesale energy-related rate(s), including applicable energy
adjustment factors, of power purchased for the most recent month.
   (D)   Reactive demand charge (subject to the provisions of §
52.063). The reactive demand charge shall be equal to the current wholesale
reactive demand rate of power purchased for the most recent month.
   (E)   Determination of billed demand and measurement of billed energy.
      (1)   The billed demand shall be measured by suitable recording
instruments provided by the utility, and in any month, the BILLED DEMAND shall
be the 60-minute integrated kW demand occurring in the same 60-minute interval
and on the same day of each month as the 60-minute integrated demand that will
be used by the Indiana Municipal Power Agency to bill the town.
      (2)   The billed demand shall be measured by suitable integrating
instruments and, in any month, the energy shall be the sum of the 60-minute
integrated kW demands.
   (F)   Determination of billing reactive demand. The billing reactive demand
for any billing period shall be the amount of reactive demand in kVARs by which
the metered reactive demand exceeds the reactive demand at a 97% power factor.
   (G)   Determination of distribution demand. Billing maximum load shall be
measured by suitable instruments and, in any month, the billing maximum load
shall be the average number of kW in the 30-minute interval during which the
demand metered is greater than that in any other 30-minute interval in such
month.
   (H)   Term of service. Service arrangements under Rate Schedule IP will be
made for an initial term of not less than one year with a longer term if
specified in a contract between the customer and the town.
   (I)   Special terms and conditions. Service under Rate Schedule IP normally
will be supplied through one metering installation. Where customer is served
from two or more delivery points to the same plant or location, the meter
readings may be totalized for the billing.
   (J)   Applicable wholesale rates.
      (1)   The cost per kilowatt (kW) of billed demand, billed energy, and
billed reactive demand shall be equal to the current wholesale rate(s),
including applicable demand adjustment factors, of power purchased the town:
         (a)   Billed demand charge: $24.834 per kW-month of billed demand;
         (b)   Billed reactive demand charge: $1.20 per kilovar-month (“kVAR”)
of excess billing reactive demand;
         (c)   Billed energy charge: $0.030632 per kWh-month;
         (d)   Demand ECA charge: $0.321 per kW-month of billed demand; and
         (e)   Energy ECA charge: $0.000406 per kWh-month.
      (2)   These rates are effective January through December 2022.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.063 RATE PPL ELECTRIC PRIMARY POWER AND LIGHT.
   (A)   Availability. Available to any customer having a monthly maximum load
of 50 kilowatts, or more, except as hereinafter provided. The applicant must
agree to a one-year term of service and be located adjacent to an electric
transmission or distribution line of the utility that is adequate and suitable
for supplying the service required.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current having a frequency of 60
Hertz and furnished in accordance with the provisions set forth hereunder.
   (C)   Rate.
 
Rate                                                         Phase
                                                             I       II
Demand charge (in addition to facility charge) per kW of     $12.50  $14
metered monthly billing maximum load
Energy charge (in addition to facility charge and demand     $0.0650 $0.0586
charge) - All kWh metered per month per kWh
Facility charge (per month) per kVA of connected transformer $1.35   $1.50
capacity*
Note to table:
*Minimum monthly charge shall be the facility charge.
 
   (D)   Adjustments. The charges derived in the above rates are subject to
adjustment for purchased power cost adjustment tracking factor. (See § 52.071.)
   (E)   Determination of billing maximum load and energy. Billing maximum load
shall be measured by suitable instruments and, in any month, the MAXIMUM LOAD
shall be the average number of kW in the 30-minute interval during which the
demand metered is greater than in any other 30-minute interval in such month.
Energy (kWh) shall be measured by suitable integrating instruments.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.064 RATE OL OUTDOOR LIGHTING SERVICE (SECURITY LIGHT).
   (A)   Availability. Available to any residential, farm, commercial, or
industrial customer located adjacent to an electric distribution line.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, single-phase, 60 Hertz, at
a voltage of approximately 115 volts two-wire, or 115/230 volts three-wire.
Lamps to burn approximately one-half hour after sunset until approximately one-
half hour before sunrise each day of the year, approximately 4,000 hours per
year.
   (C)   Rate.
      (1)   For each luminary, including a bracket not to exceed four feet and
one span of secondary conductors, wattage rated lamps (rate per lamp per
month):
 
Size of Lamp (watts)     Phase
                         I     II
50 LED                   $4.25 $4.25
175 Mercury vapor        $6.42 $6.55
100 High pressure sodium $6.42 $6.55
 
      (2)   When additional facilities not provided for in the charges in
division (C)(1) above are installed by the utility, customer will pay in
advance of installation the cost of such additional facilities which may be
required to supply service from the most suitable existing pole of the utility
to the point designated by the customer for the installation of said lamp.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.065 RATE SL PUBLIC STREET LIGHTING SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Available for any standard overhead public street
lighting service.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, single-phase, 60 Hertz, at
a voltage of approximately 115 volts two-wire, or 115/230 volts three-wire.
   (C)   Rate.
 
Rate          Phase
              I                   II
Type of Lamp  Per Month Per Annum Per Month Per Annum
65 watt LED   $4.65     $55.80    $4.35     $52.20
142 watt LED  $5.40     $64.80    $5.75     $69
Flasher light $6.50     $78       $8        $96
 
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.066 APPENDIX A; RATE ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Applicability. This section is applicable to §§
52.065,
52.066, and
52.068.
   (B)   Purchased power cost adjustment tracking factor. This rate adjustment
is occasioned solely by changes in the cost of purchased power, in accordance
with the State Utility Regulatory Commission approved December 13, 1989, in
Cause No. 36835-S3 as follows: rate adjustment applicable to the rate schedules
listed in division (A) above is $0.00 per kWh used per month.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.067 BILLING AND DISCONNECT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Bills for the rates and charges established by the town shall be sent
monthly. All bills shall be payable on the first day of the month following the
period of service and shall be paid at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer at 421
East Main Street, Jamestown, IN, during business hours or mailed to P.O. Box
165, Jamestown, IN 46147.
   (B)   If a bill is not paid by the fifteenth day of the month, it shall be
subject to the collection of a late payment charge and shall be added thereto
and collected therewith.
      (1)   Also, if bills are not paid by the fifteenth day of the month, a
written notice of discontinuance of service will be mailed to the customer and,
if not paid, the services will be disconnected 14 days after the town serves
notice upon the customer of its intent to terminate service or upon the twenty-
ninth day of the month, whichever occurs later, (if the fourteenth day after
the town serves notice upon the customer of its intent to terminate service or
the twenty-ninth day of the month, whichever is applicable, falls on a weekend
or a holiday the service will be disconnected on the following business day).
      (2)   The electric supply for the lot, parcel of land, or premises
affected shall be shut off and shall not be turned on again except on payment
in full of the delinquent bill, late payment charge, and reconnection charge.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 10-5-2004; Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05,
passed 4-4-2023; Ord. 2024-05, passed 4-2-2024)
§ 52.068 RECONNECTION CHARGE/LATE CHARGES.
   (A)   When the electric service has been turned off by the electric utility
for the nonpayment of bill, the customer must pay a reconnection charge before
such service is reconnected at a rate of $50 during normal utility hours or
$150 outside normal utility hours.
   (B)   When a reconnection of service is made for a customer at the same
location more often than once in a 12-month period and service has, in each
case, been disconnected at the customer’s request, a charge of $50 may be made
by the utility for such reconnection of service during normal utility hours or
$150 if such reconnection is requested by the customer outside normal utility
hours.
   (C)   If a bill is not paid by the fifteenth day of the month, it shall be
subject to the collection of a late payment charge. Three percent of the amount
of the bill shall be added thereto and collected therewith.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 7-3-2018; Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05,
passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.069 TRACKING FACTOR.
   (A)   When future changes occur in the cost of purchased power which changes
would cause a change in said purchased power cost adjustment tracking factor
calculated in accordance with the order of the State Utility Regulatory
Commission approved on December 13, 1989, in Cause No. 36835-S3 as may be
thereafter amended by said Commission, such factor shall automatically be
changed accordingly.
   (B)   The embedded base costs for the calculation of future tracking factors
are based on 2022 IMPA purchased power costs as follows:
      (1)   Purchased power—demand: $24.834/kW-month; and
      (2)   Purchased power—energy: $0.030226/kWh.
   (C)   The tracking factor is calculated quarterly and is expected to vary
depending on energy sales and purchase power charges. As a result, customers
can expect increases or decreases from quarter to quarter.
(Ord. 96-1, passed 6-4-1996; Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-05,
passed 4-4-2023)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or entity found to be in violation of §
52.001 shall be fined not less than $500, nor more than $2,500 for each such
violation, plus costs. In addition to the foregoing fines, and at the utility’s
sole discretion, property where a renewable generating facility is unlawfully
connected to the utility’s system may be disconnected from the utility’s system
until an interconnection agreement is executed between the owner of such
property and the utility. Every day that a violation of this section occurs
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 8) (Ord. 2015-8, passed 12-1-2015)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
Rules and Regulations
   
53.01   Billing procedure
   
53.02   Tapping fees
   
53.03   Larger taps
   
53.04   Availability fees
   
53.05   Temporary users
   
53.06   Water meters
   
53.07   Inspections
   
53.08   Multiple customers
   
53.09   Shut offs
   
53.10   Fire hydrant use
   
53.11   Interference with utility property
   
53.12   Prohibited connections
   
53.13   Disconnection
   
53.14   Averaging bills
   
53.15   Deposits
   
53.16   Schedule public record
   
53.17   Extensions
Backflow Requirements and Regulations
   
53.30   Definitions
   
53.31   Cross-connections prohibited
   
53.32   Inspections
   
53.33   Right of entry
   
53.34   Discontinuance of water service
   
53.35   Reduced pressure principal backflow preventers
   
53.36   Supplementary to state regulations
   
53.37   Backflow prevention device
   
53.38   Notice
Rates and Charges
   
53.50   Rates established
   
53.51   Rates and charges
 
   
53.99   Penalty
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 53.01 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Bills for the rates and charges established by the town shall be
sent monthly. All bills shall be payable on the first day of the month
following the period of service and shall be paid at the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer at 421 East Main Street, Jamestown, IN during business hours or
mailed to P.O. Box 165 Jamestown, IN 46147.
      (2)   If a bill is not paid by the fifteenth day of the month, it shall
be subject to the collection of a late payment charge and shall be added
thereto and collected therewith. Also, if bills are not paid by the fifteenth
day of the month, a written notice of discontinuance of service will be mailed
to the customer and, if not paid, the services will be disconnected 14 days
after the town serves notice upon the customer of its intent to terminate
service or upon the twenty-ninth day of the month, whichever occurs later, (if
the fourteenth day after the town serves notice upon the customer of its intent
to terminate service or the twenty-ninth day of the month, whichever is
applicable, falls on a weekend or a holiday, the service will be disconnected
on the following business day). The water supply for the lot, parcel of land,
or premises affected shall be shut off and shall not be turned on again except
on payment in full of the delinquent bill, late payment charge, and
reconnection charge.
   (B)   (1)   When the water service has been turned off by the water utility
for the nonpayment of bill, the customer must pay a reconnection charge of $20
before such service is reconnected.
      (2)   When a reconnection of service is made for a customer at the same
location more often than once in a 12-month period and service has, in each
case, been disconnected at the customer’s request, a charge of $20 may be made
by the utility for such reconnection of service.
      (3)   If a bill is not paid by the fifteenth day of the month, it shall
be subject to the collection of a late payment charge of 10% of the amount of
the bill shall be added thereto and collected therewith.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 1) (Ord. 2004-6, passed 10-5-2004 ;
Ord. 2024-05, passed 4-2- 2024)
§ 53.02 TAPPING FEES.
   (A)   Each user, at the time he or she is connected with the waterworks
system, shall pay a charge to cover the cost of tapping the main, furnishing
and laying service pipe, corporation and stop-cocks, service and meter box, and
installing the meter; provided, however, the tapping fee for three-quarter inch
service with five-eighths inch by three-quarter inch meter shall be $1,250 plus
all associated fees, plus state highway permit. In addition, all tap fees for
larger service shall be computed as set out below.
   (B)   (1)   All taps for water service in the mains of the waterworks system
shall be made under the direct authority and supervision of the Waterworks
Superintendent.
      (2)   All applications for a new water service shall be made in writing
to the Town Clerk- Treasurer or Superintendent and approved by the Town Council
before any taps are made.
   (C)   Subject to the limitations of this subchapter under §
53.06 regarding connection outside a frost proof hydrant, and §
53.12 regarding sale or transfer of ownership, any single-family addressed lot
located within the town’s corporate limits with more than one water meter
installed on or before October 4, 2022, is grandfathered and permitted to have
more than one meter so long as all tap fees and related fees have been paid for
each meter on or before November 6, 2022.
   (D)   For any meter installed on or before January 1, 2019, a presumption
arises that all tap fees and related fees have been paid, which presumption may
be rebutted with affirmative evidence that such tap fees and related fees were
not paid.
   (E)   After October 4, 2022, no additional user beyond those grandfathered
under division (C) above may have more than one water meter on any single-
family addressed lot located within the town’s corporate limits.
   (F)   No connection to the town’s waterworks system shall be allowed until a
payment of availability fees, tap fees, and all other related fees have been
made to the town.
(Ord. 96-5, passed 11-12-1996; Ord. 2002-6, passed 1-7-2003; Ord. 2004-6,
passed 10-5-2004; Ord. 2009-1, passed 3-3-2009; Ord. 2022-08, passed 10-4-2022)
Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 LARGER TAPS.
   Fees for any service larger than in §
53.02 shall be sufficient to cover the cost of tapping the main, finishing, and
laying service pipe, corporation and stop-cocks, service and meter box, and
installation of the meter.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 3)
§ 53.04 AVAILABILITY FEES.
   (A)   The charge to a user for a new connection to or additional water usage
from an existing connection to the town’s waterworks system and is charged as a
pro rata cost of construction of all water distribution mains and appurtenances
to serve the property of the connecting user and is charged in return for the
town making available to such user the town’s water supply system consisting of
all facilities and operations necessary to provide potable water to such user.
The amount of the availability fee shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential user: $1,295 per EDU; and
      (2)   All other users: $1,295 per EDU.
   (B)   EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU) is defined as the average use of a
single-family dwelling over one calendar year. EDU determinations for water
users other than single-family dwellings shall be determined in accordance with
327 I.A.C. Article 8.
   (C)   Where a project charge or recoupment agreement charge has been
established prior to the date of this section, the project charge or recoupment
agreement charge shall apply. The cost of distribution systems constructed
after the date of this section by someone other than the town under a written
agreement with the town may be credited against the availability fee. The
decision to allow such credit, and the amount of the credit, shall be made
solely at the discretion of the town.
Calculation of System Development
Charge by Meter Size
Meter Size Equivalency 5/8” RatProposed Factor Charge
Calculation of System Development
Charge by Meter Size
Meter Size     Equivalency 5/8” RatProposed Factor Charge
5/8 — 3/4 inc$1,295                1.0             $1,295
1 inch         $1,295                2.5             $3,238
1-1/2 inch     $1,295                5.0             $6,475
2 inch         $1,295                8.0             $10,360
3 inch         $1,295                15.0            $19,425
4 inch         $1,295                25.0            $32,375
6 inch         $1,295                50.0            $64,650
8 inch         $1,295                80.0            $103,600
 
   (D)   Payment of the availability fee and tap fee shall be made at the
following times.
      (1)   For new construction connections or additional water usage from
existing water connections requiring plat or plan approval, one half of the
availability fee shall be paid at the time of signing the record plat or detail
plan approval, or conditional use approval.
      (2)   The remaining half of the availability fee and the entire tap fee
shall be paid before the issuance of a building permit.
      (3)   For all existing connections in want of additional water usage or
new construction added not requiring plat or plan approval, the availability
fee shall be paid in full before the additional usage is provided for the
town’s water system.
   (E)   The charges and fees set forth in this section shall be reviewed every
calendar year for continued applicability and financial necessity.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 4) (Ord. 2009-1, passed 3-3-2009)
§ 53.05 TEMPORARY USERS.
   (A)   Water furnished to temporary users such as contractors, circuses, and
the like shall be charged on the basis of the metered gallon rates hereinbefore
set forth as estimated and established by the Waterworks Superintendent or the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   In case of temporary users such as contractors, street fairs,
carnivals, and the like, the Superintendent shall be authorized to demand
payment in advance for the amount of water estimated to be required.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 5)
§ 53.06 WATER METERS.
   (A)   All water meters shall be installed outside in tiles or inside
consumer’s premises (i.e., commercial/multi-family residence) in the location
and manner as selected by the Waterworks Superintendent. Any water only meter
located within the town’s corporate limits must be hooked up outside on a
frost-proof hydrant.
   (B)   Any refusal of prospective user to agree to meter location and/or
installation to serve best interest of town; or for a user grandfathered under
§
53.02(C) to have failed to pay all tap fees and related fees for any water
meter currently located on any single-family addressed lot located within the
town’s corporate limits on or before November 6, 2022, shall, at the option of
the Town Council, be sufficient reason to refuse water service until such
requirements are met.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 53.07 INSPECTIONS.
   A waterworks representative shall have the right to inspect at any
reasonable time all service piping and water appurtenances inside consumers’
premises.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 7)
§ 53.08 MULTIPLE CUSTOMERS.
   Any service pipe that supplies two or more customers shall be provided with
a separate stop-cock and separate meter for each customer, with minimum charge,
when consumption is minimum or under, applicable to each meter, except as
specified in §
53.13.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 8)
§ 53.09 SHUT OFFS.
   Water shall be turned off or on at curb cock or meter only by a waterworks
employee and not by customer. All service pipes must have stop and waste cocks
between outside meter and customer premises for emergency shut offs and making
of repairs.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 9)
§ 53.10 FIRE HYDRANT USE.
   No person shall take water from any fire hydrant except for fire purposes,
except upon the authority of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 10) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 INTERFERENCE WITH UTILITY PROPERTY.
   All persons are forbidden to cover up or in any way interfere with any curb-
box, valve pit, valve box, or hydrant. In the case of any automobile or
vehicular accident involving the breaking or disconnection of a fire hydrant,
the car owner involved shall pay for the repair of same.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 11) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.12 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Water customers shall not connect water service to any other property,
trailer, or customer without the written consent of the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon the sale or transfer of ownership of any single-family addressed
lot located within the town’s corporate limits occurring on or after October 4,
2022, any water-only meter located thereon shall be prohibited and subject to
disconnection.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 10-4-2022) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 DISCONNECTION.
   Water service to any customer may be discontinued for the following reasons:
   (A)   Wasting or improper use after same has been called to his or her
attention;
   (B)   Refusal to pay bills within prescribed time;
   (C)   For interfering with or destroying any water appurtenances or
appliances belonging to the town; and/or
   (D)   For connecting water service to any other property, trailer, or
consumer without proper authorization.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 13)
§ 53.14 AVERAGING BILLS.
   In case of failure of any meter, the town may bill consumption on the
average of billings for the last six months before meter failed to register
properly.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 14)
§ 53.15 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The town may require from all applicants for service a cash deposit
equal to the estimated consumption by such applicant for a period of 60 days as
a guarantee against the nonpayment of bills for service; provided, however,
that, where the consumer is the owner of property or furnishes a written
guarantee from a property owner, the town shall waive such cash deposit. Such
guarantee shall not make guarantor liable in an amount exceeding the charge for
a period of 60 days. Such cash deposit minus any unpaid amounts for service
rendered consumers shall be returned upon the discontinuance of service.
   (B)   In all cases where the monthly consumption is in excess of that
covered by the deposit, the town may increase the amount of deposit required,
but such deposit shall not exceed an amount for any estimated 60-day service.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 15) (Ord. 99-5, passed 3-2-1999)
§ 53.16 SCHEDULE PUBLIC RECORD.
   A copy of the schedule of rates and charges and rules and regulations as
approved by the Town Council shall be on file and open to public inspection.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 16)
§ 53.17 EXTENSIONS.
   Main extensions to areas not previously served shall be made in conformity
to the “Rules and Standards of Service for Water Utilities” as approved by the
Public Service Commission of the state.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 17)
BACKFLOW REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS
§ 53.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSS-CONNECTION.
      (1)   Any physical connection or arrangement between two otherwise
separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the water system,
and the other contains water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems.
      (2)   The utility is specifically a separate potable water system.
   UTILITY. The municipal drinking water system owned by the town, a
municipality and political subdivision of the state, and operated by its public
town water utility.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, § 1) (Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 53.31 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any cross-connection.
   (B)   No connection shall be established where potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the utility may enter the supply or distribution system of the utility,
unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the utility and
by the State Department of Environmental Management in accordance with 327
I.A.C. 8-10.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, § 2) (Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-5-2019)
Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.32 INSPECTIONS.
   The utility is hereby authorized to make inspections of any premises served
by the utility where a cross-connection with the utility is suspected or
possible. The frequency of inspections and re-inspections shall be established
by the utility in its discretion, based on the potential hazards involved.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, § 3) (Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 53.33 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Pursuant to state law, including I.C. 36-1-6-2, and this subchapter, upon
presentation of credentials, authorized agents of the utility shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time, real property served by the utility to
inspect for cross-connections. On request by the utility, the owner, lessee, or
occupant of any such premises shall furnish to the utility any pertinent
information about and access to the pipes, valves, drains, inlets, outlets, and
piping systems on the premises. The refusal of access or the refusal of
requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of
cross-connections on the premises.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, § 4) (Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 53.34 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   The utility is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service to any premises wherein any connection in violation of this
subchapter exists, and a reasonable opportunity to correct the violation has
been given. The reasonableness of the opportunity to correct the violation is
fact-sensitive and will depend on the extent of the violation and the threat
posed to the public water supply. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection has been eliminated and the property is in
compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   Water service shall be discontinued only after notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the premises where a violation is found or
suspected to exist, and a reasonable opportunity to correct the violation has
been given. The reasonableness of the opportunity to correct the violation is
fact-sensitive and will depend on the extent of the violation and the threat
posed to the public water supply. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection has been eliminated and the property is in
compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, § 5)
   (B)   (1)   If the utility, in its sole discretion, determines that a cross-
connection or emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and
requires immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer and delivered to the consumer’s premises, then water
service to the premises may be immediately discontinued by the utility.
      (2)   Any person adversely affected by that discontinuance shall have the
opportunity to request a hearing within ten days of such emergency
discontinuance.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, § 6)
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 53.35 REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPAL BACKFLOW PREVENTERS.
   (A)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids and/or all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users shall install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow
preventer in the main water line serving each building on the premises. The
backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not
subject to flooding or freezing.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, § 7)
   (B)   Reduced pressure principal backflow preventers shall not be installed
below ground level.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, § 8)
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.36 SUPPLEMENTARY TO STATE REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter does not supersede the State Plumbing Code, IDEM Rule 327
I.A.C. 8-10, or any other applicable building code, but is intended to be
supplementary to them.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, § 9) (Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 53.37 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.
   In addition to IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10-4(c), from time to time, certain
specialized customer facilities will be required to install a backflow
prevention device, as determined by the utility and Council by amendment to
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, § 10) (Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 53.38 NOTICE.
   If, in the judgment of the utility, an approved backflow prevention device
is necessary for the safety of the public water system, the utility shall give
notice to the water consumer to install such an approved device immediately.
The water consumer shall, at the customer’s own expense, promptly install such
an approved device at a location and in a manner approved by the utility and
shall have inspections and tests made of that device.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, § 11) (Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-5-2019)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.50 RATES ESTABLISHED.
   For use of any service rendered by the waterworks, each user shall be
charged in an amount based upon a fee schedule, shown in §
53.51.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 53.51 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Metered rates.
      (1)   Monthly water volume rate per month. All gallons (per 1,000
gallons):
         (a)   First 2,000 gallons: $13.08;
         (b)   Next 3,000 gallons: $7.85;
          (c)   Next 15,000 gallons: $5.24; and
         (d)   Over 20,000 gallons: $3.30.
      (2)   Minimum charge per month.
5/8 inch water meter   1,500  $19.62
3/4 inch water meter   1,500  $19.62
1 inch water meter     5,150  $50.49
1-1/2 inch water meter 17,195 $113.55
2 inch water meter     -      156.97
3 inch water meter     -      313.94
4 inch water meter     -      490.54
6 inch water meter     -      981.08
 
      (3)   Hydrant rental per hydrant per annum. Fire hydrants (public and
private): $523.47.
      (4)   Customer fire protection fee per customer per month.
5/8 inch water meter   $5.02
3/4 inch water meter   $5.02
1 inch water meter     $13.13
1-1/2 inch water meter $25.12
2 inch water meter     $40.20
3 inch water meter     $80.39
4 inch water meter     $125.61
6 inch water meter     $251.22
 
      (5)   Bulk sales of water per load.
         (a)   Volume rate per load per 1,000 gallons: $22.44; and
         (b)   Minimum charge per load: $33.67.
   (B)   Tap fee for water.
      (1)   Per residential connection: $1,250; and
      (2)   Per nonresidential connection: actual cost of making the connection
but not less than $1,250.
   (C)   Customer availability fee. Per customer: $1,295.
   (D)   Service calls. Charge per call: $30.
   (E)   Returned check charge. Returned check charge is $35.
   (F)   Customer deposit. Deposit is $25.
   (G)   Late charge penalty. All bills 30 days or more delinquent: 10% of
bill.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to any other sanction provided by §§
53.30 through
53.38, a person who violates §§
53.30 through
53.38 shall, on the first offense, be fined $100. A person who violates §§
53.30 through
53.38 a second time will be fined the sum of $250. A person who violates §§
53.30 through
53.38 a third time, or more, shall be fined a sum not to exceed $2,500. The
foregoing shall be together with reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the
town in enforcing §§
53.30 through
53.38.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, § 12) (Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-5-2019)
CHAPTER 54: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Privies and public drains
Rules and Regulations
   
54.15   Definitions
   
54.16   Requirements for connection
   
54.17   Building sewers and connections
   
54.18   Use of public sewers
   
54.19   Pretreatment
   
54.20   Conditions of service
   
54.21   Unpolluted
   
54.22   Cooling water
   
54.23   Information
   
54.24   Strength of wastewater
   
54.25   Grease, oil, and sand
   
54.26   User’s responsibility
   
54.27   Compliance
   
54.28   Protection from damage
   
54.29   Power and authority of inspectors
   
54.30   Violations
   
54.31   Appeals
Rates and Charges
   
54.45   Definitions
   
54.46   User classes
   
54.47   Rates and charges
   
54.48   Applications
   
54.50   Deposits
   
54.51   Rate maintenance
   
54.52   Duty of office
   
54.53   Sanitary Sewer Fund Account
   
54.54   Accounting records
   
54.55   Enforcement
   
54.56   Dumping of wastes
   
54.57   Right to appeal
   
54.58   Special rate
   
54.59   No free service
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 PRIVIES AND PUBLIC DRAINS.
   (A)   Outdoor toilets.
      (1)   Prohibiting. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to construct, keep, or maintain any privy or outdoor toilet in the
town.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 6, Ch. 1, § 1)
      (2)   Nuisance. As an additional remedy to that provided by §
54.99(B), it is hereby ordained that any privy or outdoor toilet constructed,
kept, or maintained in violation of division (A) above be and is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and that the same may be abated by proper legal or
equitable proceedings which may be prosecuted by the town or by any interested
person.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 6, Ch. 1, § 3)
      (3)   Construction site sanitation.
         (a)   All sites on which construction is taking place shall be
provided with toilet facilities.
         (b)   Toilet facilities shall remain and be maintained in a sanitary
condition until all construction on the site has been completed.
   (B)   Public drains.
      (1)   Free flow liquids. It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any
individual, business, or corporation to obstruct the free flow of liquids into
or through any ditch or drain within the town limits, or to permit any existing
obstruction to remain therein.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 6, Ch. 2, § 1)
      (2)   Abatement. The town shall have full authority to order the
abatement and removal of any obstruction to the free flow of liquids into or
through any open ditch or drain within said town.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 6, Ch. 2, § 2)
(Ord. 2001-6, passed 1-8-2002) Penalty, see §
54.99
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 54.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/
l utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures with nitrification inhibition in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
five feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water
or other clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.)
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys storm waste or
other clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive the wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in
fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. (The term SUBSTANTIAL
DEGREE is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% to 30% are not considered SUBSTANTIAL.) Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered COMPATIBLE include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and greases or animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a state, physical such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   HOUSE SEWER. The part of the horizontal pipe which begins outside of the
wall of a building and connects the house drain with the main public sewer,
septic tank, or other disposal terminal.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard, and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from
storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters, or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished
from, infiltration.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average workday;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.; or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NH3N. The same as AMMONIA NITROGEN MEASURED AS NITROGEN. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
Standard Methods as defined herein.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. As defined in §
54.45.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewater to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to § 402 of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
CONCENTRATION is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group, or other activity.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher station.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface, and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions (including polluted
cooling water). The three most common types of SEWAGE are as follows.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes, including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment, and processes to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent of in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours’
concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
as the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Waterworks Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water, or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
town, or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations,
as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 1)
§ 54.16 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)   There is hereby established minimum requirements for the connection of
building or house sewers for the town.
   (B)   These requirements and definitions thereof are set out as follows.
      (1)   (a)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the
town and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary sewer of the town is hereby required at his expense
to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter, within 60 days after date of official notice to do so; provided
that, said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
         (b)   As a condition of connection to a public sewer, the owner(s)
shall grant a right of access easement building sewer to the town for the
purpose of repair and inspection.
      (2)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
      (3)   (a)   Roof leaders, surface drains, or ground water drains shall
not be connected to the sanitary sewer.
         (b)   Each house sewer and drainage system shall be independent of
that of any other building except where one building stands in the rear of
another building located on an interior lot, the house sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
house sewer.
         (c)   Where a public sewer is accessible in a street or alley to a
building or premises abutting thereon the liquid wastes from any plumbing
system in said building shall discharge into the public sewer unless otherwise
authorized by the governing body.
      (4)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
54.17(G), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this ordinance, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
      (5)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health
Officer.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 2) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.17 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   A sanitary gravity sewer connection permit shall not be granted to
homes or buildings where the lowest elevation to have gravity sanitary services
is less than one foot above the top of the manhole casting elevation of, the
first upstream or downstream manhole of the public sewer to which the
connection(s) are to be made. If these conditions are not met, the connection
shall be reviewed due to other circumstances. In any building, which has a
building drain that is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sanitary
sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an
approved means and discharged to the public sewer.
   (B)   (1)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the town. Before a permit
may be issued for excavating for plumbing in any public street, way, or alley,
the person applying for such permit shall have executed unto the town and
deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer a corporate surety in the sum of $100 per
square foot, conditioned that they will perform faithfully all work with due
care and skill, and in accordance with the laws, rules, and regulations
established under the authority or any ordinances of the town pertaining to
plumbing. This bond shall state that the person will indemnity and save
harmless the town and the owner of the premises against all damages, costs,
expenses, outlays, and claims of every nature and kind arising out of
unskillfulness or negligence on their part in connection with plumbing or
excavation for plumbing as prescribed in this subchapter.
      (2)   Such bond shall remain in force and must be executed for a period
of two years; except that, on such expiration it shall remain in force as to
all penalties, claims, and demands that may have accrued thereunder prior to
such expiration.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the said town. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the inspector. A permit and
inspection fees of $25 for residential or commercial building sewer permit and
$15 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (D)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify
the town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (E)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (F)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the said Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (G)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and S.P.C.F, Manual of Practice No. FD-9 shall apply.
   (H)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the said Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
four inches for single-family residential and all others shall be a minimum of
six inches. The slope of such six-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth
inch per foot.
   (I)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (J)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (K)   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of
any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be
sufficient to afford protection from frost. All excavations required for the
installation of a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise
approved by the said inspector. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in
accordance with current A.S.T.M. specifications; except that, no backfill shall
be placed until the work has been inspected by the inspector or his or her
representative.
   (L)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other source of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (M)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch designated for that property, if such branch is
available at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated “Y”
branch in the main sewer, shall be made only as directed by the said Inspector
and shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or
other applicable rules and regulation of the town or the procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the S.P.C.F. Manual of
Practice in No. FD-9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-
tight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installations.
   (N)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the said
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of
the said inspector or his or her representative. The applicant shall provide
access to all structures (and areas of structures) to the Inspector for the
purpose of establishing compliance with division (L) above.
   (O)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the said town.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 3) (Ord. 2003-3, passed 7-1-2003)
§ 54.18 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property with the town
or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm waters, surface water, ground
water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or
unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility.
   (C)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, root runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made to any sanitary or
storm sewer unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift
stations, force mains, and the sewage treatment plant including capacity for
BOD and suspended solids.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted water except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the NDPES
permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NDPES permit.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic (as described in § 307A of
the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a)) or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and one-half, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works or interfere with any
treatment process;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of nine and one-half;
      (8)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs,” as defined herein.
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters;
      (10)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case
solids greater than one-half inch(es) or one and one-quarter centimeter(s) in
any dimension;
      (11)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through;
      (12)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l;
      (13)   Petroleum based oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, synthetic oil
or products of mineral oil or natural gas origin greater than 50 mg/l; and/or
      (14)   Pollutants which may cause damage to the collection system.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 4) (Ord. 2018-15, passed 12-4-2018)
Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.19 PRETREATMENT.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) (40 C.F.R. part 403), and “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for
Analysis of Pollutants” (40 C.F.R. part 136) and all other requirements of 40
C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N, in addition to any more stringent requirements
established by the town and any subsequent state or federal guidelines and
rules and regulations.
   (A)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the
owner at his, her or their expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection
by the town to determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance
with applicable federal, state, and local laws and permits. The owner shall
maintain operating records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary
report of the character of the influent and effluent to show the performance of
the treatment facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
   (B)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (A) above, and which in
judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Require new industries or other large users with significant
increases in discharges, to submit information on wastewater quantities and
characteristics and obtain prior approval for discharges;
      (2)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
      (3)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage as defined;
      (4)   Require pretreatment screening/removal equipment, when the opinion
of the Superintendent, it is necessary for the proper handling of wastewater
containing excessive amounts of grease, oil, sand, chemicals, and other harmful
or deleterious substances. All screening/removal equipment shall be of a type
approved by the Superintendent and shall be located to be easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. Such equipment shall be inspected, cleaned, repaired,
and maintained by the user at his, her, or their expense;
      (5)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to avoid
any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works;
and
      (6)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating such wastes.
   (C)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
      (1)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his, her, or their
expense. When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his, her or
their expense, and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all
times. Agents of the town, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies, and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing.
      (2)   All measurements, test, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole, except for applications for
NPDES permits and report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with
rules and regulations adopted by the USEPA (40 C.F.R. part 136). In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and
property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.
      (3)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with the rate ordinance.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 5) (Ord. 2018-15, passed 12-4-2018)
§ 54.20 CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The customer shall install and maintain at his, her, or their expense
that portion of the service from said collector sewer to his, her, or their
premises. The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the authorized personnel of the town, but in no event shall the
diameter be less than four inches for single-family residential and all others
shall be six inches. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor.
   (B)   Applications may be cancelled and/or sewer service discontinued by the
town for any violation of any rule, regulation, or condition of service, and
especially for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation in the application as to the property or fixtures
to be serviced by the sanitary sewer system;
      (2)   Nonpayment of bills; or
      (3)   Improper or imperfect service pipes and fixtures or failure to keep
same in suitable state of repair.
   (C)   Bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the town
will be mailed to the customer at the address listed on the application, unless
a change of address has been filed in writing at the business office of the
town; and the town shall not otherwise be responsible for delivery of any bill
or notice, nor will the customer be excused from nonpayment of a bill or from
any performance required in said notice.
      (1)   Bills for sewer service are due and payable at the business office
of the town, or to any designated agent, on their date of issue. The past due
date shall be set by the rate ordinance now in effect. Bills will be dated and
mailed each month.
      (2)   All bills not paid on or before the past due date shall be termed
delinquent, and the town shall serve on the customer a written final notice of
said delinquency. If a delinquent bill is not paid in accordance with the
present rate ordinance, the water and/or sewer service to the user will be
subject to discontinuance, or other measures as state law will allow.
   (D)   Where the water or sewer service supplied to a customer has been
discontinued for nonpayment of delinquent bill, the town reserves the right to
request a nominal sum be placed on deposit with the town for the purpose of
establishing or maintaining any customer’s credit. The reconnection will not be
made until after all delinquent bills and other charges, if any, owed by the
customer to the town have been paid.
   (E)   The town shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruption
of service, and when such interruption occurs will endeavor to re-establish
service with the shortest possible delay. Whenever service is interrupted for
purpose of working on the collection system or the treatment equipment, all
consumers affected by such interruption will be notified in advance whenever it
is possible to do so.
   (F)   The town shall in no event be held responsible for claim made against
it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by reason of any
other interruption of the service caused by the breaking of machinery or
stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled to damages nor
have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
   (G)   The premises receiving sanitary sewer service shall, at all reasonable
hours, be subject to inspection by duly authorized personnel of the town.
   (H)   Special terms and conditions may be made where sewer service is used
by the town or community for public purposes such as public parks, and the
like.
   (I)   These rules may be changed or amended.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 6)
§ 54.21 UNPOLLUTED.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems, or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the state.
Where a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural sewer is not available, such
unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval
by the town.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 7)
§ 54.22 COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
54.21.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 8) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.23 INFORMATION.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows and characteristics.
Such measurements, tests, and analysis shall be made at the users’ expense. If
made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the
option of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 9)
§ 54.24 STRENGTH OF WASTEWATER.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic establishment
of charges provided for in the rate ordinance, from samples taken at the
aforementioned structure at any period of time and of such duration and in such
manner as the town may elect, or, at any place mutually agreed upon between the
user and the town. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be
assessed to the user at the option of the town. The results of routine sampling
and analysis by the user may also be used, for determination of charges after
verification by the town.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 10)
§ 54.25 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable water, sand,
and other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Where
installed, they shall be maintained by the owner, at his, her, or their
expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   (B)   They shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of
substantial construction, be gas-tight, water-tight, and equipped with easily
removable covers. Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors or
traps shall be maintained by the owner, at his, her, or their expense, in
continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 11)
§ 54.26 USER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, § 12) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.27 COMPLIANCE.
   All provisions of this subchapter and limits set herein shall comply with
any applicable state and/or federal requirements now or projected to be in
effect.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, § 13)
§ 54.28 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, § 14) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.29 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector, and other duly authorized employees of
the town, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
54.19(C)(2).
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 15)
§ 54.30 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this subchapter, except §
54.28, shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 16) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.31 APPEALS.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approved by the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the administrator of the
sewage system to the Town Council and that any decision concerning sewage
system of the Town Council may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction
under the appeal procedures provided for in the state’s Administrative
Adjudication Act, being I.C. Title 4, Articles 21.5 and 22.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 17) (Ord. 98-2, passed 3-3-1998)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 54.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). As defined in §
54.15.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Jamestown, or any duly authorized
officials acting on its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NH3N (AMMONIA NITROGEN). As defined in §
54.15.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. For the purpose of determining surcharges,
wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as follows:
      (1)   BOD not more than 250 mg/l;
      (2)   S.S. not more than 250 mg/l; and
      (3)   NH3N not more than 15 mg/l.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. As defined
in §
54.15.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all related federal, state, and local requirements. These COSTS include
replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges, and
strength charges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural, or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The indentures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SEWAGE. As defined in §
54.15.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   S.S. (SUSPENDED SOLIDS). As defined in §
54.15.
   TOWN. The Town of Jamestown acting by and through the Council.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment customers
by source, function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge
similarities (i.e., residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and
governmental in the user charge system).
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities, i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
user charge system.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or education function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (4)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and commercial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 1)
§ 54.46 USER CLASSES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user
and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class:
      (1)   Class 1 Residential;
      (2)   Class 2 Commercial;
      (3)   Class 3 Governmental/Institutional; and
      (4)   Class 4 Industrial.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency. Replacement costs, which are
recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected
service life of the sewage works equipment.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 2)
§ 54.47 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Establishment of rates. For the use of and the service rendered by
said sewage works, rates and charges shall be collected from the owners of each
and every lot, parcel of real estate, or building that is connected with the
town’s sanitary system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes, water, or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the
sanitary sewage system of the town. Such rates and charges include user
charges, debt service costs, excessive strength surcharges, and other service
charges, which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and
shall be in an amount determinable as follows.
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base except as
herein otherwise provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting the
charges for sewage service, the water meters shall be read monthly (or period
equaling a month).
      (2)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined as an average of single-family dwelling units (5,000 gallons per
month), except as herein provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once
each month (or period equaling a month). The rate shall include a base rate
plus an estimated treatment charge as outlined on the schedule of rates and
charges.
      (3)   For the service rendered to the town, said town shall be subject to
the same rates and charges provided in division (B) below.
      (4)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the
town shall charge the user the actual cost of monitoring, but less than $25 per
sample. This charge shall be reviewed and revised on the same basis as all
other rates and charges in this subchapter.
      (5)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewer system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except, as
it hereinafter provided in this section. The town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that such
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
      (6)   In the event a lot, parcel, or real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the town
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town and the water used hereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the town then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this section, or the owner other interested party shall at their
expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or
any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for
determining of sewer discharge.
      (7)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or liquids in the town’s sanitary
sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water supplied by
the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a user of water from
another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured by a meter
not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured and determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates or
charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at their expense, install
and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of
sewage discharge.
      (8)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate,
or buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other liquids into the
town’s sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of
water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in
each case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged
for each user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate, or building
served through the single water meter.
      (9)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at their expense, install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
      (10)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewerage system, either directly or
indirectly, are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a
single water meter, then in such case, billing shall be for a single service in
the manner set out elsewhere herein. A DWELLING UNIT shall be interpreted as a
room or rooms or any other space or spaces in which cooking facilities are
provided.
      (11)   In order that the rates and charges may reflect the costs of
providing service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not only
on the volume, but also the strength and character of the stronger-than-normal
domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of. The
town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all sewage
and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into the sanitary sewage
system, in such manner and by such method as the town may deem practicable in
order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central sampling
point available to the town at:
         (a)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a
biochemical oxygen demand of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid, suspended
solids in excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid or ammonia nitrogen in
excess of 15 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating
stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis.
            1.   Suspended solids. There shall be an additional charge of $0.39
per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids received in excess of 250
milligrams per liter of fluid.
            2.   BOD. There shall be an additional charge of $0.39 per pound of
biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of 250 milligrams per
liter of fluid.
            3.   NH3N. There shall be an additional charge of $2.56 per pound
of ammonia for NH3N received in excess of 15 milligrams per liter of fluid.
         (b)   The determination of suspended solids, five-day biochemical
oxygen demand, and ammonia nitrogen contained in the waste shall be in
accordance with the latest copy of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as written by the American Public Health
Association, the American Waterworks Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation, and in conformance with “Guidelines Establishing Test
Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants,” Regulation 40 C.F.R. part 136,
published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 3)
   (B)   Schedule of rates and charges. The schedule or sewer rates and charges
are displayed herein. Phase 1 rates and charges shall be effective for bills
sent after November 1, 2023. Phase 2 rates and charges shall be effective for
bills sent after November 1, 2024. Phase 3 rates and charges shall be effective
for bills sent after November 1, 2025.
      (1)   Monthly metered charges (per 1,000 gallons):
         (a)   Phase 1: $14.17;
         (b)   Phase 2: $14.61; and
         (c)   Phase 3: $15.13.
      (2)   Monthly base charge:
Meter Size Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3
Meter Size      Phase 1   Phase 2   Phase 3
5/8 to 3/4 inch $26.90    $27.73    $28.72
1 inch          $54.34    $56.02    $58.02
1-1/4 inch      $81.85    $84.37    $87.39
1-1/2 inch      $114.82   $118.36   $122.59
2 inch          $191.67   $197.58   $204.64
3 inch          $429.55   $442.79   $458.62
4 inch          $740.79   $763.61   $790.93
6 inch          $1,669.21 $1,720.63 $1,782.17
 
      (3)   Unmetered residential charge:
         (a)   Phase 1: $97.76;
         (b)   Phase 2: $100.77; and
         (c)   Phase 3: $104.37.
      (4)   Tap fees:
         (a)   Phase 1: $1,200;
         (b)   Phase 2: $1,200; and
         (c)   Phase 3: $1,200.
      (5)   System development charges:
Meter Size EDU Ratio Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3
Meter Size      EDU Ratio Phase 1  Phase 2  Phase 3
5/8 to 3/4 inch 1.0       $2,850   $2,850   $2,850
1 inch          2.5       $7,125   $7,125   $7,125
1-1/4 inch      4.1       $11,685  $11,685  $11,685
1-1/2 inch      5.8       $16,530  $16,530  $16,530
2 inch          10.0      $28,500  $28,500  $28,500
4 inch          40.0      $114,000 $114,000 $114,000
6 inch          91.0      $259,350 $259,350 $259,350
8 inch          162.1     $461,985 $461,985 $461,985
 
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 9-20-2018; Ord. 2023-14, passed - -2023)
§ 54.48 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for sewer service shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer
upon a form to be supplied by the town. The application shall state the name of
the applicant and the premises to be served. All applications filed shall be
accompanied by a fee of $1,200 tap-in fee payable to the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town, for the connection charge. In the event a user with sanitary sewer
service area desires to tap into the sewer system, the user shall be required
to pay for the cost to run his or her lateral to the main line of the sanitary
sewer, plus the payment of a $1,200 tap-in fee.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 4)
§ 54.49 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The owner of the premises served and the occupant thereof and the user
of the sanitary sewer service shall be jointly and severally liable for the
sewer service provided to said premises. A deposit of $75 shall be required
from all tenants. The deposit shall be applied to any bill for sewer service
delinquent more than 30 days. Upon the disconnection of the sewer service, any
balance of such deposit shall be returned to the applicant without interest.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office as which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 5)
§ 54.50 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Bills for the rates and charges established by the town shall be sent
monthly. All bills shall be payable on the first day of the month following the
period of service and shall be paid at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer at 421
East Main Street, Jamestown, IN during business hours or mailed to P.O. Box 165
Jamestown, IN 46147. If a bill is not paid by the fifteenth day of the month,
it shall be subject to the collection of a late payment charge and shall be
added thereto and collected therewith. Also, if bills are not paid by the
fifteenth day of the month, a written notice of discontinuance of service will
be mailed to the customer and, if not paid, the services will be disconnected
14 days after the town serves notice upon the customer of its intent to
terminate service or upon the twenty-ninth day of the month, whichever occurs
later, (if the fourteenth day after the town serves notice upon the customer of
its intent to terminate service or the twenty-ninth day of the month, whichever
is applicable, falls on a weekend or a holiday, the service will be
disconnected on the following business day). The water supply for the lot,
parcel of land, or premises affected shall be shut off and shall not be turned
on again except on payment in full of the delinquent bill, late payment charge,
and reconnection fee of $5.
   (B)   The service charges for sanitary sewer to customers not being supplied
water by a municipal water system will be due and payable on the first day of
each month. Penalties for nonpayment of bills will be provided for under
division (A) above.
   (C)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABILITY FEES. The charge to a user for a new connection to or an
additional wastewater discharge from an existing connection to the town’s sewer
works system and is charged as a pro rata cost of construction of all
interceptor sewer lines and appurtenances to serve the property of the
connecting user and is charged in return for the town making available to such
user the town’s sewage treatment system consisting of all facilities and
operations necessary to treat sewage of such user.
         EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU). The average use of 9,300 gallons of
wastewater per month over one calendar year. EDU determinations for wastewater
users other than single-family dwellings shall be determined in accordance with
327 I.A.C. Article 3.
      (2)   Where a project charge or recoupment agreement charge has been
established prior to the date of this subchapter, the project charge or
recoupment agreement charge shall apply. The cost of distribution systems
constructed after the date of this subchapter by someone other than the town
under a written agreement with the town may be credited against the
availability fee. The decision to allow such credit and the amount of the
credit shall be made solely at the discretion of the town.
   (D)   Payment of the availability fee and tap fee shall be made at the
following times.
      (1)   For new construction connections or additional water usage from
existing water connections requiring plat or plan approval, one-half of the
availability fee shall be paid at the time of signing the record plat or detail
plan approval, or conditional use approval. The remaining one-half of the
availability fee and the entire tap fee shall be paid before the issuance of a
building permit.
      (2)   For all existing connections in want of additional water usage or
new construction added not requiring plat or plan approval, the availability
fee shall be paid in full before the additional usage is provided for the
town’s water system.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. 2004-5, passed 10-5-2004;
Ord. 2009-02, passed 3-3-2009; Ord. 2024-05, passed 4-2-2024)
§ 54.51 RATE MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within one year, following the date on which this ordinance goes into effect
and at least annually thereafter. Such study shall include, but not be limited
to, an analysis of the costs associated with the treatment of excessive
strength effluents from industrial users, volume and delivery flow rate
characteristics attributed to the various users or user classes, the financial
position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its revenue to provide
reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance, replacements, debt service
requirements and capital improvements to the waste treatment systems. The town
shall adjust its rates and charges to reflect the results of the study.
Thereafter, on an annual basis, within a reasonable period of time following
the normal acting period, the town shall cause a similar study to be made for
the purpose of reviewing proportionality of the rates and charges for sewage
services on a continuing basis.
   (B)   Said studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town,
or by a firm of certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers
which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of
officers, employees, certified public accountants, or engineers as the town
shall determine to be best under the circumstances. The town shall, upon
completion of said study, revise and adjust the rates and charges, as necessary
in accordance therewith in order to maintain the proportionality and
sufficiency of the rates.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 7)
§ 54.52 DUTY OF OFFICE.
   It is hereby made the duty of the Town Clerk-Treasurer to render bills for
sewer service and all other charges in connection therewith and to collect all
monies due therefrom.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 8)
§ 54.53 SANITARY SEWER FUND ACCOUNT.
   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewer system shall
be paid to and held by the Clerk-Treasurer separate and apart from all other
funds of the town and all of said sums and all other funds and monies incident
to the operation of said system, as may be delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer,
shall be deposited in a separate fund designated the “Sanitary Sewer Fund
Account,” and said Clerk-Treasurer shall administer said fund in every respect
in a manner provided by the state statutes pertaining thereto.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 9)
§ 54.54 ACCOUNTING RECORDS.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper records, books, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewer system and at
regular annual intervals the Town Council shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewer system.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 10)
§ 54.55 ENFORCEMENT.
   The town shall make and enforce such ordinances, rules, and regulations as
may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of
the town’s sewerage system, pumping stations, and sewage conveyance system, for
the construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage
system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of such
rates and charges.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 11)
§ 54.56 DUMPING OF WASTES.
   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of waste into the town’s
sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation of
the sewage treatment works of the town or to require methods affecting
pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to
the sewage works and the Pretreatment Standards found in 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1,
subchapter N.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 12) (Ord. 2018-15, passed 12-4-2018)
§ 54.57 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval of the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Administrator of the
user charge to the Town Council and that any decision concerning user charges
of the Town Council may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction under
the appeal procedures provided for in the state’s Administrative Adjudication
Act, being I.C. Title 4, Articles 21.5 and 22.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 14)
§ 54.58 SPECIAL RATE.
   The Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable cost to
the sewage works can be determined, and such rate shall be limited to such
costs. Said contract shall be in compliance with Pub. Law Nos. 92-500 and 95-
217, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. The rules and regulations promulgated by
the town, after approval by the Town Council shall, among other things, provide
for an appeal procedure whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the administrator of the sewage system to the Town Council and that
any decision concerning sewage system of the Town Council may be appealed to a
court of competent jurisdiction under the appeal procedures provided for in the
state’s Administrative Adjudication Act, being I.C. Title 4, Articles 21.5 and
22.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 15) (Ord. 98-2, passed 3-3-1998)
§ 54.59 NO FREE SERVICE.
   The Council shall not grant free service or use of the sewage treatment
system to any person, group, or entity. It is not necessary for an area or
parcel of real estate to be annexed to the town to receive sewage treatment.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 16) (Ord. 98-1, passed 3-3-1998)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate the provisions of §
54.01 shall be guilty of an offense punishable by a fine of not more than $100.
Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 6, Ch. 1, § 2)
   (C)   Any person violating §
54.28 shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 14)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall continue any violation (other than a
violation of §
54.19(B), beyond the time limit provided for in §
54.57) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which any
such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person violating or suspected of violating §
54.19(B) shall be subjected to a penalty of $50 per month (or fraction thereof)
in which the violation occurs.
         (a)   A person may avoid payment of such penalty by consenting to an
inspection described in §
54.17(N), for the purpose of establishing compliance with §
54.19(B).
         (b)   A person consenting to such an inspection and found in violation
shall be given 90 days to comply with §
54.19(B) without being subject to penalty.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, § 16)
(Ord. 2001-6, passed 1-8-2002)
CHAPTER 55: STORM WATER
Section
   
55.01   Creation
   
55.02   Rates
§ 55.01 CREATION.
   The town hereby creates a storm water utility, and all matters concerning
the collection, disposal, and drainage of storm and surface water through said
storm water utility shall be governed by the Act.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 3, § 1) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 55.02 RATES.
   (A)   Storm water utility user fee. A storm water utility user fee shall be
imposed on each and every utility user within the town, including contributing
non-metered properties, and including those classified as non-profit or tax
exempt, for services and facilities provided by the storm water utility. This
user fee is deemed reasonable and necessary to pay for the repair, replacement,
planning, improvement, operation, regulation, and maintenance of the future
storm water system of the town.
   (B)   Storm water utility user fee structure. For the purposes stated
herein, there is hereby assessed a storm water utility user fee to each utility
user and contributing non-metered property within the corporate limits of the
town in an amount as determined below. For purposes of imposing the storm water
utility user fee, all lots and parcels within the town are classified as
either: residential; commercial; industrial; government; or church.
   (C)   Storm water rate and fee establishment procedure. Each utility user
and contributing non-metered property within the town shall be individually
subject to a storm water service charge. For each utility user and contributing
non-metered property that directly or indirectly contributes to the storm water
system of the town, the storm water service charge shall be a flat fee based
upon the classification of real estate as illustrated in division (B) above.
The Town Council, as supervisor and controller of the storm water utility
pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23 et seq. is authorized to establish the classification
of an individual property based upon its primary use. This storm water rate is
designed to recover the cost of rendering storm water service to the users of
the storm water system and shall be the basis for assessment of the town’s
storm water service charge. This rate is further designed to maintain adequate
reserves to provide for reasonably expected variations and the cost of
providing services, as well as variations in the demand for services.
   (D)   Rate structure and calculations. For the purposes stated in division
(A) above, there is hereby assessed a storm water service charge to each user
in the town who contributes directly or indirectly to the storm water system of
the town, in an amount defined below.
 
Property Classification           Monthly Rate
Church                            $10
Commercial                        $10
Contributing non-metered property $4.50
Government                        $10
Industrial                        $40
Residential                       $4.50
 
   (E)   Billing and payment. Bills or statements for the storm water utility
user fee shall be rendered monthly, in accordance with the regular sewage
utility billing cycle, by the utility billing division of the town for all
properties subject to the fee. Bills shall be payable at the same time and in
the same manner and subject to the same penalties as set forth for the sewer
utility. Any partial payment of a combined utility bill shall be applied first
to the storm water user fee. Any unpaid storm water utility user fees shall
constitute a lien on such property, except the liens of state, county, and
municipal taxes and shall be on a parity with the lien of such state, county
and municipal taxes. Such lien, when delinquent for more than 30 days, may be
foreclosed by the town in the manner provided by the laws of the state for the
foreclosure of mortgages on real property. For properties normally receiving
monthly utility bills for other town services, the storm water utility user fee
shall be included in the monthly sewage utility bill rendered for the
established customer. For properties not receiving monthly utility bills for
other town services, the bill or statement for the storm water utility user fee
shall be sent to the storm water utility user as determined from the tax rolls.
The Town Council may render annual, semi-annual, or monthly billings, to be
billed in arrears, to coincide with the property tax schedule, on such
properties if determined to be in the best interest of the town. The owner of a
property is ultimately responsible for all fees imposed under this chapter.
(Prior Code, Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 3, § 5) (Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-6-2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Alleys
   
70.02   Council authority over the location of traffic-control devices
§ 70.01 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Improvements. It is the policy of the town to encourage the
improvement of undeveloped alleys within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 1)
   (B)   Use. Any citizen of said town desiring to use any undeveloped alley
may do so by making the necessary improvements thereto by putting down a base
for passage of motor vehicles. Such base shall meet the standards established
for the construction of residential streets and alleys within the town. Such
base shall be approved by the Town Street Commissioner before being accepted
for maintenance by the Town Street Department.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 2)
   (C)   Assistance. The town will assist the improvement of said alleys by
directing the removal of obstructions therefrom and further will assume the
duty of maintenance thereof.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 3)
§ 70.02 COUNCIL AUTHORITY OVER THE LOCATION OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Town Council may, by resolution, locate or delete traffic-control
devices within the town limits as public safety requires. Such action by the
Council shall have the same force and effect as if incorporated within this
traffic code. An up-to-date list of the location of all traffic-control devices
within the town shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 3, § 4)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Traffic over paved streets
   
71.02   Traffic without wheels
Snow Emergencies
   
71.15   Short title
   
71.16   Definitions
   
71.17   Declaration of parking prohibitions on snow emergency routes
   
71.18   Announcement of declaration
   
71.19   Termination of parking prohibition
   
71.20   Signs to mark snow emergency routes
   
71.21   Stalled vehicle on snow emergency route
   
71.22   Removal and impoundment of vehicles
   
71.23   Recovery of impounded vehicles
   
71.24   Citation on vehicles in violation
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRAFFIC OVER PAVED STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any tractor,
traction engine, wagon, truck, or other vehicle over, along, across, or upon
any street or alley in the town, which street or alley has been paved with any
asphalt or hard surface paving material, unless such tractor, Caterpillar
tractor, dredging machine, traction engine, wagon, truck, or other vehicle
shall be equipped with wheels having smooth treads; provided, however, that, if
any such tractor, Caterpillar tractor, dredging machine, traction engine,
wagon, truck, or other vehicle shall be equipped with wheels having flanged
treads or cleats, or other protuberances on such treads, such person or persons
may operate any such vehicle by driving same across any such street after
preparing and laying a tract or tracks for such vehicle designed to prevent the
treads of the wheels from coming in contact with such pavement.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 TRAFFIC WITHOUT WHEELS.
   Any such person desiring to cross any such street as aforesaid with any such
vehicle not being equipped with wheels having smooth treads shall first apply
to the Town Council for permission to do so, and such crossing shall be made
under the personal supervision and direction of the said Town Council.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 3) Penalty, see §
71.99
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 71.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and be cited as the “Snow Emergency
Regulations and Routes.”
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 1)
§ 71.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SNOW EMERGENCY. A condition to be declared to be such by the Street
Commissioner upon the recommendation of the Police Department, or, in his or
her absence, his or her authorized representative.
   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE. Those streets or highways marked as such in accordance
with the provisions of this schedule.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 2)
§ 71.17 DECLARATION OF PARKING PROHIBITION ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Whenever the Street Commissioner, upon the recommendation of the
Police Department, finds, on the basis of a falling snow, sleet, or freezing
rain, that weather conditions will make it necessary that motor traffic be
expedited and that parking on designated town streets be prohibited or
restricted for snow plowing and other purposes, the Street Commissioner shall
put into effect a parking prohibition on parts of, or all, snow emergency
routes as necessary by declaring it in a manner prescribed by this schedule.
   (B)   (1)   Once in effect, a prohibition under this subchapter shall remain
in effect until terminated by announcement of the Street Commissioner, upon
recommendation of the Police Department, in accordance with the provision of
this schedule; however, any street area which has become substantially clear of
snow and ice from curb to curb for the length of the entire block shall be
automatically excluded therefrom.
      (2)   While the prohibition is in effect, no person shall park or allow
to remain parked any vehicle on any portion of a snow emergency rote to which
it applies. However, nothing in this schedule shall be construed to permit
parking at any time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of
law.
   (C)   Any provision of this subchapter which becomes effective by
declaration of the Street Commissioner or upon occurrence of certain weather
conditions shall, while temporarily in effect, take precedence over other
conflicting provisions of law normally in effect. However, it shall not take
precedence over provisions of law relating to traffic accidents, emergency
travel, authorized emergency vehicles, or emergency traffic directions by a
police officer.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 3) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 ANNOUNCEMENT OF DECLARATION.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner, upon the recommendation of the Police
Department, shall cause each declaration made by him or her pursuant to this
schedule to be publicly announced by means of broadcasts with a normal
operating range covering the town, and he or she may cause the declaration to
be further announced in newspapers of general circulation when feasible.
   (B)   Each announcement shall describe the action taken by the Street
Commissioner, including the time it became or will become effective, and shall
specify the streets or areas affected. A parking prohibition declared by the
Street Commissioner shall go into effect when designated. For purposes of this
schedule, the radio station over which the broadcast will be announced will be
station WIRE, Lebanon, Indiana. The Street Commissioner shall make or cause to
be made a record of each time and date when any declaration is announced to the
public in accordance with this schedule.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 4)
§ 71.19 TERMINATION OF PARKING PROHIBITION.
   Whenever the Street Commissioner finds that some or all of the conditions
which give rise to a parking prohibition in effect pursuant to the provisions
of this schedule no longer exist, he or she may declare the prohibition
terminated, in whole or in part, in a manner proscribed by this schedule effect
immediately upon announcement.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 5)
§ 71.20 SIGNS TO MARK SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   On each street designated by this schedule as a snow emergency route,
the Street Commissioner shall cause to be posted appropriated special signs.
   (B)   These signs shall be distinctive and uniform in appearance and shall
be plainly readable to person traveling on the street or highway.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 6)
Cross-reference:
   Designation of snow routes, see
Ch. 74, Sched. V
§ 71.21 STALLED VEHICLE ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled for any reason, whether or not in
violation of this schedule, on any part of a snow emergency route on which
there is a covering of snow, sleet, or ice, or on which there is a parking
prohibition in effect, the person operating the vehicle shall take immediate
action to have the vehicle towed or pushed off the roadway of the snow
emergency route, either into the first cross-street which is not a snow
emergency route, or onto the public space of a nearby driveway.
   (B)   No person shall abandon or leave his or her vehicle in the roadway of
a snow emergency route (regardless of whether he or she indicates by raising
the hood or otherwise that the vehicle is stalled), except for the purpose of
securing assistance during the actual time necessary to go to a nearby
telephone or to a nearby garage, gasoline station, or other place of assistance
and return without delay.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 7) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are authorized to remove or have
removed a vehicle from a street to the nearest garage or other place of safety,
or to a garage designated or maintained by the Police Department or otherwise
maintained by the town, under the following circumstances or conditions.
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a part of a snow emergency route on which
parking prohibition is in effect.
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a part of a snow emergency route on which
there is a covering of snow, sleet, or ice or on which there is a parking
prohibition in effect and the person who was operating the vehicles does not
appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of §
71.21.
      (3)   The vehicle is parked in violation of any parking ordinance or
provision of law and is interfering or about to interfere with snow removal
operations.
   (B)   Whenever an officer removes or has removed a vehicle from a street as
authorized in this subchapter, and the officer knows or is able to ascertain
from the registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner
thereof, the officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in
writing to the owner of the fact of the removal, the reasons therefor, and of
the place to which the vehicle is stored in a public garage, a copy of the
notice shall be given to the proprietor of the garage.
   (C)   Whenever an officer removes or has removed a vehicle from a street
under this subchapter and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name
of the owner, or for any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner
as provided in division (B) above, and in the event the vehicle is not returned
to the owner within a period of three days, then the officer shall immediately
send or cause to be sent a written report on the removal by mail to the Bureau
of Motor Vehicles whose duty it is to register motor vehicles, and shall file a
copy of the notice with the proprietor of any public garage in which the
vehicle may be stored. The notice shall include a complete description of the
vehicle, the date, time, and place from which it was removed, the reasons for
the removal, and the name of the garage or place where the vehicle is stored.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to keep a record of each
vehicle removed in accordance with this subchapter. The record shall include a
description of the vehicle, its license number, the date and time of its
location, the name and address of its owner and last known operator, if known,
its final disposition, and the parking violation involved.
   (E)   This subchapter shall be supplemental to any other provisions of law
granting members of the Police Department authority to remove vehicles.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 8)
§ 71.23 RECOVERY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall recover any vehicle removed in accordance with §
71.22(A), except as provided herein. Before the owner or person in charge of
the vehicle shall be allowed to recover it from the place where it has been
placed or impounded, he or she shall the place present to a member of the
Police Department evidence of this identity and right to possession of the
vehicle; sign a receipt for its return; and pay the reasonable towing and
storage charge.
   (B)   If the vehicle is not recovered within 15 days, abandoned vehicle
regulations shall apply.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 9)
§ 71.24 CITATION ON VEHICLES IN VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or left in
violation of any provision of this subchapter, and is not removed and impounded
for in this subchapter, the officer finding the vehicle shall take its
registration number and any other information displayed on the vehicle which
may identify its user, and shall conspicuously affix a traffic summons.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 10)
   (B)   In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in a place
or in a condition in violation of any provision of this subchapter, proof that
the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked or left in
violation of a provision of this subchapter together with proof that the
defendant named in the complaint was at the time the registered owner of the
vehicle, shall constitute prima facie evidence that the defendant was the
person who parked of left the vehicle in violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 11)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §§
71.15 through
71.24 shall be subject to fines set forth by the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 13) (Ord. 99-7, passed 5-4-1999)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parallel parking
   
72.02   Designated parking
   
72.03   Sidewalk or alley parking
   
72.04   Disregard of parking signs
   
72.05   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
§ 72.01 PARALLEL PARKING.
   When parked on roadway with a curb, the right-hand wheels of a vehicle must
be within 12 inches of the curb and parallel to it. The exception to this
provision shall be motorcycles, which shall be parked with the rear wheel at
the curb.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-21-16-7
§ 72.02 DESIGNATED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park a vehicle
at any point which has been designated for parking for the Town Marshal, the
Fire Department, or any other proper legal authority.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 SIDEWALK OR ALLEY PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park on any sidewalk or in any alley within the
limits of the town, or parking so as to block any sidewalk, alley, or driveway
within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 9) (Ord. 91-2, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 72.04 DISREGARD OF PARKING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to disregard any no parking sign or park in a
designated no parking zone within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 10) (Ord. 91-2, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 72.05 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing
the parking or standing of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the notice to appear was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of such violation, the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute prima facie evidence that such registered owner was the person who
parked such vehicle at the time and place for the time during which such
violation occurred.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 13) (Ord. 99-6, passed 4-6-1999)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Skateboards
Golf Carts, ATVs, and UTVs
   
73.15   Purpose
   
73.16   Definitions
   
73.17   Manner of operation
   
73.18   Prohibition of ATVs
   
73.19   Compliance with all laws required
   
73.20   Permit and documentation required
   
73.21   Standard equipment regulation
   
73.22   Proof of liability insurance
   
73.23   State registration requirements
   
73.24   Times and conditions of operation
   
73.25   Operation regulations
   
73.26   Sidewalks and adjacent areas
   
73.27   Unlawful and careless operation
   
73.28   Trespassing on private property
   
73.29   Exceptions
   
73.30   Permitted and prohibited roadways
   
73.31   Town liability
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 SKATEBOARDS.
   (A)   For the safety of the citizens of the town and the business patrons,
the riding of skateboards will not be allowed in the business district.
   (B)   The business district of the town shall be described as follows:
      (1)   Mill Street to the north;
      (2)   Jefferson Street to the south;
      (3)   Darlington Street to the west; and
      (4)   Walnut Street to the east.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 5, Ch. 3, § 1) Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS, ATVS, AND UTVS
§ 73.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a Golf Cart and UTV Ordinance
within the town to ensure the safety and the welfare of persons operating such
vehicles within the town.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 73.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). A four or six wheel vehicle with a straddle seat
and handlebars.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license issued to operate a motor vehicle issued
by the state or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart or UTV
in an amount not less than required by state law for a motor vehicle operated
on public roadways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and is not capable of exceeding
speeds of 25 mph.
   ROADWAYS. Includes all public streets, alleys, and roads.
   UTILITY VEHICLE (UTV). A four-, six-, or eight-wheel vehicle with a non-
straddle seat and without handlebars.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 73.17 MANNER OF OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a golf cart or utility vehicle (UTV) in the town,
except as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.18 PROHIBITIONS OF ATVS.
   This subchapter does not apply to ATVs, as defined herein, as those vehicles
are prohibited on town roadways. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed
to permit ATVs to be operated on town roadways under any circumstances.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS REQUIRED.
   Any and all applicable state laws regarding motor vehicles shall be adhered
to, including the possession and use of alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs.
Should a conflict exist between the provisions in this subchapter and
applicable state law requirements, the more restrictive provision applies.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.20 PERMIT AND DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No golf cart or UTV shall be operated in the town unless a permit from
the Town Marshal or his or her appointee has been issued to the owner of the
golf cart or UTV. The permit received from the town must be with the golf cart
or UTV whenever it is operated upon town roadways. The permit is valid for one
calendar year from date of issuance and must be renewed annually. Prior to
issuance or renewal of permit, the golf cart or UTV shall be inspected by the
Town Marshal to ensure that the vehicle complies with the requirements set
forth by the town and the state. A permit may not be issued if, in the previous
12 months, the applicant was cited and convicted of violating any provision of
this subchapter or other applicable state law.
   (B)   Golf cart and UTV owners must complete a registration form, waiver of
liability form, and provide a copy of proof of liability insurance prior to the
golf cart or UTV being inspected. The completed forms and proof of insurance
will be maintained by the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV in the town without first
obtaining a proper permit or completing the required paperwork pursuant to this
section will be subject to all state laws in addition to being in violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.21 STANDARD EQUIPMENT REGULATION.
   All golf carts and UTV shall be equipped with all equipment required by the
state, including the following:
   (A)   Adequate brakes capable of producing deceleration at 14 feet per
second on level ground at a speed of 20 mph;
   (B)   DOT approved slow moving vehicle signs mounted in an unobstructed
fashion to the rear of the golf cart or slow moving (less than 30 mph) UTV;
   (C)   A golf cart must present one of the following.
      (1)   The golf cart shall have a safety tag on a staff holder displaying
such flag at least five feet above the surface of the street.
      (2)   The golf cart shall display an SAE approved amber or amber/clear
flashing beacon, visible from 360 degrees, with a flash rate of not less than
80 fpm and a minimum candlepower of 75,000 that is activated whenever the
vehicle is on the roadway.
   (D)   The golf cart or UTV shall be equipped with a rear view mirror;
   (E)   Golf carts and UTVs shall be equipped with a manufacturer’s serial
number plate;
   (F)   Golf carts and UTVs shall have front and rear reflectors; and
   (G)   Golf carts and UTVs shall have a functioning rear brake light which is
visible from a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 PROOF OF LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   As part of the permit process, the owner of the golf cart or UTV must
provide proof of liability insurance before a permit will be issued. The proof
of liability insurance must be kept with the golf cart or UTV whenever said
golf cart or UTV is in operation on town roadways. Proof of liability insurance
must be provided annually in order to renew the golf cart or UTV permit.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 STATE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any UTV shall be appropriately registered and titled with the state as
required by state law.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.24 TIMES AND CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts and UTVs may be operated during the following times.
   (A)   Golf carts and UTVs may be driven on the town roadways only from
sunrise to sunset unless the golf cart is equipped with two headlamps (one on
each side of the front) and two operating taillights with brake lights (one on
each side of the vehicle) which are visible from a distance of 500 feet or the
UTV is equipped with one headlamp and one taillight.
   (B)   Golf carts and UTVs are prohibited on roadways during inclement
weather when visibility is reduced or impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other
conditions or at any other time there is insufficient visibility to clearly see
a person or vehicle at a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.25 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply to the operation of a golf cart or UTV
within the town.
   (A)   Golf carts and UTVs will adhere to all traffic flow patterns and will
operate on the right side of the roadway.
   (B)   (1)   Operators of golf carts and UTVs will adhere to all rules of the
road applicable to motorized vehicles as set forth by the State Bureau of Motor
Vehicles. A golf cart of UTV may only be operated by persons who are:
         (a)   At least 18 years of age and possess a valid driver’s license in
the case of a UTV;
         (b)   At least 16 years of age and possess a valid driver’s license in
the case of a golf cart; and
         (c)   If the operator is over the age of 16 years old, does not have a
license, and qualifies for handicapped parking, he or she may operate a golf
cart on public roadways upon the submission of a certificate signed by a
licensed physician that the driver is capable and able to operate a motorized
golf cart on the roadways designated. The operator must have a certificate and
handicap parking tag in his or her possession while operating a golf cart.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         UNDERAGE OPERATORS. A person under the age of 18 years old in the case
of UTV, or a person under the age of 16 years old in the case of golf carts,
may not legally drive the applicable vehicle on any town roadways.
   (C)   All riders in the golf cart or UTV must remain seated at all times.
   (D)   (1)   The number of occupants in a golf cart or UTV shall be limited
to the number of adult persons for whom individual seating is installed and
provided on the golf cart or UTV.
      (2)   The operator and all occupants shall be seated and no part of the
body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside the perimeter of the golf
cart or UTV while the golf cart or UTV is in motion.
   (E)   Anyone under the age of 18 who is riding on a UTV shall wear a helmet
that meets the standards established by the United States Department of
Transportation under 49 C.F.R. § 571.218 as in effect January 1,1979 in
accordance with I.C. 9-18.1-14-11.
   (F)   Children in golf carts or UTVs must be seated and not held. Children
three years and under must be in an approved car seat that is properly secured.
   (G)   Operators of golf carts or UTVs must indicate and signal intention to
turn either using vehicle-equipped turn signal system or by using appropriate
hand signals.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.26 SIDEWALKS AND ADJACENT AREAS.
   (A)   No golf cart or UTV shall be operated upon the public sidewalk, nor
shall they be operated upon that portion of the street located between the curb
line and the sidewalk or property line referred to as the “parking lane,”
except for the purposes of crossing the same to a public street at 90 degrees
which is authorized by this subchapter and Indiana Code.
   (B)   A total of two golf carts or UTV may use one parking space, provided
they are both able to park within the parking space lines.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.27 UNLAWFUL AND CARELESS OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart or UTV in a careless, reckless, or
negligent manner so as to endanger the person or property of another or to
cause injury or damage thereto.
   (B)   No person shall operate a golf cart or UTV in excess of the posted
speed limit of town roadway.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.28 TRESPASSING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Golf carts and UTVs shall not be operated on any private or town-owned
property without the permission and written consent of the property owner or
manager.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.29 EXCEPTIONS.
   All town employees are exempt from the above rules and regulations when
using a golf cart or UTV for town business. However, all town employees shall
at all times operate the golf cart or UTV in a safe manner and shall be subject
to all applicable state laws and the requirements in §
73.26. Exceptions may be made to the rules and regulations contained herein at
the discretion of the Town Marshal during town parades, special events,
festivals, and emergencies.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 73.30 PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Golf carts and UTVs may be operated on all town roadways, subject to
the restrictions contained herein.
   (B)   Golf carts and UTVs are prohibited on the following roadways except as
to cross said roadways in compliance with the Indiana Code:
      (1)   State Road 75 (Lebanon Street);
      (2)   State Road 234; and
      (3)   U.S. 136 (Main Street).
   (C)   Exceptions to division (B) above may be as follows, subject to the
approval of the Town Marshal:
      (1)   During times of emergency wherein traditional vehicles cannot
traverse roadways normally;
      (2)   During sanctioned town events which feature a parade or other
activity utilizing non- traditional vehicles; and
      (3)   For emergency, utility, or police personnel.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.31 TOWN LIABILITY.
   (A)   The town, Town Council, Town Clerk-Treasurer, Town Police Department,
Town Marshal, and all town employees will assume no liability after issuing of
said golf cart or UTV permit.
   (B)   The town cannot be held responsible for any operator actions while
operating the golf cart or UTB on town roadways, alleys, or properties.
   (C)   The town cannot be held responsible for any death, injury, property
damage, or other damage which may occur from operator error, equipment
malfunction, or manufacturer defect of the golf cart or UTV on any street,
roadway, alley, or property of the town.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §
73.01 will result in a fine as stated in the Ordinance Violations Bureau’s
fines; $25 first offense; $50 second; and $75 third offense.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 5, Ch. 3, § 1)
   (C)   (1)   Any act constituting a violation of §§
73.15 through
73.31 or a failure to comply with any of its requirements shall subject the
offender, upon conviction or admission, to a fine not to exceed $250. Each
violation witnessed of any provision of §§
73.15 through
73.31 is violated shall constitute a separate offense, and the offender will be
charged an additional $25 per day plus any applicable court costs. All fees
shall be made payable to the town and paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Any underage operator found to be in violation of §§
73.15 through
73.31 may be remanded to the Boone County Juvenile Court.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 3-7-2006; Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-2021)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Parking prohibited
      
III.   Preferential streets and alleys
      
IV.   Snow emergencies
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Darlington Street shall be and is hereby designated as a one-way, southbound
street from its intersection with Main Street to its end at Jefferson Street.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   There will be no parking on South Darlington Street between Main
Street and Jefferson Street in the town.
      (2)   Violation of this division (A) shall be an offense punishable by a
fine of not less than $1 and not more than $25.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 5)
   (B)   (1)   This division (B) does not apply to a person who drives a
vehicle that becomes disabled while on the paved, improved, or main traveled
part of a street in a manner and to the extent that it is impossible to avoid
stopping and temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle on the street.
      (2)   A person may not stop, park, or leave standing an attended or
unattended vehicle upon the paved or main traveled part of a street, except
that section of South High Street from the point where it narrows south to its
intersection with State Road 234.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 12)
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicles on
either side of South High Street from a point beginning at the alleyway between
105 and 121 South High Street and continuing south to the intersection of South
High Street with State Road 234.
      (2)   Violation of this division (C) shall be an offense punishable by a
fine of $25 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense, and, at the
third and any subsequent offenses, the Town Police Department has the
discretion to tow the vehicle at the owner’s expense and fine the offender $75.
Each day a violation of this division (C) exists shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 4-6-1999; Ord. 2021-05, passed 11-2-2021)
SCHEDULE III. PREFERENTIAL STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Right-of-way. The following streets are hereby declared to be
preferential streets over certain named intersecting streets and alleys. The
traffic thereon shall have the right-of-way over traffic on such named
intersecting streets and alleys.
      (1)   North Darlington Street is preferential over the following
intersecting streets and alleys:
         (a)   Columbia Street;
         (b)   Ash Street;
         (c)   Elm Street (east and west);
         (d)   Mill Street (east and west); and
         (e)   All alleys intersecting with North Darlington Street.
      (2)   Elm Street in preferential over the following intersecting streets
and alleys:
         (a)   Stockton Street;
         (b)   North High Street;
         (c)   North Cemetery Street; and
         (d)   All alleys intersecting with Elm Street.
      (3)   Mill Street is preferential over the following intersecting streets
and alleys:
         (a)   Stockton Street; and
         (b)   Second Street.
      (4)   Stockton Street is preferential over the following intersecting
streets and alleys:
         (a)   Brush Street;
         (b)   Oak Street; and
         (c)   All alleys intersecting with Stockton Street.
      (5)   North High Street is preferential over the following intersecting
streets and alleys:
         (a)   Brush Street (east and west);
         (b)   Oak Street;
         (c)   Mill Street (east and west); and
         (d)   All alleys intersecting with North High Street.
      (6)   Second Street is preferential over the following intersecting
streets and alleys:
         (a)   Jefferson Street traffic traveling east; and
         (b)   All alleys intersecting with Second Street.
      (7)   First Street is preferential over all intersecting alleys south of
U.S. 136.
      (8)   South Darlington Street is preferential over all alleys
intersecting with South Darlington Street.
      (9)   South High Street is preferential over the following intersecting
streets and alleys:
         (a)   Jefferson Street; and
         (b)   All alleys intersecting with South High Street.
      (10)   Walnut Street is preferential over the following intersecting
streets and alleys:
         (a)   Jefferson Street;
         (b)   Vine Street; and
         (c)   All alleys intersecting Walnut Street.
      (11)   Lowery Street is preferential over the following intersecting
streets and alleys:
         (a)   Walnut Street; and
         (b)   Hillview Drive.
      (12)   Jefferson Street is preferential over the following intersecting
streets and alleys:
         (a)   First Street;
         (b)   South Darlington Street; and
         (c)   All alleys intersecting with Jefferson Street.
      (13)   The alley running parallel to and north of U.S. 136 is
preferential over the one-way alley bordering the west boundary of the town
park.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 3, § 1)
   (B)   Intersection passage. All traffic approaching the named preferential
streets from such intersecting streets and alleys shall, before proceeding,
come to a complete stop and permit traffic on the preferential streets to pass
through the intersection.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 3, § 2)
   (C)   Penalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of this schedule
shall be fined in any sum not less than $1 and not more than $100.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 3, § 3)
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 6-2-2009)
SCHEDULE IV. SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The following streets or portions of streets within the town are
designated as snow emergency routes:
      (1)   South High Street from State Road 234 to Main Street;
      (2)   North High Street from Main Street to Elm Street;
      (3)   North Darlington Street from Main Street to end of corporation
limits;
      (4)   Elm Street from Darlington Street to North Lebanon Street;
      (5)   Mill Street from North Second to Lebanon Street;
      (6)   West Jefferson Street from South Second Street to South High
Street;
      (7)   East Jefferson Street from South High Street to South Walnut
Street; and
      (8)   South Second Street from West Jefferson Street to West Main Street.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 12)
   (B)   Violations of this schedule shall be subject to fines set forth in the
Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Prior Code, Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, § 13)
(Ord. 99-7, passed 5-4-1999; Ord. 2009-4, passed 6-2-2009)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   NOISE CONTROL
      
95.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Jurisdiction
   
90.03   Basic responsibilities and duties of animal owners
   
90.04   Cruelty, abuse, and neglect
   
90.05   Restraint of animals
   
90.06   Restrain of female domestic animals in estrus
   
90.07   Permanent identification of a domestic animal required
   
90.08   Vaccinations and proof of vaccination
   
90.09   Abandonment
   
90.10   Vicious animals
   
90.11   Animals bites and quarantine
   
90.12   Public nuisance animals
   
90.13   Animals sacrifice
   
90.14   Vehicles and animals
   
90.15   Stray animals
   
90.16   Injured animals
   
90.17   Deceased animals
   
90.18   Livestock and fowl
Licensing of Dogs
   
90.30   Town limits
   
90.31   Charge
   
90.32   Register
   
90.33   Running at large
   
90.34   Nuisance
   
90.35   Leash and control
   
90.36   Muzzled dogs
   
90.37   Custody of animals
Licensing of Cats
   
90.50   Town limits
   
90.51   Charge
   
90.52   Register
   
90.53   Running at large
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Placed or left upon public property or upon the private property
of another without the express permission of the owner, custodian, or tenant of
the property or is unattended or uncared for.
   ANIMAL. A member of the animal kingdom, except humans, dead or alive,
domestic or not.
(I.C. 15-17-2-3)
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER (ACO). A person who is authorized to implement and
enforce county animal ordinances and state statutes and as defined in state
statutes and is a sworn law enforcement officer, as defined under state law.
   ANIMAL FIGHTING CONTEST. Any event or activity facilitated by a person or
persons in which animals engage in violent, aggressive, or otherwise harmful
conduct with another animal in a form that is not generally associated with the
species under normal circumstances.
   ANIMAL CARE FACILITY. An animal control center, an animal shelter, a humane
society, or another animal impounding facility that has as its purpose the
humane care and treatment of animals.
(I.C. 6-9-39-7)
   AT LARGE. Leaving or straying away from the land owned, rented, or leased by
the owner or custodian of the animal or not being kept in direct control of an
owner or possessor of the animal. AT LARGE does not include the use of a dog
under the supervision of a person to hunt, chase, or tree predatory animals or
game birds, or the use of a dog to control or protect livestock or in other
related agricultural activities.
   BEAT. An intentional or knowing act of applying unnecessary physical force
or contact in a manner which has as its main objective inducing pain,
inflicting harm, or causing discomfort in a manner that could not reasonably be
described as an appropriate means of discipline.
   BITE. A wound inflicted by an animal tooth causing a tear, puncture,
abrasion, or other marking on the skin in which blood is visible or the skin is
damaged.
   CAT. All domestic members of the feline family.
   CATTERY. Any place in which three cats or more are kept for the purpose of
breeding or boarding for financial compensation.
   COLONY. A group of one or more feral cats, whether unmanaged or managed.
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   A person who is in temporary direct control of an animal as
authorized by the owner of the animal or is a law enforcement officer acting
within his or her scope of duties to impound or possess an animal.
      (2)   This may include, but is not limited to, a veterinarian, an animal
grooming facility, a law enforcement officer, or animal control officer.
   CRUELTY. Any intentional or knowing act or omission whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain, suffering, or death is caused, permitted, or allowed to
continue where there is reasonable remedy or relief.
   DIRECT CONTROL. Under the immediate physical restraint of the owner or
custodian of the animal or within the confines of land owned, rented, or leased
by the owner or custodian of the animal.
   DOG. All domestic members of the canine family.
   DOMESTIC. Generally and commonly known to live in or about the habitation of
humans.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An animal kept as a pet or used for service, protection,
comfort, companionship, hobby, or similar purpose.
   FERAL CAT. Any cat that has no apparent owner or identification and is wild,
untamed, unsocialized, unmanageable, or unable to be approached or handled.
   HARBOR. Performing acts of providing care, shelter, protection, restraint,
refuge, food, or nourishment.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Boone County Health Department.
   HUMANE TRAP. A device or procedure to contain or dispose of an unwanted
animal, as permitted by law, in a way that provides minimal discomfort or
unnecessary pain to the animal.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an animal control officer or other person whom is empowered to act by law
and transporting it to an animal care facility or humane society.
   KENNEL. Any place in which three dogs or more are kept for the purpose of
breeding or boarding for financial compensation.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An appointed officer or employee hired by and on
the patrol of the state, or any of the state’s political subdivisions, as
defined under state law, who is granted lawful authority to enforce all or some
of the penal laws of the state, and who possesses, with respect to those laws,
the power to effect arrests for offenses committed in the officer’s or
employee’s presence.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, bison, horses, mules, poultry, or
other animals that are commonly associated with activities associated with
farming or food production.
(I.C. 15-17-2-47)
   MANAGED COLONY. A colony of feral cats that are registered with a humane
society or designee and is maintained by a colony caretaker using trap, neuter,
and return methodology.
   MUTILATE. An intentional or knowing act of applying unnecessary physical
force or contact in a manner which has as its main objective creating changes
to the physical appearance of the animal in a manner that could not reasonably
be described as an appropriate and common modification for the animal species
involved. Spaying or neutering, or any other procedure that changes an animal
does not constitute MUTILATION if the procedure is done in a certified facility
by a person certified to perform the procedure or is a common or accepted
practice in the industry specific to the animal.
   NEGLECT. An intentional or knowing act or omission whereby an animal is
deprived of adequate and reasonable food, water, shelter, exercise, air, or any
other resource commonly associated with the health and wellbeing of the
particular animal species involved.
   OFFICE. The Boone County Sheriff’s Office.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, harbors, keeps, feeds, maintains, or has lawful
possession of an animal; however, this shall not include a person hired or
acting as custodian of the animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, firm, association,
partnership, or corporation.
   QUARANTINE. A place or period of isolation as to prevent cross-
contamination, infection, or other hazardous events as determined by a law
enforcement officer, animal control officer, Health Department, the humane
society, or any other agent permitted by law.
   SECURE RESTRAINT. A structure or device that maintains physical control of
the animal; this can include, but is not limited to, a fence of adequate design
and strength, a tethering device which is securely attached to the animal at
one end and a fixed object at the other end, or a cage. An “invisible fence,” a
fence of inadequate design and strength, or other structures or devices that
cannot maintain physical control of the animal under normal circumstances are
not considered a SECURE RESTRAINT.
   SPAY/NEUTER. An operation done to a female or male animal to prevent the
conception of offspring.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner, or has escaped restraint and is running at large.
   VICIOUS.
      (1)   Known to bite, attack, or injure human beings, domestic animals,
companion animals, or livestock without provocation.
      (2)   No animal may be declared VICIOUS if a threat, injury, or damage
was sustained by a human being who, at the time, was committing a willful
trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the
animal or was teasing, tormenting, abusing, assaulting, or otherwise provoking
the animal, or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have teased,
tormented, abused, assaulted, or otherwise provoked the animal involved, or was
committing or attempting to commit a crime.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 1)
§ 90.02 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Boone County Board of Commissioners finds that the terms and
conditions of this chapter are in the best interests of all citizens and
animals of county. Therefore, this chapter shall be in full force and effect in
both the incorporated and unincorporated part of the county unless or until a
municipality within in the county adopts an ordinance prohibiting enforcement
of this chapter within the boundaries of the municipality.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, if a municipality (city or town) has
reorganized with a township, pursuant to I.C. 36-1.5-1-1 et seq., the term
INCORPORATED means areas within the former city or town limits and any platted
subdivision.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2A)
§ 90.03 BASIC RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF ANIMAL OWNERS.
   (A)   Every owner of every domestic animal kept in the county, whether in
the care of the owner or a custodian, shall see that such animal:
      (1)   (a)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and is not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement.
         (b)   The owner or custodian of the animal shall regularly and as
often as needed maintain all animal areas to prevent odor or health and
sanitation problems;
      (2)   Shall be provided with proper amounts of food that is nutritionally
appropriate for the species to maintain good health;
      (3)   Shall have fresh drinking water;
      (4)   Shall have ventilation and appropriate shelter from the elements;
      (5)   Is able to exercise and move about freely, as needed by the
species;
      (6)   Shall not be tethered by use of a choke or pronged collar nor by
any rope, chain, or cord directly attached to the animal’s neck in lieu of an
appropriate collar, nor by a leash less than 12 feet in length or of such
unreasonable weight as to prevent the animal from moving about freely;
      (7)   Is protected against abuse, cruelty, neglect, torment, overload,
overwork, or any other mistreatment;
      (8)   Is provided with reasonable, necessary medical care or attention
and maintains current on inoculations outlined by this chapter or by state law;
and/or
      (9)   Is maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and
local laws and regulations regarding animal care and control.
   (B)   Any person who witnesses a violation of this section shall notify the
Animal Control Officer or local law enforcement within 24 hours.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2B) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 CRUELTY, ABUSE, AND NEGLECT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to commit, or otherwise participate
in, acts of animal cruelty. ACTS OF CRUELTY shall include, but is not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   An act of maliciously killing, abusing, maiming, or disfiguring any
animal or willfully or maliciously administering poison to any animal or
exposing any poisonous substance with the intent that the poisonous substance
shall be taken and consumed by such animal (does not include the killing of
animals for the protection of persons or property);
      (2)   An act of overloading, torturing, tormenting, depriving an animal
of its necessary sustenance or shelter, beating, mutilating, killing, or
carrying an animal in or upon a vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner;
      (3)   An act of failing to supply an animal with wholesome food and
water, keeping an animal in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and
ventilation, or abandoning any animal to die;
      (4)   An act of owning, possessing, keeping, or training an animal with
the intent that such animal shall be engaged in an animal fighting contest;
      (5)   Building, maintaining, making, or keeping a pit on premises owned
or occupied by the person for the purpose of an exhibition of an animal
fighting contest;
      (6)   Encouraging, instigating, promoting, or assisting in an exhibition
of an animal fighting contest; or
      (7)   Charging admission, being an assistant, or promoting in an
exhibition of an animal fighting contest.
   (B)   Any Animal Control Officer or other officer empowered to act by law
may impound any animal pursuant to or during an investigation under this
chapter.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing as permitted
by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the state’s Department
of Natural Resources.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of commercially sold
poisons or humane traps for the control of rats, mice, groundhogs, moles, or
other similar rodents, raccoons, possums, or other pests, as long as the person
using the poisons uses reasonable care to ensure that neither domestic animals,
nor livestock, are exposed to the poisons.
   (E)   If the number of domestic animals being kept or harbored by an owner
or custodian jeopardizes the health or welfare of the animals, some or all of
the animals may be impounded, and the Animal Control Officer may pursue any
remedies provided under this chapter.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2C) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Animals sacrifice, see §
90.13
   Injured animals, see §
90.16
§ 90.05 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any domestic
animal to allow such animal to run at large, whether wearing a collar and tags
or not, within any incorporated area of the county.
      (2)   Any and all such domestic animals found at large may be immediately
impounded by the Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement officer and the
officers may pursue the animal onto private property to effect capture of the
animal.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any domestic
animal that typically resides within any incorporated area of the county to
ensure that the animal is kept under secure restraint and that reasonable care
and precautions are taken to prevent the animal from leaving the real property
limits of its owner or custodian and ensure that the animal cannot easily dig,
climb, jump, or otherwise escape the secure restraint.
   (C)   (1)   Chaining of a domestic dog is discouraged, but if it is done,
the following is required.
         (a)   All basic responsibilities and duties described in this chapter
are met at all times.
         (b)   The chain must be at least 12 feet in length, regardless of the
size of the dog.
         (c)   The chain must be not of a weight heavy enough to cause physical
damage to the dog’s neck or body.
         (d)   The chain must be able to move freely in all directions.
      (2)   These restrictions do not apply to owners and their animals that
are participating in sanctioned dog shows or similar events.
   (D)   The owner or custodian of any guard dog or watchdog must confine such
animal within a perimeter fence and meet the following conditions:
      (1)   The fence shall be sufficient to prevent the dog’s escape with all
points of ingress and egress securely locked at all times; and
      (2)   A beware of dog, or similar wordage, sign shall be conspicuously
displayed on each exterior side of the enclosure for each 50 feet of enclosure,
with a minimum of two, as well as a sign on each ingress or egress point to the
enclosure. Signs shall be a minimum of ten inches high and 14 inches wide.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2D) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Leash and control, see §
90.35
§ 90.06 RESTRAINT OF FEMALE DOMESTIC ANIMALS IN ESTRUS.
   The owner or custodian of any female domestic animal in estrus (commonly
referred to as heat) shall confine the animal within a secure enclosure and in
such a manner as to prevent the animal from becoming a nuisance and to prevent
conception, except during planned breeding.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2E) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 PERMANENT IDENTIFICATION OF A DOMESTIC ANIMAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person who owns a domestic animal which is six months or older which
permanently resides in the county with an owner whose legal address falls
within the county limits shall ensure that at all times the animal bears a
permanent means of identification such that the owner can be ascertained
accurately, quickly, and easily.
   (B)   The means of identifications required by this section shall be in
addition to any tags required to be worn by state law of other provisions of
this chapter, and shall be either by:
      (1)   A microchip implanted in the animal that bears a registered
identification number and can be read by a standard microchip scanner; or
      (2)   A permanent tag attached to a durable collar worn at all times by
the animal and the tag bears the owner’s current name, address, and telephone
number.
   (C)   The identifying chip or tag may only be removed by the animal’s owner,
custodian, or veterinarian acting on behalf of the owner, and can only be
temporarily removed for reasonably short periods of time for the ability to
maintain the animal’s health and hygiene.
   (D)   Each veterinarian or other person in the county who implants a
microchip shall make available upon request to the animal control officer the
names, addresses, and phone numbers of the owners(s) of the animal and the
corresponding microchip identification number. Such records shall be available
to the animal control officer without court order.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2F) (Ord. passed 6-1-2019) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.08 VACCINATIONS AND PROOF OF VACCINATION.
   (A)   The owners of all domestic animals within the county must comply with
vaccination requirements as set forth in state law, local ordinance, and the
rules and regulations for the State Board of Health and the Boone County Health
Department.
   (B)   (1)   All dogs, cats, and ferrets three months of age and older must
be vaccinated against rabies.
      (2)   The rabies vaccination of a dog, cat, and ferret shall be
maintained by ongoing revaccination of the animal as follows.
      (1)   Ferrets shall be revaccinated within 12 months of the prior
vaccination.
      (2)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine whose label
recommends annual boosters shall be revaccinated within 12 months of the prior
vaccination.
      (3)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine whose label
recommends a booster one year later and triennially thereafter shall be
revaccinated within 12 months of the first vaccination and shall be
revaccinated within 36 months of each vaccination thereafter.
   (C)   The owner of the animal is responsible for procuring the vaccinations
required by this section.
   (D)   All dogs shall have a rabies vaccination tag securely affixed to their
collar or harness at all times and owners of dogs, cats, and ferrets must be
able to provide documentation of rabies vaccination within 24 hours of being
asked by the animal control officer or local law enforcement agency.
   (E)   Vaccinations records must be supplied by the owner to the animal
control officer upon request if the animal has bitten, or is suspected of
biting, a person or other domestic animal.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2G) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly abandon a domestic animal or livestock as described by this chapter.
   (B)   A defense to this section may include an unforeseen medical emergency
of the owner or custodian of the animal. Colonies and feral cats are excluded
from this section.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2H) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to cause, permit, accompany, or be
responsible for the presence of any vicious animal on the streets or public
places of the county or allow the animal to run on the premises of another at
any time, unless, in addition to the other requirements of this chapter, the
animal is securely muzzled to effectively prevent it from biting any person or
other animal.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2I) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 ANIMAL BITES AND QUARANTINE.
   (A)   In the event of human being bit by a domestic animal, the animal shall
be quarantined in conformity with state law and the rules and regulations of
the State Board of Health and the Health Department.
   (B)   Every incident involving a human being bit by an animal shall be
reported within 24 hours to a local healthcare establishment, a law enforcement
agency, or the animal control officer. It is the duty of the person bitten or
the person’s parent or guardian to make the report in conformance with 410
I.A.C. 1-2.5-80 as amended.
   (C)   If the animal involved is located and able to be detained, the animal
shall be quarantined as determined by the Health Department and state law.
   (D)   Law enforcement animals maintaining current certification are exempt
from this section.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2J) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   (A)   A PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL shall mean and include, but is not limited
to, a domestic animal that:
      (1)   Is found at large (stray);
      (2)   Damages the property of anyone other than the owner;
      (3)   Is vicious;
      (4)   Attacks without provocation;
      (5)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing
unreasonable disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close
proximity to the premises where the animal is kept; or
      (6)   Is not being kept in conformity with county ordinances and
regulations pertaining to land, animals, and ownership.
   (B)   (1)   A public nuisance animal may be impounded by the animal control
officer, without a court order, and the owner or custodian of the animal cited
for a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The animal may be returned to the owner upon proof of ownership,
proof of payment of damages (if any), and proof of reasonable attempts to
mitigate the cause of nuisance determination.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2K) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 ANIMAL SACRIFICE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in, participate in, assist
in, or perform animal sacrifice. No person shall own, keep, possess, or harbor
any animal with the purpose or intention of using such animal for animal
sacrifice.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly sell, offer for sale,
give away, or transfer any animal to any person when he or she knows or
believes that person intends to use such animal for animal sacrifice.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing as permitted
by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the State Department
of Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2L) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 VEHICLES AND ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   A person who is in operation of a vehicle which causes injury or
death to a domestic animal shall immediately notify the animal’s owner, if
known, or the local law enforcement agency or animal control officer.
      (2)   The person must provide the location of the incident, a description
of the animal, and the condition of the animal. Such person is not required to
provide his or her name or identifying information (i.e., an address, as the
only purpose of this requirement is to aid the stricken animal and notify its
owner).
   (B)   A person who is in operation of a vehicle which causes injury or death
to a nondomestic animal shall immediately notify the local law enforcement
agency or animal control officer if any of the following exists.
      (1)   The collision leaves debris or carnage which constitutes a road
hazard.
      (2)   The collision causes damage to a secondary vehicle or injury to a
pedestrian.
      (3)   The collision causes damage to private property if the driver of
the involved vehicle does not have a contractual interest with the property.
   (C)   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle, whether on private or
public property, in which the conditions of the vehicle would constitute a
health hazard to the animal.
   (D)   No animal shall be transported in the trunk of a vehicle, a small
storage compartment of a vehicle (i.e., glove box), or in any other fashion
which restricts the animal from reasonable mobility and access to air during
transport.
   (E)   An animal in a vehicle involved in a motor vehicle collision should
be:
      (1)   Released to the owner or custodian of the animal if possible;
      (2)   Be held by the law enforcement agency and released to a person
named by the owner or the custodian of the animal if that person can be to the
scene in a reasonable time period; or
      (3)   Transported to an animal care facility for a temporary holding
period.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2M) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person who finds a stray animal should notify the local law
enforcement agency or the animal control officer within 24 hours.
   (B)   A person possessing the lost or stray animal must comply with all
rules and regulations of this chapter pertaining to humane care and treatment
of animals while the animal is in custody awaiting the return to the owner or
intervention of an animal care facility, the local law enforcement agency, or
the animal control officer.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2N) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 INJURED ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person who discovers an injured domestic animal or accidentally
causes injury to a domestic animal shall immediately notify the animal’s owner,
if known, the local law enforcement agency, or the animal control officer.
   (B)   (1)   The person must provide the location of the incident, a
description of the animal, and the condition of the animal.
      (2)   Such person is not required to provide his or her name or
identifying information (i.e., an address, as the only purpose of this
requirement is to aid the stricken animal and notify its owner).
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2O) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 DECEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person finding a dead domestic animal, large undomesticated animal
that constitutes a road or biohazard, or the surviving offspring of either,
shall call the local law enforcement agency or the animal control officer
immediately.
   (B)   If the local law enforcement agency is called, the agency shall:
      (1)   Notify the animal control officer if foul play is suspected or the
death appears to be caused by factors other than an accident, such as a
vehicular collision, or natural causes if the animal is a domestic animal; or
      (2)   Contact the appropriate agency to properly dispose of the animal’s
remains (i.e., the County Highway Department).
   (C)   (1)   Any deceased animal located on private property must be disposed
of within 24 hours in accordance with state law, the policy and/or rules of the
State Board of Animal Health, or industry standards as the case may dictate.
      (2)   The property owner is responsible for the disposal even if a third
party was responsible for the death of the animal.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2P) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 LIVESTOCK AND FOWL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to keep, harbor,
or maintain any swine, hogs, cattle, sheep, horses, ponies, fowl, or other
livestock within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 3, § 1) (Ord. 96-2, passed 7-8-1996)
Penalty, see §
90.99
LICENSING OF DOGS
§ 90.30 TOWN LIMITS.
   All dogs kept, owned, or harbored within the town shall be licensed by the
owner thereof.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 1) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 CHARGE.
   The license fee for each dog and cat shall be $5 per license, with a maximum
of $15 per household. Upon receipt of the license fee, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall issue tag or tags to the owner, as appropriate.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 2) (Ord. 2015-9, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 90.32 REGISTER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a register of said license and issue tags to
the owner, which shall be attached to a collar worn by the dog.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 3)
§ 90.33 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the town
limits, and the permitting of the same is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 4)
   (B)   Any dog found to be running at large in violation of division (A)
above shall be taken into custody by authority of the town and disposed of in
accordance with rules established by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 6)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.34 NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog within the town limits to disturb the
peace and quiet of the immediate surrounding neighborhood by constant barking.
The permitting of the same is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 5) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.35 LEASH AND CONTROL.
   In the event any dog is on the streets of the town, it shall be on a leash
and under control of its owner.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 7) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 MUZZLED DOGS.
   (A)   In the event any owner has a dog which has a practice of escaping from
his or her custody or biting people, he or she shall keep a muzzle on said dog
at all times.
   (B)   In the event any such muzzled dog is found running loose on the
streets, such dog shall be taken into custody and the owner notified. If such
dog is not claimed by the owner within three hours after being notified, said
dog shall be disposed in accordance with the terms of §
90.33(B).
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 8) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 CUSTODY OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   In the event there is a violation of §
90.33(A), the same may be prosecuted on affidavit filed by the complaining
party. Upon receiving such complaint, the Town Marshal is authorized to take
such dog into custody.
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall keep such dog in his or her custody until the
owner is notified and the actions there under are remedied by proper steps to
be including, but not limited to, the muzzling of said dog.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 9)
LICENSING OF CATS
§ 90.50 TOWN LIMITS.
   All cats within the town shall be licensed by the owner. The OWNER is
defined as anyone that keeps, harbors, or feeds a cat.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2A, § 1) (Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-4-2003)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.51 CHARGE.
   The charge for said license shall be set by the Town Council annually. The
same to be paid on the effective date of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2A, § 2) (Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-4-2003)
§ 90.52 REGISTER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a register of said license and issue tags to
the owner, which shall be attached to a collar worn by the cat.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2A, § 3) (Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-4-2003)
§ 90.53 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit any cat to run at large within the town
limits, and the permitting of the same is hereby declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2A, § 4)
   (B)   Any cat found running at large in violation of division (A) above
shall be taken into custody by the authority of the town and disposed of in
accordance with the rules established by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2A, § 5)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of a domestic animal found to be roaming at large or
stray may be fined $50 for the first offense and $100 for each subsequent
offense involving the same animal occurring within one year.
      (2)   The owner of any animal, or person in whose care an animal is
entrusted, or other individual found to be in violation of any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.17 relating to cruelty, abuse, mutilation, sacrifice, or willful neglect of
an animal may be fined up to $1,000 for each offense or animal.
      (3)   For any other violation of §§
90.01 through
90.17, the owner may be fined up to $100.
      (4)   In addition to any fines imposed, the owner may be responsible for
any and all court costs imposed and may be responsible to reimburse the county
for any and all legal costs associated with the enforcement proceeding.
      (5)   An animal control officer may enter private property and
investigate any violation of §§
90.01 through
90.17 and impound any animal where there is reasonable suspicion that the
animal is a public nuisance, or is subject to, or in danger of, cruelty, abuse,
or neglect.
      (6)   All violations of §§
90.01 through
90.17 or any action seeking enforcement by fine or injunction shall be filed
and prosecuted by the Boone County Attorney or his or her designee in the Boone
County Superior Court.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 3)
   (C)   Each day’s violation of the term of §
90.18 shall constitute a separate offense for which the violator may be fined
in any sum, not exceeding $50 for the first offense, $75 for the second
offense, and $100 for the third offense.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 3, § 2)
   (D)   In the event any person violates any provision of §§
90.30 through
90.37, he or she shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, § 10)
   (E)   In the event any person violates any provisions of §§
90.50 through
90.53, he or she shall be fined $50 for the first offense, $75 for the second
offense, and $100 for the third offense.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2A, § 6)
(Ord. 96-2, passed 7-8-1996; Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-4-2003; Ord. 2009-7, passed
8-4-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Ch. 33
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
   
91.01   Open burning
   
91.02   Tornado siren
   
91.03   Rapid access key boxes
   
91.04   Charges for hazardous materials incidents
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   The burning of garbage, trash, and other combustible materials within
the limits of the town between the hours of 8:00 p.m. in the evening and 6:00
a.m. the next morning be and the same is hereby prohibited unless a permit is
received from the Chief of the Town Volunteer Fire Department.
   (B)   This section is subject to any and all no burn orders issued from the
Town Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 10-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 TORNADO SIREN.
   (A)   The town will not sound the sirens when a tornado watch has been
issued, but they will be sounded for a tornado warning.
   (B)   The decision to sound the sirens may be made by any of the following:
      (1)   The County Sheriff’s Department;
      (2)   The Police Chief or officer in charge;
      (3)   The Fire Chief or officer in charge; or
      (4)   The Town Council.
   (C)   The siren will be sounded upon the sighting of a tornado either on the
ground of in the air in Boone County, Montgomery County, Northern Hendricks
County, or sited by radar at the County Sheriff’s Department or National
Weather Service.
   (D)   If a tornado is sighted in the air in any surrounding county of Boone,
the system may be activated at the discretion of the authorized personnel.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 1) (Res. 98-10, passed 12-1-1998)
§ 91.03 RAPID ACCESS KEY BOXES.
   (A)   (1)   When a building within the town is protected by an automatic
fire suppression or standpipe system, it shall be equipped with a key box.
      (2)   The key box shall be at a location approved by a representative of
the Fire Department and shall be of a type and size approved by the Fire Chief
and Town Marshal.
   (B)   When a building is protected by an automatic alarm system and/or
access to or within a building or an area within the building is unduly
difficult because of secured openings, the Fire Chief and Town Marshal may
require a key box to be installed at an approved location in order to grant
access to emergency personnel.
   (C)   When a property is protected by a locked fence or gate and access is
necessary for police or fire emergency, the Fire Chief and Town Marshal may
require a security padlock to be installed at an approved location with a key
made available to representatives of the Police and Fire Departments.
   (D)   If a building is protected by an automatic sprinkler system, the Fire
Chief may require that a security cap be installed of a type that is approved
by the Fire Chief.
   (E)   This section does not apply to owner-occupied one- or two-family
dwellings or residences but does apply to buildings or structures whether
privately or publicly owned, including, without limitation, buildings owned by
the town.
   (F)   (1)   The keys and emergency access boxes shall contain keys to locked
points of egress; keys to the lock mechanical rooms and/or elevators; keys to
any fence or padlocked, secured areas.
      (2)   The building shall have posted in a conspicuous place
identification information containing emergency contact people and phone
numbers where said personnel can be reached.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 2, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. 2009-8, passed 9-8-2009)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 CHARGES FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council recognizes the need of the Volunteer Fire Department
to impose charges in the use of the fire trucks belonging to the town in
accordance with I.C. 36-8-12-13, and established by the State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   The Volunteer Fire Department shall charge the owner of a vehicle or
responsible party that is involved in a hazardous material or fuel spill, or
chemical or hazardous material related fire on a public way, including an
interstate highway.
      (1)   Initial response: $250, and $100 per command/control vehicle;
      (2)   For each hour or fraction thereof as on-scene assistance: $150 per
response unit, and $50 per command/control vehicle;
      (3)   For expendable materials, the actual replacement cost of these
materials; and
      (4)   For collection of debris, chemicals, fuel, or contaminated
materials resulting from a spill, the actual cost of removal and disposal at an
authorized location.
   (C)   The Town Volunteer Fire Department shall submit a copy of the fire
incident report to each billing sent for services. The monies collected be used
for the purchase of equipment, buildings, and property for firefighting, fire
protection, and other emergency services. The Town Volunteer Fire Department
does recognize that a report must be filed before April 1 to the Town Council,
the amount of charges collected the previous year and how these funds were
spent. These charges will be reviewed each year to determine if they are still
in line with the State Fire Marshal’s office.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 11, Ch. 1) (Res. 98-4, passed 6-2-1998)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of §
91.01 may be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 for the first offense, $150
for the second offense, and $200 for the third offense.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 2, § 2) (Ord. 2009-7, passed 8-4-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Ch. 33
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
92.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
92.09   Exemptions
   
92.10   Administrative enforcement
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04, 92.05, 92.06, 92.07, or 92.08, or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residency by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. 
      (1)   Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9) with the status of
such family being further defined by the definition of “familial status” above.
      (2)   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3, the definition
of FAMILY is revised to include families, regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9-7-5.
      (2)   (a)   The term HANDICAP does not include current illegal use of or
addictions to controlled substances as defined under 21 U.S.C. § 802; and
(I.C. 22-9-7-5)
         (b)   Nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because
that individual is a tranvestite.
(I.C. 22-9-7-5)
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, nonincorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, the definition of
“family” in §
92.02, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04 shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and
I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that, in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(A)(3), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §
92.03(B) and §
92.02, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI 117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (B)(3)(c)3. above.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
92.03, 92.04, 92.05, or 92.06.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to encourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state, and federal law; and if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as in incident to its primary purpose or
purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 92.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 10-3-2016)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Town Parks Department and Municipal Park Board
   
93.01   Department created
   
93.02   Board created
   
93.03   Board member removal procedure
   
93.04   Board meetings, election of officers, quorum
   
93.05   Duties of the Park Board
   
93.06   Powers of the Park Board
   
93.07   Sale of personal property declared by Board to be surplus
   
93.08   Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation
   
93.09   Bonds and crime policies for Town Park Board
   
93.10   Park Board Advisory Council and special committees
   
93.11   Gifts, donations, and subsidies
   
93.12   Special taxing district
   
93.13   Special nonreverting capital fund
   
93.14   Cumulative building fund
   
93.15   Fees
   
93.16   Additional powers
Town Park
   
93.30   Park hours
Pleasant Acres Nature Park
   
93.45   Park hours
   
93.46   Operation
   
93.47   Rules
TOWN PARKS DEPARTMENT AND MUNICIPAL PARK BOARD
§ 93.01 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   The Town Department of Parks and Recreation is hereby created pursuant to
I.C. 36-10-3-3.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1A)
§ 93.02 BOARD CREATED.
   (A)   The Municipal Park and Recreation Board is hereby created under I.C.
36-10-3-3 and shall be known as the Jamestown Municipal Park Board.
   (B)   The Municipal Park Board, hereinafter referred to as “the Board,”
shall be composed of four members appointed by the Town Council.
      (1)   The members shall be appointed on the basis of their interest in
and knowledge of parks and recreation.
      (2)   The Town Council waives the requirement that a member of the Board
be affiliated with a political party and that not more than two of the four
members of the Board be affiliated with the same political party, which waiver
is authorized by I.C. 36-10-3-4.1.
      (3)   Members of the Municipal Park Board must be residents of the town.
      (4)   In addition, the Municipal Park Board may have one additional
member who is either a member of the governing body of the Western Boone School
Corporation as selected by that body or a member designated by the governing
body of the Western Boone School Corporation pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-4(c).
This additional member shall serve ex officio, but shall have all the rights of
the regular members, including the right to vote. A vacancy in this ex officio
position shall be filled by the governing body of the Western Boone School
Corporation. The Town Council and regular members of the Municipal Park Board
shall be responsible for providing names of suggested appointees to the members
of the governing body of the Western Boone School Corporation.
      (5)   Municipal executives or members of the Town Council may not serve
on the Municipal Park Board.
   (C)   (1)   Initial appointments to the Board are as follows:
         (a)   One member for a term of one year;
         (b)   One member for a term of two years;
         (c)   One member for a term of three years; and
         (d)   One member for a term of four years.
      (2)   As each term expires, each new appointment is for a four-year term.
All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a member continues in
office until his or her successor is appointed.
   (D)   The Town Council shall make the initial appointments within 90 days
after the creation of the Municipal Park Board.
   (E)   If an appointment for any new term is not made by the first Monday in
April, the incumbent shall serve another term.
   (F)   In making initial appointments, the Town Council, in order to provide
continuity of experience in programs, shall give special consideration to the
appointment of members from previous park or recreation boards.
   (G)   If a vacancy on the Board occurs, the Town Council shall appoint a
person to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1B) (Ord. 2020-12, passed 12-28-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see I.C. 36-10-3-4(b), 36-10-3-5(a)(1-4), 36-10-3-5
(c)-(d)
§ 93.03 BOARD MEMBER REMOVAL PROCEDURE.
   A member may be removed only for cause, upon specific written charges filed
against him or her. The charges shall be filed with and heard by the Town
Council, unless the Town Council is bringing the charges. If the Town Council
is bringing the charges, the Town Council shall appoint a hearing officer. The
person to hear the charges shall fix a date for a public hearing and give
public notice at least ten days in advance of the hearing. At the hearing, the
member is entitled to present evidence and argument and to be presented by
counsel.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1C)
§ 93.04 BOARD MEETINGS, ELECTION OF OFFICERS, QUORUM.
   (A)   Meetings.
      (1)   All meetings of the Board are open to the public.
      (2)   The Board shall fix and publicize the time and place of its regular
meetings.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly. Special meetings of the
Board may be called by the Board President or by any two Board members by
written request to the Secretary. The Secretary shall send to each member, at
least two days before a special meeting, a written notice fixing the time,
place, and purpose of the meeting.
   (B)   Officers.
      (1)   At its first regular meeting each year, the Board shall elect a
President and Vice President. The Vice President may act as President during
the absence or disability of the President.
      (2)   The Board may select a Secretary either from within or outside its
membership.
   (C)   Quorum.
      (1)   A majority of the members constitutes a quorum.
      (2)   Action of the Board is not official unless it is authorized by at
least three members present and acting.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1D)
§ 93.05 DUTIES OF THE PARK BOARD.
   The Board shall:
   (A)   Exercise general supervision of and make rules for the Department;
   (B)   Establish rules governing the use of the park and recreation
facilities by the public;
   (C)   Provide police protection for its properties and activities by
requesting assistance from the municipal police force;
   (D)   Appoint the necessary administrative officers of the Department and
fix their duties;
   (E)   Establish standards and qualifications for the appointment of all
personnel and recommend approval of their appointments, without regard to
politics, to the Town Council;
   (F)   Make recommendations and an annual report to the Town Council
concerning the operation of the Board and the status of park and recreation
programs in the district;
   (G)   Prepare and submit an annual budget to the Town Council; and
   (H)   Appoint a member of the Board to serve on another kind of board or
commission whenever a statute allows a Park Board to do this.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1E)
§ 93.06 POWERS OF PARK BOARD.
   The Municipal Park Board shall have all the powers listed in I.C. 36-10-3 et
seq.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1F)
§ 93.07 SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY DECLARED BY BOARD TO BE SURPLUS.
   The Board may sell, or order sold through a designated representative, by
public or private sale, any personal property that the Board has declared to be
surplus at a regular or special meeting and has declared to have an aggregate
appraised value of $5,000 or less. The Board must conduct the sale in
accordance with I.C. 36-10-3-12.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1G)
§ 93.08 SUPERINTENDENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   The Municipal Park Board may appoint a Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation. The Board may not consider political affiliation in the selection
of the Superintendent.
   (B)   The Superintendent must:
      (1)   Be qualified by training or experience in the field of parks and
recreation; or
      (2)   Have a certification or an advanced degree in the field of parks
and recreation.
   (C)   The Superintendent of the Town Department of Parks and Recreation
shall have the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-10-3-14.
   (D)   (1)   If the Board decides that the size of the Department’s operation
requires assistance for the Superintendent, the Board may appoint, upon the
recommendation of the Superintendent, one or more assistants.
      (2)   The Board shall determine their qualifications on a basis similar
to that prescribed for the Superintendent.
      (3)   Assistants are directly responsible to the Superintendent and shall
perform the duties specified by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1H)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see I.C. 36-10-3-15
§ 93.09 BONDS AND CRIME POLICIES FOR TOWN PARK BOARD.
   (A)   Every officer and employee who handles money in the performance of
duties as prescribed by this subchapter shall execute an official bond for the
term of office or employment before entering upon the duties of the office of
employment.
   (B)   The Town Council may, under I.C. 5-4-1-18, authorize the purchase of a
blanket bond or crime insurance policy endorsed to include faithful performance
to cover all officers’ and employees’ faithful performance of duties. The
amount of the bond or crime insurance policy shall be fixed by the Town Council
and must be approved by the Town Council President.
   (C)   All official bonds shall be filed and recorded in the office of the
Boone County Recorder.
   (D)   The Commissioner of Insurance shall prescribe the forms of the bonds
or crime policies required by this section.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1I)
§ 93.10 PARK BOARD ADVISORY COUNCIL AND SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Board may create an advisory council and special committees composed of
citizens interested in parks and recreation pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-17.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1J)
§ 93.11 GIFTS, DONATIONS, AND SUBSIDIES.
   The Board may accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for parks as outlined
in I.C. 36-10-3-18.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1K)
§ 93.12 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT.
   (A)   The territory within the boundaries of the town comprises a special
taxing district for the purpose of levying special benefit taxes for park and
recreational purposes.
   (B)   The Town Council shall determine and provide the revenues necessary
for the operation of the Department or for capital expenditures not covered by
the issuance of bonds by:
      (1)   A specific levy to be used exclusively for these purposes;
      (2)   A special appropriation; or
      (3)   Both of these methods.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1L)
§ 93.13 SPECIAL NONREVERTING CAPITAL FUND.
   Upon the request of the Board, the Town Council may establish, by ordinance,
a special nonreverting capital fund for the purposes of acquiring land or
making specific capital improvements. The Town Council may include in the Park
Board’s annual budget an item and an appropriation for these specific purposes.
Money placed in the nonreverting capital fund may not be withdrawn except for
the purposes for which the fund was created, unless the Town Council repeals
the ordinance. The Town Council may not repeal the ordinance under suspension
of the rules.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1M)
§ 93.14 CUMULATIVE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   The Municipal Park Board may establish a cumulative building fund
under I.C. 6-1.1-41 to provide money for:
      (1)   Building, remodeling, and repair of park and recreation facilities;
or
      (2)   Purchase of land for park and recreation purposes.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of I.C. 6-1.1-41, before a fund may be
established, the proposed action must be approved by the Town Council.
   (C)   To provide for the cumulative building fund, the Town Council may levy
a tax in compliance with I.C. 6-1.1-41 not to exceed $0.0167 on each $100 of
assessed valuation of taxable property within the unit.
   (D)   The tax shall be collected and held in a special fund known as the
Town Park and Recreation Cumulative Building Fund.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1N)
§ 93.15 FEES.
   (A)   Park and recreation facilities and programs shall be made available to
the public free of charge as far as possible. However, if it is necessary in
order to provide a particular activity, the Board may charge a reasonable fee.
   (B)   The Town Council may establish by ordinance, upon request of the
Board:
      (1)   A special nonreverting fund for park purposes from which
expenditures may be made as provided by ordinance, either by appropriation by
the Board or by the Town Council; or
      (2)   A special nonreverting capital fund for the purpose of acquiring
land or making specific capital improvements from which expenditures may be
made by appropriation of the Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Council shall designate the fund or funds into which the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit fees from golf courses, swimming pools, skating
rinks, or other major facilities requiring major expenditures for management
and maintenance.
   (D)   Money received from fees other than from major facilities or received
from the sale of surplus property shall be deposited by the Clerk-Treasurer
either in the special nonreverting operating fund or in the nonreverting
capital fund as directed by the Park Board. However, if neither fund has been
established, money received from fees or the sale of surplus property shall be
deposited in the unit’s general funds. Money from either special fund may be
disbursed on approved claims allowed and signed.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1O)
§ 93.16 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The Municipal Park Board may acquire real property, issue bonds, and levy a
special tax in accordance with I.C. 36-10-3 et seq.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, § 1P)
TOWN PARK
§ 93.30 PARK HOURS.
   The Town Park located at 30 West Main Street, Jamestown, IN, shall be open
from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. each day, except for special activities authorized
by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 2, § 1) (Ord. 99-2, passed 3-2-1999)
PLEASANT ACRES NATURE PARK
§ 93.45 PARK HOURS.
   The Pleasant Acres Nature Park shall be open from sunrise to sunset all year
round, except for special activities authorized by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 3, § 1) (Ord. 99-2, passed 3-2-1999)
§ 93.46 OPERATION.
   (A)   The Pleasant Acres Nature Park was donated in September of 1997 to the
town and shall be maintained as a nature park and family recreational/nature
facility.
   (B)   The following restrictive covenants shall apply to the Nature Park.
      (1)   The Nature Park shall be open to the public without discrimination.
      (2)   The town shall be allowed to make any decisions regarding
maintenance and development, including, but not limited to, decisions regarding
the use of the park to best enhance the nature theme.
      (3)   The Nature Park shall be perpetual and, should the town be unable
to maintain the park, it shall revert to the Boone County Community Foundation.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 3, § 2) (Ord. 99-2, passed 3-2-1999)
§ 93.47 RULES.
   (A)   (1)   Only foot traffic and wheelchairs, for the disabled, will be
allowed in the park, except for maintenance and emergency vehicles.
      (2)   This section specifically excludes all other motorized vehicles,
horses, mules, asses, bicycles, skates, skate boards, and roller blades.
Further, no bows, arrows, or hunting knives shall be allowed in the park or
parking area.
   (B)   No alcoholic beverages or drugs, as defined in the Indiana Code, shall
be allowed in the park or parking area.
   (C)   Dogs will be allowed on leash only.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 3, § 3) (Ord. 99-2, passed 3-2-1999; Ord.
2014-1, passed 3-4-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful noise
   
94.04   Unlawful noise from a building or structure
   
94.05   Exemptions
   
94.06   Entry onto private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The making, creation, or maintenance of noise of various kinds and by
various means that is unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent,
offensive, or an obstruction to the free use of property within the town has so
increased as to constitute a public nuisance. The making, creation, or
maintenance of noise of various kinds and by various means that is unreasonably
loud, injurious to health, indecent, offensive, or an obstruction to the free
use of property and is prolonged in its time, place, and use, adversely effects
and is a detriment to the comfort, repose, peace, and safety of the residents
of and visitors to the town.
   (B)   The necessity, in the public interest, for the declaration of this
public policy as set forth in the provisions of this section is declared as a
matter of legislative determination and is designed to secure and promote the
comfort, repose, health, peace, and safety of the residents of and visitors to
the town.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, § 1)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods, or materials of any kind or nature.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on or in the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed
location on or in the ground. STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes,
walls, parking areas, and public and private infrastructure.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, § 2)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL NOISE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provide in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to make, create, or maintain any noise that is:
      (1)   Unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent, offensive, or an
obstruction to the free use of property within the town; or
      (2)   Adversely or substantially affects, annoys, disturbs, injures, or
endangers the comfort, repose, health and peace, and safety of others within
the town.
   (B)   Accordingly, the following acts, among others, are declared to be
unlawful noises in violation of this chapter:
      (1)   The erection, demolition, alteration, or repair of any building, or
the excavation therefor, at any times other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 9:00 p.m., Monday through Sunday. There shall be an exception to this
constituting unlawful noise in the case of an emergency or urgent necessity in
the interest of public health and safety, but then only with a permit from the
Town Building Inspector which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed
three days while the emergency or urgent necessity continues and which permit
maybe be renewed for an additional period up to three days while the emergency
or urgent necessity continues;
      (2)   Playing, using, or operating, or permitting to be played, used, or
operated any radio or television set, musical instrument, or other machine or
electronic device for producing or reproducing sound in such a manner as to
make, create, or maintain an unlawful noise, or at any time with volume louder
than is necessary for convenient hearing of the person or persons who are in
the room, vehicle, or changer in which such machine or electronic device is
operated. The operation of such set, instrument, machine or electronic device
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible in the immediate vicinity of the building, structure, or vehicle in
which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
division (B)(2);
      (3)   (a)   The discharge into the open air of any unlawful noise created
by the exhaust of any internal combustion engine, or any type of engine or
power unit on a motorcycle or other motor vehicle or craft of any kind, except
through a muffler, or other device that will effectively reduce and prevent
unlawful noise therefrom except for farm vehicles.
         (b)   A motor vehicle must be equipped with a muffler or other noise
dissipation device that is in good working order and is in constant operation
to prevent unlawful noise; and
      (4)   The operation of off-road vehicles, ATVs, snowmobiles, and other
special use vehicles shall be prohibited between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, § 3) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 UNLAWFUL NOISE FROM A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit persons creating
unlawful noise or persons of disorderly character to assemble in any building
or structure owned, occupied, or controlled by him or her.
   (B)   A person who recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally engages in
conduct which makes unlawful noise and continues to do so after being directed
or requested to stop commits disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, § 4) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exemptions:
   (A)   Noise or sounds emitted from any authorized emergency vehicle;
   (B)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concerts, artistic
performances, or any other event authorized by the town;
   (C)   Noise arising from or created by athletic or sporting practices or
events; and
   (D)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally established non-
transient businesses when such sounds are customary and within the normal range
appropriate for such use and do not constitute unlawful noise. Noises
ordinarily associated with agricultural uses. Noises associated with aircrafts,
airports, and trains.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, § 5)
§ 94.06 ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any duly authorized town law enforcement officers or representatives
in the course of their duties in enforcing this chapter shall have the right to
enter onto private property, provided that they have probable cause that a
violation of this chapter is occurring or has occurred, but they shall not
enter into any structure or building without permission or authorization to do
so.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, the Town Marshal or his or her authorized representatives are hereby
authorized to make inspections of all sources of noise. If any person refuses
or restricts entry and free access to any part of a building or structure, or
refuses inspection of any activity, device, facility, motor vehicle, or process
where inspection is sought, such officer of the town or his or her authorized
representatives may seek from the County Court a warrant for inspection
requiring that such person permit entry and free access without interference,
restriction, or obstruction, at a reasonable time, for the purpose of
inspecting, testing, or measuring noise. The County Court shall have power,
jurisdiction, and authority to enforce all orders issued under the provisions
of the chapter.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, § 6)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   If any duly authorized town law enforcement officer or representative has
probable cause that a violation of this chapter is occurring or has occurred,
the town officer or representative shall first give a verbal warning to the
person believed to be violating this chapter. After issuance of the verbal
warning from the town officer or representative, the town officer or
representative may write a ticket for subsequent or continuing violation of the
provisions of this chapter. A person violating the provisions of this chapter
or an order issued under authority of this chapter after receipt of a verbal
warning shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a violation. A violation of this
chapter shall carry a fine, which fine shall be an amount, fixed by the Court
in its discretion, not greater than $250 per violation, or $100 if paid at
least seven days in advance of the scheduled hearing or appearance date in
Court for such violation.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, § 7)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Junk and abandoned vehicles
   
95.02   Junkyards prohibited
   
95.03   Rubbish
   
95.04   Ashes and cinders removal
   
95.05   Annual spring clean-up
Unsafe Buildings and Weed Control
   
95.20   State laws adopted
   
95.21   Public nuisance declared
   
95.22   Ordering repair or removal of unsafe buildings
   
95.23   Authority
   
95.24   Definitions
   
95.25   Workmanship
   
95.26   Compliance required
   
95.27   Hearing authority
   
95.28   Injunctive relief
   
95.29   Bond
   
95.30   Public property
   
95.31   Private property
   
95.32   Permits
   
95.33   Trimming
   
95.34   Regulation and specification
   
95.35   Administration and enforcement
   
95.36   Required action
   
95.37   Violation notice
   
95.38   Cutting and removal by town
   
95.39   Statement of costs incurred
   
95.40   Payment of costs incurred and lien
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 JUNK AND ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Because of the danger to health from vermin and insects and rodents
and because of the danger to the safety of children attracted by such vehicles,
abandoned and junked motor vehicles, trailers, flatbeds, and other dilapidated
conveyances are hereby declared to be a nuisance, except in lawfully operated
junk yards.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, § 1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or allow to remain in the
open upon public or private property within the corporate limits of the town
any disassembled, or inoperable or unlicensed, or any junked, wrecked, or
abandoned motor vehicle for a period of five or more days on public property,
or for a period of 15 or more days on private property, unless it is in
connection with an automotive sales or repair business enterprise which
operates under a duly issued and exhibited store license and is located in a
properly zoned area.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, § 2)
   (C)   Whenever the Marshal of the town shall find any such vehicle placed or
stored in the open upon public property within the corporate limits of the
town, he or she shall issue an order to the owner of such vehicle to remove
such vehicle within three days. Notice of such order shall be placed upon said
vehicle. If such vehicle is not removed within three days pursuant to said
order and notice, the Town Marshal shall cause such vehicle to be removed by a
junk or salvage yard or wrecker service to be paid by the owner of such
vehicle.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, § 3)
   (D)   Whenever the Marshal of the town shall find any such vehicle placed or
stored in the open upon private property within the corporate limits of the
town, he or she shall issue an order to the owner of such vehicle to remove
such vehicle within ten days. Notice of such order shall be placed upon such
vehicle and copies of such notice shall be served upon any adult occupying the
real estate on which said vehicle is located and also upon the owner of the
vehicle, if his or her name and whereabouts are known. If no occupant of the
real estate or owner of such vehicle can be found, a notice affixed to any
building on the real estate shall constitute notice to the owner and occupant
of the real estate and to the owner of such vehicle. If there is no building on
the real estate, said notice may be affixed elsewhere on the real estate. If
such vehicle is not removed within ten days pursuant to said order and notice,
and if said order is not stayed by the issuing officer pursuant to a written
request showing good cause for a permanent or temporary stay, the Marshal of
the town shall cause such vehicle to be removed by a junk or salvage yard or
wrecker service, the cost and expense of such removal by the junk or salvage
yard or wrecker service to be paid by the owner of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, § 4)
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to auto salvage yards
and/or junk yards that are duly operated and licensed by the state and the
town, and are operated and located in a properly zoned area.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, § 5)
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is or was equipped with a
motor, and shall also mean any portion of a motor vehicle which is detached
from the main portion of any vehicle. The term VEHICLE shall also include
trailers, flatbeds, and/or other wheeled items of conveyance and shall continue
to include semi-trailers not attached to a tractor unit.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, § 6)
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 4-7-2009) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 JUNKYARDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to maintain or
operate any junk yard or place where junk is stored or kept for sale within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 2, § 1) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to leave or cause
or permit to be left for a period exceeding 30 days any pile of old lumber, or
any collection of garbage, or any tin cans, rolls of wire, or wire fencing, or
old iron, junk, refuse, and tires, leaves, or brush on any privately owned real
estate within the corporate limits of the town, the doing of which is hereby
declared to constitute a nuisance, and in the event such person, firm, or
corporation shall fail or refuse to remove or abate such nuisance after such
period of time and after having been notified so to do by the Town Marshal, the
same may be removed by the town, and the expense thereof shall be certified by
the Town Clerk-Treasurer to the Auditor of the county, and such expense shall
be placed upon the tax duplicate against the property of such owner where such
nuisance shall be given by the Town Marshal after the expiration of such 30-day
period or, in case of garbage or dead animals, after three days, and the owner
shall have three days after receiving such notice to abate or remove such
nuisance. The notice by the Marshal shall be given in writing, directing the
owner or occupant of the property to abate or remove such nuisance and shall
clearly designate to such owner or occupant the articles to be removed. Proof
of the giving of such notice shall be made by the certificate of the Marshal on
a true copy thereof to be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 3, § 1) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 ASHES AND CINDERS REMOVAL.
   All piles of ashes and cinders shall be removed from premises not later than
May 15 in each year.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 2, § 2) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 ANNUAL SPRING CLEAN-UP.
   (A)   The Town Council now finds that, in the interest of public health,
there should be established within the town limits a day in the spring of each
year when those living in single-family residences within the limits of the
town, shall be permitted to deposit their annual accumulation of trash and
rubbish at the curb for removal by a scavenger service retained by the town.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 4, § 1)
   (B)   The date for the annual spring clean-up shall be established by the
Town Council. The Town Council shall announce the date of the annual spring
clean-up at its regular annual March Board Meeting in all future years,
provided however, that the date shall, for the year 1987, be established at the
meeting at which the ordinance from which this section is derived is enacted.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 4, § 2)
   (C)   Only single-family residences shall be permitted to deposit their
trash and rubbish at the curb during the annual spring clean-up. No business,
apartments, or churches will be included in the spring clean-up.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 4, § 3)
   (D)   In order to defray the cost of the spring clean-up, there is hereby
established an assessment of $5 per single-family residence which shall be paid
each year at the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Such assessment will be
added to customers’ March utility billing for payment in April of each year.
The amount of future assessments and the date for payment shall be established
by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 4, § 4)
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 1-7-2003)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND WEED CONTROL
§ 95.20 STATE LAWS ADOPTED.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through I.C. 36-7-9-29 is hereby adopted by reference as the
town’s Unsafe Building Law. Further, I.C. 36-7-10.1-1 through 36-7-10.1-5 is
hereby adopted by reference as the weeds and vegetation removal law of the
town. All proceedings within the town for the inspection, repair, and removal
of unsafe buildings shall be governed by the aforementioned law and the
provisions of this subchapter. All proceedings within the town for the removal
of weeds and rank vegetation shall be governed by the law herein before stated
and the provisions of this subchapter. In the event the provisions of this
subchapter conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29 and
I.C. 36-7-10.1-1 through I.C. 36-7-10.1-5 then the provisions of the state
statue shall be controlling.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 95.21 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined after
inspection by the Building Inspector to be unsafe, as defined in this
subchapter, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 95.22 ORDERING REPAIR OR REMOVAL OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   The Building Inspector, as chief administrative officer of the Department of
Planning and Development, or his or her designated representative, shall be
authorized to administer and proceed under the provisions of such law in
ordering the repair or removal of any buildings found to be unsafe as specified
therein or as specified hereinafter.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch.1, § 2) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 95.23 AUTHORITY.
   Wherever in the building regulations of the town or the town’s Unsafe
Building Law, being found in I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq., it is provided that
anything must be done to the approval of, or subject to, the direction of the
Building Inspector, or any other officer of the Building Inspector’s office,
this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of determining
whether the rules and standards established by ordinance have been complied
with; and no such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standings shall be, power
to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance
provisions in an arbitrary, capricious, or discretionary manner.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 95.24 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Town Marshal or his or her designee.
   PROPERTY OWNER or OWNER. The person, firm, or legal entity whose name
appears on the current tax duplicate in the office of either the Auditor of
Boone County or Auditory of Hendricks County, as the owner of such real estate.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. As defined in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 5)
   TOWN. The Town of Jamestown, Indiana.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. The description of an UNSAFE BUILDING contained in I.C. 36-
7-9-4 is hereby supplemented to provide minimal standards for building
condition or maintenance in the town by adding the following definition: Any
building or structure which has any or all of the conditions or defects
hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an UNSAFE BUILDING, provided that
such condition or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or
safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is not
sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate
means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway,
there means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise UNSAFE as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the street in any materials, member, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such extent that the structural strength
or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such catastrophe and
is less than it was before such catastrophe and is less than the minimum
requirements for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of any of the following, is likely to partially or completely collapse:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundations; or
         (e)   Any other cause.
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which is being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural member
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so at
to become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been construed, exists, or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this town, or of any law or ordinance of this state relating to condition,
location, or structure of buildings;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member, or
portion less than 66% of the:
         (a)   Strength;
         (b)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
         (c)   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height, and occupancy
in the same location.
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the County Health
Department or its designated representative to be unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation, or in such a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Chief of the town or his or her designated representative to be a fire hazard;
and/or
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
   WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION.
      (1)   Shall include the following:
         (a)   All plants identified in I.C. 15-16-7-2 or plants that are
poisonous or detrimental to human health or have been determined to be noxious
by the state legislature or by rule of the State Department of Natural
Resources or State Department of Agriculture; and
         (b)   Grass in excess of six inches tall.
      (2)   WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION shall not include the following:
         (a)   Wetlands;
         (b)   Woods;
         (c)   Nature preserves;
         (d)   Undeveloped areas;
         (e)   Storm water best management practice areas;
         (f)   Agricultural crops such as hay and pasture;
         (g)   Grasses or landscape intended to provide a teeing ground,
fairway, rough, controlled, and maintained heather, hazard or putting area for
a golf course that is in operation; or
         (h)   Vegetable matter cultivated in plant beds.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 4)
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000; Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 95.25 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair, or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions
of the building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, shall be considered standard
and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this subchapter or orders
issued pursuant to this subchapter by the Building Inspector of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.26 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, or occupant,
shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve remove, demolish
equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or cause or permit
the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter or any order issued by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 7) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.27 HEARING AUTHORITY.
   For the purpose of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq., the hearing authority, as required
by this subchapter and the state statutes governing the same, shall be that
person or persons as designated by the town executive.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 8) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 95.28 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In the event that the town is required to file ordinance violation charges
or is required to seek injunctive or other relief before any court, as herein
specified, then, and in that event, upon any determination in favor of the
town, the town shall be further entitled to recover an have judgment against
any such person, firm, or corporation, or other entity violating this
subchapter for the town’s reasonable attorney fees incurred in prosecuting any
of the actions set forth herein.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 9) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 95.29 BOND.
   Pursuant to the establishment of the unsafe building ordinance, the Town
Council, the designated hearing authority, pursuant to recommendation by the
Town Plan Commission, hereby established the bond under the unsafe building
ordinance as follows.
   (A)   A maximum bond may be established by the hearing authority which shall
be no greater than the amount of $100,000. The amount of the bond to be
established by the hearing authority under the unsafe building ordinance shall
be in relation to, and in proportion to, the cost of the amount of work which
has been ordered pursuant to those actions authorized by ordinance and state
law.
   (B)   In the event the person, firm, corporation, or other entity which is
ordered to comply with the ordered action under the unsafe building ordinance,
disagrees with the bond established by the hearing authority, then, in that
event, the affected party shall obtain two independent estimates of repair
cost, removal, or such other action as has been ordered under the unsafe
building ordinance, from recognized contractors, or their equivalent, at their
own expense, which shall be submitted to the hearing authority (common council)
prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the body for further
consideration and/or reevaluation of the bond ordered set under the unsafe
building ordinance.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 10) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 95.30 PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to trim, remove,
or plant, injure, or destroy any tree vine, shrub, flower, or plant within the
limits of any public street, alley, thoroughfare, lawn, park, parkway, or
boulevard, without first obtaining written permission from the Town Council.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 11) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.31 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Town Council hereafter be empowered and authorized to require the
owners or occupants of property abutting any street or alley, to remove or trim
any tree, shrub, vine, or plant, or part thereof, in front or along the
property of any such owner or occupant which may be dead or in an unsightly or
in a dangerous condition, or which may project over such street beyond the
property line of such owner or occupant to a height of ten feet or less,
according to the size, or any tree obstructing the free passage of pedestrians
on the sidewalk, by first causing notice to be served upon such owner or
occupant of the premises adjoining said street or alley ten days prior to the
time designated for the removal or trimming of any such tree, shrub, vine, or
plant.
   (B)   If said owner or occupant does not comply with the provisions of this
section within ten days after receiving such notice, it shall be the duty of
said Town Council, at its next regular meeting, to cause a complaint to be
filed before any court having jurisdiction herein, against such owner or
occupant for violating the provisions of the ordinances of said town relating
to the trimming of shade trees, shrubs, vines, and plants.
   (C)   It shall further be the duty of such Town Council to direct the Town
Marshal and/or Street Commissioner to cause such trees, shrubs, vines, and
plants to be trimmed in accordance with the requirements of such ordinance and
to collect the costs thereof in the same manner as taxes are collected.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 12) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 95.32 PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of cutting or
trimming trees, shrubs, vines, and plants in the town, without first procuring
from the Town Clerk-Treasurer a written permit authorizing any such person so
to engage in any such business.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 13) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.33 TRIMMING.
   When trees are trimmed, all dead wood shall be cut out and all refuse
removed.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 14) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.34 REGULATION AND SPECIFICATION.
   The Town Council shall have further power from time to time, to adopt rules,
regulations, and specifications, not inconsistent herewith, for the trimming,
removal, and protection of all trees, shrubs, vines, and plants within the
limits of any public street, alley, thoroughfare, park, or lawn in said town,
and have the power to regulate and prescribe the terms and conditions, not
inconsistent herewith, upon which permits to trim, remove, or cut any such
trees, shrubs, vines, or plants, may be issued.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 2, § 15) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 95.35 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Department is authorized to administer and enforce the terms and
provisions of this subchapter. The Town Council may, from time to time, also
appoint duly authorized representatives to enforce the terms of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Department, or duly authorized representative appointed by the
Town Council, shall have all rights and authorities as are provided under I.C.
36-7-10.1 et seq. as the department authorized to administer and enforce this
subchapter. It is hereby acknowledged, understood, and declared by the Town
Council that the Department is required to exercise and is vested with the
authority to exercise its discretion and judgment in order to protect and
preserve the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the
town in administering and enforcing this subchapter. The authority of the
Department to issue or revoke, or fail or refuse to issue or revoke any notice,
approval, order, or similar action under this subchapter is hereby declared to
be discretionary.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 95.36 REQUIRED ACTION.
   It shall be the duty of any property owner of real estate within the limits
of the town to cut and remove all weeds and rank vegetation growing upon such
real estate when such weeds and rank vegetation exceed a height of six inches,
as measured from the ground, including, but not limited to, that portion of
such real estate that is adjacent to or abutting upon any sidewalk, alley, or
street.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-10-2022) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.37 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   If weeds and other rank vegetation are found to be growing in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter, the Department shall give
written notice to the owner upon whose property such weeds and other rank
vegetation are growing, identifying the violation, and stating that such
property owner is required to cut and/or remove such weeds and other rank
vegetation growing on such property within seven calendar days of the notice.
The notice shall be served upon the property owner by first class mail or an
equivalent service permitted under I.C. 1-1-7-1 at the last known address as
recorded in the Auditor’s office.
   (B)   If an initial violation notice was provided by certified mail, first
class mail, or equivalent service permitted under I.C. 1-1-7-1, a continuous
abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time of abatement. A
continuous abatement notice serves as notice to the property owner that each
subsequent violation of this subchapter during the same calendar year for which
the initial notice of the violation was provided may be abated by the town, its
designee, or contractor(s) without further notice to the property owner.
   (C)   Any notice of violation issued pursuant to this section may be
appealed if written notice of appeal is served by the property owner to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer within five days of the date of notice of violation. The
appeal shall be heard before the Town Council at a special or regular meeting
of the Town Council. After the hearing, the Town Council shall issue its
written findings. The timely appeal of a notice of violation shall toll the
abatement period pending the issuance of a decision thereon.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 95.38 CUTTING AND REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   From the date the notice of violation is mailed or delivered, the property
owner has seven days to abate the violation. After seven days and if no timely
appeal is filed, the Department will perform a site inspection. If the property
owner has abated the violation, the Department will note in its file that the
property owner has come into compliance and the violation is closed. If the
property owner fails to abate the violation, then the property owner shall be
deemed to have granted permission to the town or its designated employee or
contractor to enter the property owner’s property in order to remove, or cause
to be removed, such weeds or rank vegetation so as to abate the violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-10-2022) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.39 STATEMENT OF COSTS INCURRED.
   (A)   In the event the town removes or causes to be removed such weeds or
other rank vegetation, the Clerk-Treasurer shall mail, via first class mail, an
invoice to the property owner reflecting the total costs incurred by the town
in abating the violation, administrative costs associated with abating the
violation, and a citation for the appropriate minimum fine as outlined in §
95.38.
   (B)   Within ten days of the date the invoice is mailed, the property owner
shall:
      (1)   Pay to the Clerk-Treasurer all amounts owed as reflected in the
invoice; or
      (2)   File a written appeal with the Clerk-Treasurer setting forth the
address of the property; the name of the property owner; the basis for the
appeal; and any documentation supporting the appeal.
   (C)   The basis for appeal may be:
      (1)   Cut and removal of weeds and rank vegetation was not performed on
the property;
      (2)   Cut and removal of weeds and rank vegetation was performed before
the time period set forth in the notice of violation;
      (3)   Amount of invoice is incorrect; or
      (4)   The property owner was not properly served legal notice.
   (D)   If an appeal is timely filed, the Clerk-Treasurer shall set the matter
for a hearing before the Town Council at a special or regular meeting of the
Town Council. After the hearing, the Town Council shall issue its written
findings. Any appeal from the written findings of the Town Council must be made
to a court of record in the county where the property is located within ten
calendar days of issuance of the Town Council’s written findings.
   (E)   In any proceeding under this subchapter, the town shall be entitled to
recover reasonable attorney fees and costs if it is the prevailing party.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 95.40 PAYMENT OF COSTS INCURRED AND LIEN.
   (A)   If the property owner fails to pay the invoice or file a written
appeal within ten days or fails to pay the invoice within ten days of an
adverse determination rendered by the Town Council or court of record, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall certify to the appropriate County Auditor the amount
incurred by the town to abate the violation, including the administrative costs
associated with abating the violation.
      (1)   If the cost of abatement is $0-$100, the administrative fees shall
be $100.
      (2)   If the cost of abatement is $101-$200, the administrative fees
shall be $200.
      (3)   If the cost of abatement exceeds $200, the administrative fee shall
be $300.
   (B)   The limitation on administrative fees shall not limit whatever might
be necessary in costs to collect the outstanding balances, including court
costs and attorneys’ fees. The Auditor shall place the certified amount on the
tax duplicate against such real estate and the amount shall be collected as
taxes are generally collected and when collected shall be disbursed to the town
for deposit in the General Fund.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
§
95.01 or who interferes in any way whatsoever with the due process of
enforcement of any of the provisions of §
95.01 or does not obey within the time fixed any order pursuant to §
95.01, and who shall be found guilty thereof, shall be fined $100 for first
offense, $150 for second offense, and $200 for third offense. Each motor
vehicle involved shall constitute a separate offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, § 7)
   (C)   Each day’s violation of §
95.02 shall constitute a separate offense punishable by fine, not exceeding
$100 for first offense, $150 for second offense, and $200 for third offense.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 2, § 2)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the terms of either §§
95.03 or
95.04 may be fined in any sum not exceeding $25 for each days’ violation
thereof.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 3, § 3)
   (E)   Any person violation the provisions of §§
95.20 through
95.34 or I.C. 36-7-9-28, for each day such violation continues, for each unsafe
building condition violation, such person, firm, or corporation as defined
herein, may be fined up to a maximum of $100 for each violation of §§
95.20 through
95.34.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 7)
   (F)   If the property owner fails to abate the violation within the time
period prescribed by the notice of violation given in §
95.37, the property owner shall be liable for a fine up to $1,000 subject to
the following.
      (1)   If the property owner has not previously violated §
95.37, the fine shall be at least $250.
      (2)   If the property owner has previously committed one violation of §
95.37, the fine shall be at least $500.
      (3)   If the property owner has previously committed two or more
violations of §
95.37, the fine shall be at least $750.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 8-4-2009; Ord. 2022-07, passed 5-10-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Ch. 33
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   AMUSEMENT DEVICES
      
112.   ALCOHOL
      
113.   CANNABIS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License requirement
   
110.03   Application procedure
   
110.04   Standards for issuance
   
110.05   Revocation procedure
   
110.06   Standards for revocation
   
110.07   Appeal procedure
   
110.08   Exhibition of identification
   
110.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
110.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
110.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
110.12   Prohibited solicitation
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 110.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Town
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 110.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the time he or she
is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 110.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
“NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 110.10 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in § 111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of § 111.10.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENT DEVICES
Section
   
111.01   Operation
   
111.02   Regulations
   
111.03   Licenses
   
111.04   Machines
   
111.05   Schedule of fees
   
111.06   Revoking of license
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to operate for
gain any table, alleys, galleries, or other devices as hereinafter named or
described, within the corporate limits of the town without first having
obtained from the Clerk-Treasurer of said town a license therefor duly signed
by the President of the Town Council and attested by the Clerk-Treasurer of
said town.
(Prior Code, Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 1) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No table, alley, galleries, or other device, as described in this
chapter, shall be operated in any room having screens, blinds, or other
obstructions which shall obstruct or obscure the view into such room or rooms
from the street adjacent thereto.
   (B)   No profane or obscene language shall be permitted to be used in said
room, and no intoxicated person or persons shall be allowed in said rooms where
any of said games are conducted or allowed to be operated.
   (C)   None of said games shall be permitted or operated between the hours of
12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., nor any part of Sunday.
(Prior Code, Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 2) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 LICENSES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation applying for a license as herein
provided shall make a written application with the Clerk-Treasurer of said town
and shall describe in said application the room or rooms wherein said games are
proposed to be held, and with such application shall deposit the fee for such
license as hereinbefore provided.
   (B)   Such licenses shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer, signed by the
President of the Town Council, and attested by the said Clerk-Treasurer and
shall be effective for one year from the date of its issuance, unless revoked
within said time by said Town Council.
   (C)   The said Town Council may, upon notice to the licensee herein, and
upon a hearing and sufficient cause, revoke any such license issued as herein
provided and a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or of any
statute of the state, on the part of the licensee herein or the permitting of
vicious and disorderly conduct in said rooms, shall be sufficient cause for the
revoking of such license.
(Prior Code, Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 3)
§ 111.04 MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to operate for
skill or amusement within the corporate limits of the town any machine
apparatus, table, or device which operates mechanically, manually, or
electrically upon the insertion of a coin or slug, without first having
procured a license to do so as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 4) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-12-1-19.1
§ 111.05 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   The following schedule of license fees shall apply to each machine,
apparatus, table, or device installed by any person, firm, or corporation to
operate within the corporate limits of the town.
      (1)   The license fee for the first two machines, apparatus, tables, or
devices, or any combination thereof, shall be $6 each per month.
      (2)   The license fee for three machines to five machines, as set out in
division (A)(1) above, shall be $3 each per month for the first two machines
and $3 each per month for the next three machines.
      (3)   The license fee for each machine between five and nine shall be $6
each per month for the first two machines; $3 each per month for the next three
machines; and $2 each per month for the next four machines.
   (B)   A written application for such license shall be filed with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, ten days before such license shall issue and state the name of
the applicant and place where such machine, apparatus, table, or device shall
be operated.
   (C)   Upon approval of such application by the Town Council, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a license to such applicant upon the payment of the fee
as herein provided.
   (D)   Such license shall expire at 12:00 a.m. on the last day of the month
for which such license was issued, and no new application need be made after
the first application has been approved by the Council, but no machines,
apparatus, table, or device shall operate any succeeding month after the
expiration of such monthly license, until the above prescribed fee has been
paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of said town and a new license for that month has
been issued, and such license shall not be transferable.
(Prior Code, Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 5)
§ 111.06 REVOKING OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued hereunder is subject to right which is hereby expressly
reserved, to revoke same by the Council after a hearing in which said licensee
shall be given a notice of three days, which shall state the time and place of
such hearing, should the licensee, directly or indirectly suffer or permit said
machine, apparatus, table, or device to be used in any way contrary to the
ordinances of the town and the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 6)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons violating this chapter or any provision thereof, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
in any sum not less than $25, nor more than $500, to which may be added
imprisonment for any period not exceeding six months, or both. Upon the
conviction of any offender for the violation of this chapter or any provision
thereof, the court shall order the Town Marshal of said town to seize any
machine, apparatus, table, or device licensed by this chapter, and involved in
such cause, the same not being in possession of any peace officer of this
state, and shall order the destruction of such machine, apparatus, table, or
device so seized by the Town Marshal of said town, and the court shall also
order the destruction of any machine apparatus, table, or device as may be in
custody of any peace officer of this state and involved in such cause.
(Prior Code, Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, § 7)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOL
Section
   
112.01   Permits
   
112.02   Requirements
§ 112.01 PERMITS.
   The consent of said town be, and the same is hereby given and granted unto
the proper legal authorities of the state, to issue liquor retailers’ permits
for the sale of alcoholic, spirituous beverages to applicants otherwise duly
qualified to premises within said town.
(Prior Code, Title 4, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 1)
§ 112.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   Said permits shall be issued according to the provisions per Indiana Code,
and to promote temperance, repealing laws and parts of laws, and declaring an
emergency,” approved March 11, 1935.
(Prior Code, Title 4, Article 3, Ch. 1, § 2)
CHAPTER 113: CANNABIS
Section
   
113.01   Synthetic cannabinoids
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”), such as K2,
Spice, bath salts, or similar products which contain one or more of the
following chemical compounds shall not be sold, marketed, or offered for sale
within the town:
      (1)   (6aR,10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetraydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   1-Pentyl-3-(1-napthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   1-Butyl-3-(1-napthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-073; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”) may not be
burned, incinerated, or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased, or controlled by the town.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of §
113.01 shall be subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction, as set
forth in I.C. 34-28-5-4. Accordingly, this endorsement shall be enforced by the
provisions of I.C. 34-28-5.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 9-7-2010)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
      
132.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Littering
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 LITTERING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTERING.
         (a)   The scattering about of trash;
         (b)   The carelessly discarding of trash; or
         (c)   Permitting the disorderly accumulation of trash within the
limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 2, § 1)
   (B)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
to commit the offense of littering within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 2, § 2)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Each day’s violation of §
130.01 shall constitute a separate offense punishable by a fine, not exceeding
$50.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 2, § 3) (Ord. 91-1, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Additional penalty provisions, see §
33.07
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
131.01   Loitering prohibited
§ 131.01 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford die person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall, or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passers-by in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop
motor vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division if
it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: CURFEW
Section
   
132.01   Curfew for minors
§ 132.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
      REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is a exemption to division (B) above that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) above that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (D) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no exemption in division (C) above is
present.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES AND PERMITS
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES AND PERMITS
Section
Building Codes
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Authority
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.06   Application for permits
   
150.07   Permit required
   
150.08   Other ordinances
   
150.09   Review of application
   
150.10   Inspections
   
150.11   Inspection assistance
   
150.12   Entry
   
150.13   Stop order
   
150.14   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.15   Workmanship
   
150.16   Violations
   
150.17   Right of appeal
   
150.18   Remedies
Redevelopment Commission
   
150.30   Department of Redevelopment established
   
150.31   Taxing District
   
150.32   Organization
   
150.33   Terms of office; election of officers
   
150.34   Duties and powers
Fees Schedule
   
150.45   Building permit fees
   
150.46   Violation fines
   
150.47   Application for appeals, conditional uses fee
   
150.48   Application for overall provisional and record plats fees
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODES
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of the Town of Jamestown, Indiana,” may be cited
as such, and will be referred to herein as “Jamestown Building Code.”
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, health, environment, public safety, and general welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
§ 150.03 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Whenever in this code, it is provided that anything must be done to
the approval of or subject to the direction of the Building Inspector or his or
her authorized representative, this shall be construed to give such officer
only the discretion of determining whether this code has been complied with;
and no such provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary
power as to what this code shall be, or power to require conditions not
prescribed by ordinances or to enforce this code in an arbitrary or
discriminatory manner.
   (C)   Any variance from adopted building rules are subject to approval under
I.C. 22-13-2-7(b).
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
§ 150.04 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alteration, repair,
use, occupancy, and addition to all buildings and structures, other than
industrialized building systems of mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4 in the town.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
§ 150.05 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following articles of 675 I.A.C. are hereby
incorporated by reference in this code and shall include later amendments to
those articles as the same are published in the State Register or the Indiana
Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 — Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   Indiana Building Code;
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14 — One- and Two-Family Dwelling Codes:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code;
         (b)   CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code and amendments; and
         (c)   Standards for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (3)   Article 16 — Plumbing Codes: Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17 — Electrical Codes: Indiana Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18 — Mechanical Codes: Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19 — Energy Conservation Code:
         (a)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20 — Swimming Pool Codes: Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes, and standards are on file in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
§ 150.06 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless
the application for a permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the
work to be done.
   (B)   In addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State Building
Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1, shall be
provided to the Building Inspector before issuance of a permit for construction
of a Class I building covered by such design release.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
§ 150.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The appropriate permit shall be obtained before beginning construction,
alteration, or repair of any building or structure, using forms furnished by
the Clerk-Treasurer, and all fees required by this code shall be paid to Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 7) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all other
ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for permits, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed in such ordinances.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 8) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Inspector/Planner
shall review all building permit applications to determine full compliance with
the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 9) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
§ 150.10 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building Inspector
shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as
are necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this code and
the terms of the permit.
   (B)   Re-inspections of work found to be incomplete or not ready for
inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as required.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 10) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
§ 150.11 INSPECTION ASSISTANCE.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, or his or her designated representative,
shall assist the Building Inspector in the inspection of fire suppression,
detection, and alarm systems and shall provide reports of such inspection to
the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 11) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
§ 150.12 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure, or premises in the town to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this code.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 12) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
§ 150.13 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Building Inspector may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on
any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and any such
persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Building
Inspector to proceed with the work.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 13) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.14 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure constructed after
the adoption of this code shall be issued unless such building or structure was
constructed in compliance with the provisions of this code. It shall be
unlawful to occupy any such building or structure unless a full, partial, or
temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 14) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.15 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 15) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure, other than fences, in the town or cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 16) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal any order of the Building
Inspector to the Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 36-7-4-919. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall have the right to appeal for a review by Certiorari to the
Circuit or Superior Courts of Boone County in accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 36-7-4-1003 or to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7. Either
appeal must be filed within 30 days after a final decision is rendered by the
Board.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 17) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
§ 150.18 REMEDIES.
   The Building Inspector shall, in the name of the town, bring actions in the
Circuit or Superior Courts of Boone County for mandatory and injunctive relief
in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by
the Building Inspector, and any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief
may be joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in this
code.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 18)
REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 150.30 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The Town Council now deems it to be in the best interest of the town and its
citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for rehabilitation, redevelopment, or
economic development of areas by private enterprise and the town by
establishing a department of redevelopment. The Town Council hereby establishes
a Department of Redevelopment controlled by a board of five commissioners to be
known as the Town Redevelopment Commission.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 5, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 150.31 TAXING DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to the Act, all of the territory within the corporate boundaries of
the town will be a taxing district for the purpose of levying and collecting
special benefit taxes for redevelopment purposes as provided in the Act. The
Town Council finds and determines that all of the taxable property within this
special taxing district is considered to be benefitted by the redevelopment
projects carried out under the Act to the extent of the special taxes levied
under the Act.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 5, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 150.32 ORGANIZATION.
   The Town Redevelopment Commission shall consist of five Commissioners and
one non-voting advisor appointed as follows.
   (A)   Three Commissioners shall be appointed by the President of the Town
Council.
   (B)   Two Commissioners shall be appointed by the Town Council.
   (C)   Each Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age.
   (D)   Each Commissioner must be a resident of the town.
   (E)   The Town Council President shall also appoint an individual to serve
as a non-voting advisor to the Town Redevelopment Commission.
   (F)   (1)   A Commissioner or a non-voting advisor appointed under the Act
may not have a pecuniary interest in any contract, employment, purchase, or
sale made by the Commission in exercise of its powers.
      (2)   However, any property required for redevelopment purposes in which
a Commissioner or non-voting advisor has a pecuniary interest may be acquired
but only by gift or condemnation.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 5, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 150.33 TERMS OF OFFICE; ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The term of office on the Town Redevelopment Commission shall be as follows.
   (A)   A member is entitled to serve a term as provided by I.C. 36-7-14-7.
The term of office of the original Commissioners of the Town Redevelopment
Commission shall commence from the date of their appointment until January 1,
2017.
   (B)   If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be appointed in the same manner
as the original Commissioner, and the successor shall serve for the remainder
of the vacated term.
   (C)   The Town Council President or Town Council that appointed the
Redevelopment Commissioner may summarily remove that Commissioner from office
at any time.
   (D)   (1)   The Redevelopment Commissioners shall hold a meeting for the
purpose of organization not later than 30 days after they are appointed and,
after that, each year on the first day of January that is not a Saturday, a
Sunday, or a legal holiday.
      (2)   They shall choose one of their members as President, another as
Vice President, and another as Secretary. These officers shall perform the
duties usually pertaining to their offices and shall serve from the date of
their election until their successors are elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 5, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 150.34 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The duties and powers of the Town Redevelopment Commission are as stipulated
in the Act, as amended.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 5, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-3-2015)
FEES SCHEDULE
§ 150.45 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   New residential structures.
      (1)   Application fee: $450;
      (2)   Structural review: $75 per residential unit (includes up to one
hour of time. Additional time billed at a rate of $75/hour);
      (3)   Site plan review for single- or two-family dwelling: $50 (includes
up to one-half hour of time. Additional time billed at a rate of $100/hour);
      (4)   Site plan review for multi-family dwellings: $200 (includes up to
two hours of time. Additional time billed at a rate of $100/hour);
      (5)   Temporary electric: $115;
      (6)   Footing, under slab, foundation: $115;
      (7)   Electric rough in: $55;
      (8)   Framing rough in: $55;
      (9)   HVAC rough in: $55;
      (10)   Plumbing rough in: $55;
      (11)   Insulation, energy efficiency: $150;
      (12)   Final: $190; and
      (13)   Re-inspection fee: the cost of the failed inspection plus
additional time (if applicable).
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 3, § A)
   (B)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   Shed, in-ground pool: $100; and
      (2)   Fence, mini barn, above-ground pool: $50.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 3, § B)
   (C)   New commercial/industrial structures (including accessory structures).
      (1)   Application fee: $100;
      (2)   Structural review: $150 (includes up to two hours of time.
Additional time billed at a rate of $75/hour);
      (3)   Site plan review: $200 (includes up to two hours of time.
Additional time billed at a rate of $100/hour);
      (4)   Temporary electric: $115;
      (5)   Footing, underslab, foundation: $190;
      (6)   Electric rough in: $115;
      (7)   Framing rough in: $115;
      (8)   HVAC rough in: $115;
      (9)   Plumbing rough in: $115;
      (10)   Insulation, energy efficiency: $150;
      (11)   Final: $275; and
      (12)   Re-inspection fee: the cost of the failed inspection plus
additional time (if applicable).
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 3, § C)
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 150.46 VIOLATION FINES.
   (A)   Residential structures (primary and accessory structures).
      (1)   There is a pre-construction fine for beginning or completing
construction without obtaining a permit of two times the amount of the permit
fee.
      (2)   This is in addition to the cost of the permit fee itself.
   (B)   Commercial/industrial structures (primary and accessory structures).
There is a pre-construction fine for beginning or completing construction
without obtaining a permit of three times the amount of the permit fee. This is
in addition to the cost of the permit fee itself.
   (C)   Other fines. There is a variance fine if a variance from the BZA is
required because construction resulted in a dimensional violation and did not
occur per the approved site plan or development plan. This fine is five times
the amount of the permit fee for the permit that was issued. This is in
addition to the application fee for the variance itself.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 3, § E) (Ord. 2020-09, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 150.47 APPLICATION FOR APPEALS, CONDITIONAL USES FEE.
   (A)   Variance: $50;
   (B)   Amendment, change of master plan, zone classification, or change of
text: $150;
   (C)   Change in development plan which previously has been approved: $50;
   (D)   Unit development plan:
      (1)   Less than 20 acres: $300;
      (2)   Twenty to 100 acres: $300 plus $2 per acre over 19 acres; and
      (3)   Over 100 acres: $5 per acre.
   (E)   Conditional use:
      (1)   Service stations (includes car wash, auto service center, and the
like): $250;
      (2)   Apartments, condominiums, mobile home parks, cooperatives, any type
of multi-family housing, shopping center, plus enclosed industrial use plans:
$250; and
      (3)   Other than divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) above: $100.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 3, § F) (Ord. 2020-09, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 150.48 APPLICATION FOR OVERALL PROVISIONAL AND RECORD PLATS FEES.
   (A)   Overall provisional plat: $100 plus $1 for each lot;
   (B)   Resubmitted overall: $100 plus $1 for each lot provisional plat (which
has previously been rejected); and
   (C)   Record plat: $100 for plat having less than ten lots; $50 plus $5 per
lot for having more than nine but less than 50 lots; $5 per lot for plat having
50 or more lots.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 3, § G) (Ord. 2020-09, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.18, or shall do any act prohibited therein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building Inspector,
or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the
Building Inspector in connection with the provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.18 for each such violation, failure, refusal, such person, firm, or
corporation shall be fined in any sum not less than $25, nor more than $300.
Each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first sentence of
this division (B) shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, § 19) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-3-1997)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
151.01   Street signs
   
151.02   Address numbers
   
151.03   Burning on a paved street
   
151.04   Cutting into streets or alleys
   
151.05   Obstruction of alleys
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 STREET SIGNS.
   (A)   Content, size, and aesthetics.
      (1)   Street signs shall contain the fully recognized (legal) street name
(or approved abbreviations) and include all required suffixes and/or direction
letters/numbers.
      (2)   Letter/number size shall be a minimum of six inches for street
names and four inches for suffix or direction letters/numbers.
      (3)   Signs shall be sized to allow for the use of the letters/numbers
noted above.
      (4)   The shape, color, and background shall be such that signs are
legible from any corner of an intersection and be of reflective finish. All
signs shall be in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local
standards.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 12, Ch. 1, § 1)
   (B)   Sign location and placement. Street name signs shall be posted at the
point where a street name changes and at each intersection. Signs shall have a
height of seven feet from the bottom edge of the sign to the adjacent grade.
Street name signs should be located on the street corner. However, factors such
as visibility or grade changes may affect street name locations.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 12, Ch. 1, § 2)
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 5-6-2003) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Size and content.
      (1)   Address numbers shall be a minimum of three inches in height for
residential applications and four inches in height for business and commercial
application. In all cases, the address numbers shall be legible from the
nearest public right-of-way.
      (2)   Address numbers shall contain the fully recognized (legal) address
number assigned to the property, including unit letters or numbers.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 12, Ch. 2, § 1)
   (B)   Location and placement.
      (1)   Address numbers shall be posted such that the number may be readily
seen from the street or public right-of-way.
      (2)   Address numbers posted on a building shall be located near the main
entrance door.
      (3)   Where distances or other circumstances prevent an address from
being posted on the building, address numbers may be posted on a mailbox or
appropriate post placed in the public right-of-way near the driveway access to
the building.
      (4)   Unit identifiers shall be posted for each unit in a location, which
is easily identifiable.
      (5)   Buildings which abut alleyways used by a motor vehicle shall also
display address numbers such that the number is visible from the alley side of
the building.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 12, Ch. 2, § 2)
   (C)   Responsibility. It is the responsibility of the property owner in
possession of any dwelling or place of business to display the designated
street numbers for that property.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 12, Ch. 2, § 3)
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 5-6-2003) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 BURNING ON A PAVED STREET.
   (A)   The burning of leaves and rubbish on the surface of any paved street
or alley shall be and the same is hereby prohibited and declared to be
unlawful.
(Prior Code, Title 6, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 1)
   (B)   The Street Commissioner and Town Marshal are hereby given authority to
enforce this section upon observing any violation hereof or written complaint
of any person.
(Prior Code, Title 6, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 2)
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 CUTTING INTO STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to cut into
or across, or to excavate in any street or alley in the town, for any purpose
without first obtaining a permit so to do from the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
(Prior Code, Title 6, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 4)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to obtain such permit shall
make a written application so to do and file the same with the Clerk-Treasurer,
by which application the application shall state therein when and where he,
she, or it intends to cut into or make any excavation in any such street or
alley and state his, hers, or its reasons for so doing, and deposit with the
Clerk-Treasurer a sum of money or furnish bond with sufficient surety to be
approved by the Clerk-Treasurer in such amount as shall be fixed by the Street
Commissioner as a guarantee that the applicant will restore the street or alley
to as good condition as the same may be before the making of such a cut or
excavation. Such amount shall equal $100 per square foot. After such
restoration shall be made, the deposit or bond shall be returned to the
applicant. In the event such restoration shall not be made within a reasonable
time to be determined by the Town Council, the restoration may be made by the
town, and the deposit applied to the expense or be recovered upon the bond. The
time limit to complete such restoration shall be 90 days.
(Prior Code, Title 6, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 5)
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 OBSTRUCTION OF ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place or
deposit any article, including tin cans, old iron, lumber, ashes or cinders,
garbage, dead animals, or any other article in the traveled portion of any
public alley in the town.
(Prior Code, Title 6, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 6) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any property owner who fails to abide by the provisions of §§
151.01 or
151.02 will be subject to a $25 fine.
      (2)   Subsequent violations of §§
151.01 or
151.02 shall be subject to additional fines of not less than $25 nor more than
$100. Each day a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Title 3, Article 12, Ch. 2, § 3)
   (C)   Violation of any of the provisions of §
151.03 may be punished by a fine of no more than $100 for the first offense,
$150 for the second offense, and $200 for the third offense.
(Prior Code, Title 6, Article 1, Ch. 1, § 3)
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 5-6-2003; Ord. 2009-7, passed 8-4-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Ch. 33
CHAPTER 152: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
152.01   Unified development ordinance adopted by reference
§ 152.01 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s unified development ordinance is adopted by reference, as
amended, as if fully incorporated herein.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-5-2017; Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-2-2018; Ord. 2018-5,
passed 4-3-2018; Ord. 2022-05, passed 5-10-2022; Ord. 2023-08, passed 7-11-
2023; Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-6-2024; Ord. passed 11- -2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   FUNDS
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
      
IV.   REZONING
      
V.   VACATIONS
      
VI.   STREET NAMES
      
VII.   SALE OF PROPERTY
      
VIII.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed    Description
                     Granting a cable franchise to Galaxy American
                     Communications, LLC, or the corporation to be formed by
96-7     2-4-1997    Phoenix for the purpose of succeeding to the rights of the
                     ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, Title 4, Article 1, Ch. 1)
                    
 
TABLE II: FUNDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
--       -           Creating a Promotional Fund.
                     (Prior Code, Title 6, Article 3, Ch. 1)
97-2     2-4-1997    Creating a Cash Reserve Fund for the electric utility.
2002-3   6-4-2002    Creating the Park and Recreation Fund.
2010-3   4-6-2010    Creating a Cumulative Fire Fund.
2012-2   5-1-2012    Creating a Rainy Day Fund.
                     (Prior Code, Title 6, Article 3, Ch. 3)
2016-5   6-7-2016    Creating a LOIT Special Distribution Fund.
                     (Prior Code, Title 6, Article 3, Ch. 2)
2017-1   1-3-2017    Creating a Public Safety Local Income Tax Fund.
                     (Prior Code, Title 6, Article 3, Ch. 4)
2021-02  5-18-2021   Creating the ARPA Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
2021-06  8-3-2021    Creating Fund No. 301, the RDC TIF Fund.
2022-09  9-6-2022    Creating Fund an Economic Development LIT Fund.
2022-12  11-1-2022   Creating Fund No. 2256 for the unrestricted portion of
                     opioid settlement funds.
2022-13  11-1-2022   Creating Fund No. 2257 for the restricted portion of
                     opioid settlement funds.
2023-10  9-5-2023    Creating Fund Nos. 2404, 2405, and 2406 for receiving
                     funds from grants.
2023-09  10-3-2023   Creating Fund No. 4445 for RDC funds.
                    
 
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
93-3     1-4-1994    Annexing approximately 49.49 acres in Section 10.
96-6     12-3-1996   Annexing approximately 14.37 acres in Section 15.
97-5     10-14-1997  Annexing approximately 15.90 acres in Section 15.
2001-1   5-3-2001    Amending Ord. 96-6 to make the described property a part
                     of Ward 2.
2002-1   6-4-2002    Annexing the property located at 631 North High Street.
2004-2   7-6-2004    Annexing approximately 4.0811 acres in Section 10.
2004-7   12-7-2004   Annexing a cemetery and church in Section 10.
2004-8   12-7-2004   Annexing several properties in the Freedom Acres Minor
                     Plat.
2005-1   5-2-2005    Annexing several small parcels of land in Section 15.
2006-1   3-7-2006    Annexing three separate properties in Sections 3 and 10.
2006-2   3-7-2006    Annexing approximately 105 acres in Sections 10 and 11.
2008-1   2-12-2008   Annexing approximately 9.865 acres in Section 10.
2015-2   2-3-2015    Annexing approximately 1.41 acres in Section 15.
2023-07  7-11-2023   Annexing approximately 50.35 acres in Section 3.
2024-04  5-7-2024    Annexing approximately 46.29 acres consisting of three
                     parcels of land at 6170 and 6202 S. Darlington Road.
                    
 
TABLE IV: REZONING
 
Ord. No.          Description
2014-2   7-1-2014 Rezoning approximately 40 acres to I-Industrial.
2018-3   3-6-2018 Rezoning approximately 1.81 acres from AG-Agriculture to GC-
                  General Commercial.
2021-01  2-9-2021 Rezoning the property at 37 East Main Street from CF-
                  Community Facilities to DT-Downtown Mixed Use.
2023-03  2-7-2023 Rezoning the property at 7510 State Road 75 from CF-
                  Community Facilities to GC-General Commercial.
                 
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
96-4     10-1-1996      Vacating an alley at the petition of Larry L Crist.
99-11    7-6-1999       Vacating an alley at the petition of Russell L. Voils.
                       
 
TABLE VI: STREET NAMES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
2009-4   6-2-2009       Naming Cemetery Street and North Lebanon Street.
                        Dedicating the right-of-way, naming International
2015-6   10-6-2015      Drive, and setting the speed limit of said street at 30
                        mph.
                       
 
TABLE VII: SALE OF PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
2000-3   6-6-2000       Selling Lot Nos. 11 and 12 in Maple Hill Addition.
                       
 
TABLE VIII: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
                  Supplemental agreement authorizing the town to join the
--      -         Indiana Municipal Power Agency.
                  (Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 3, §§ 1 through 5)
-       4-20-1982 Power sales contract with Indiana Municipal Power Agency.
                  (Prior Code, Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 4, §§ 1 through 6)
-       5-6-1996  Agreement for use of water well.
2001-4  7-3-2001  Power sales contract with Indiana Municipal Power Agency
                  making first amendment to the original contract.
2011-1  4-5-2011  Agreement with the Indiana Municipal Power Agency to
                  participate in the Retrofit Program.
-       7-5-2011  Agreement with Ray’s Trash Service Incorporated.
2021-04 6-8-2021  Power sales contract with Indiana Municipal Power Agency
                  making the third amendment to the original contract.
                 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites              Code Section
1-1-1-5                 10.04
1-1-1-7                 10.12
1-1-1-8                 10.06
1-1-4-5                 10.05
1-1-5-1                 10.11
1-1-6-1                 10.08
1-1-7-1                 95.37
3-10-7-3                30.03
4-21.5-3-7              150.17
5-3-1                   34.15—
                        34.17
5-4-1-18                93.09
5-11-10-1.6             34.30
5-14-1.5-5              30.07
5-22                    34.29
6-1.1-41                93.14
6-9-39-7                90.01
9-18.1-14-11            73.25
9-21-16-7               72.01
15-16-7-2               95.24
15-17-2-3               90.01
15-17-2-47              90.01
22-9-1-4 et seq.        92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.        92.01
22-9.5-2-2              92.02
22-9.5-2-3              92.02
22-9.5-2-4              92.02
22-9.5-2-8              92.02
22-9.5-2-9              92.02
22-9.5-2-11             92.02
22-9.5-3                92.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.        92.09
22-9.5-4-8              92.10
22-9.5-5                92.02
22-9.5-5-1              92.03
22-9.5-6                92.02;
                        92.10
22-12-1-3               95.25
22-12-1-19.1            111.04
22-13-2-7               150.17
22-13-2-7(b)            150.03
22-15-3-1               150.06
22-15-4                 150.04
33-36-2-1               33.01
33-36-2-1 et seq.       33.01
34-28-5                 113.99
34-28-5-4               113.99
36-1-3                  51.01
36-1.5-1-1 et seq.      90.02
36-1-6-2                53.33
36-4-6-9                30.03
36-4-6-11(a)            30.03
36-4-6-13               30.03
36-4-6-14—17          30.03
36-4-9-12               30.02
36-4-11-4               30.04
36-5-2-2                30.01
36-5-6-6                30.04
36-7-4-919              150.17
36-7-4-1003             150.17
36-7-9-1 et seq.        95.23;
                        95.27
36-7-9-1—36-7-9-29    95.20
36-7-9-2                95.24
36-7-9-4                95.24
36-7-9-28               95.99
36-7-10.1 et seq.       95.35
36-7-10.1-1—36-7-10.1-95.20
36-7-14-7               32.33;
                        150.33
36-8-12-13              91.04
36-9-23 et seq.         55.02
36-9-30 et seq.         51.01;
                        55.02
36-10-3 et seq.         93.06;
                        93.16
36-10-3-3               93.01;
                        93.02
36-10-3-4(b)            93.02
36-10-3-4(c)            93.02
36-10-3-4.1             93.02
36-10-3-5(a)(1-4)       93.02
36-10-3-5(c)-(d)        93.02
36-10-3-12              93.07
36-10-3-14              93.08
36-10-3-15              93.08
36-10-3-17              93.10
36-10-3-18              93.11
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code                        2024 Code
Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, 1      30.01
Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2      30.02
Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, 3      30.03
Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, 4      30.04
Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, 6      30.05
Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, 7      30.06
Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, 8      30.07
Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, 9      31.01;
                                  31.99
Title 1, Article 1, Ch. 1, 10     31.01
Title 2, Article 1, Ch. 1, 10     72.04
Title 2, Article 3, A             150.45
Title 2, Article 3, B             150.45
Title 2, Article 3, C             150.45
Title 2, Article 3, E             150.46
Title 2, Article 3, F             150.47
Title 2, Article 3, G             150.48
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 1      150.01
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 2      150.02
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 3      150.03
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 4      150.04
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 5      150.05
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 6      150.06
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 7      150.07
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 8      150.08
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 9      150.09
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 10     150.10
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 11     150.11
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 12     150.12
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 13     150.13
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 14     150.14
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 15     150.15
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 16     150.16
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 17     150.17
Title 2, Article 4, Ch. 1, 18     150.18;
                                  150.99
Title 2, Article 5, Ch. 1, 1      150.30
Title 2, Article 5, Ch. 1, 2      150.31
Title 2, Article 5, Ch. 1, 3      150.32
Title 2, Article 5, Ch. 1, 4      150.33
Title 2, Article 5, Ch. 1, 5      150.34
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 1      90.01
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2A     90.02
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2B     90.03
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2C     90.04
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2D     90.05
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2E     90.06
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2F     90.07
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2G     90.08
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2H     90.09
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2I     90.10
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2J     90.11
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2K     90.12
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2L     90.13
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2M     90.14
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2N     90.15
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2O     90.16
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2P     90.17
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 3      90.99
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, 1      90.30
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, 2      90.31
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, 3      90.32
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, 4      90.33
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, 6      90.33
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, 5      90.34
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, 7      90.35
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, 8      90.36
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2, 9      90.37
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 10     90.99
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2A, 1     90.50
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2A, 2     90.51
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2A, 3     90.52
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2A, 4     90.53
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2A, 5     90.53
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 2A, 6     90.99
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 3, 1      90.18
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 3, 2      90.99
Title 3, Article 1, Ch. 1, 1      91.02
Title 3, Article 2, Ch. 1, 2      91.03
Title 3, Article 2, Ch. 1, 3      32.01
Title 3, Article 3, Ch. 1, 2      32.15
Title 3, Article 3, Ch. 1, 3      32.15
Title 3, Article 3, Ch. 1, 4      32.15
Title 3, Article 3, Ch. 2, 1      32.16
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1         95.20
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, 1      95.21
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, 2      95.22
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, 3      95.23
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, 4      95.24
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, 5      95.24
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, 6      95.25
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, 7      95.26;
                                  95.99
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, 8      95.27
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, 9      95.28
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 1, 10     95.29
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 2, 11     95.30
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 2, 12     95.31
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 2, 13     95.32
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 2, 14     95.33
Title 3, Article 4, Ch. 2, 15     95.34
Title 3, Article 5, Ch. 3, 1      73.01;
                                  73.31
Title 3, Article 6, Ch. 1, 1      54.01
Title 3, Article 6, Ch. 1, 2      54.99
Title 3, Article 6, Ch. 1, 3      54.01
Title 3, Article 6, Ch. 2, 1      54.01
Title 3, Article 6, Ch. 2, 2      54.01
Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 2, 2      95.04;
                                  91.99
Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 3 1       95.03
Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 3, 3      95.99
Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 4, 1      95.05
Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 4, 2      95.05
Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 4, 3      95.05
Title 3, Article 7, Ch. 4, 4      95.05
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1A     93.01
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1B     93.02
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1C     93.03
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1D     93.04
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1E     93.05
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1F     93.06
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1G     93.07
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1H     93.08
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1I     93.09
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1J     93.10
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1K     93.11
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1L     93.12
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1M     93.13
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1N     93.14
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1O     93.15
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 1, 1P     93.16
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 2, 1      93.30
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 3, 1      93.45
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 3, 2      93.46
Title 3, Article 8, Ch. 3, 3      93.47
Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, 1      95.01
Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, 2      95.01
Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, 3      95.01
Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, 4      95.01
Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, 5      95.01
Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, 6      95.01
Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 1, 7      95.99
Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 2, 1      95.02;
                                  130.01
Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 2, 2      95.99;
                                  130.01
Title 3, Article 9, Ch. 2, 3      130.99
Title 3, Article 10, Ch. 1, 2     33.02
Title 3, Article 10, Ch. 1, 3     33.03
Title 3, Article 11, Ch. 1        91.04
Title 3, Article 12, Ch. 1, 1     151.01
Title 3, Article 12, Ch. 1, 2     151.01
Title 3, Article 12, Ch. 2, 1     151.02
Title 3, Article 12, Ch. 2, 2     151.02
Title 3, Article 12, Ch. 2, 3     151.02;
                                  151.99
Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, 1     94.01
Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, 2     94.02
Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, 3     94.03
Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, 4     94.04
Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, 5     94.05
Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, 6     94.06
Title 3, Article 13, Ch. 1, 7     94.99
Title 3, Article 14, Ch. 1, 1     50.04
Title 3, Article 14, Ch. 1, 2     50.04
Title 4, Article 1, Ch. 1         TSO Table I
Title 4, Article 1, Ch. 1, 1      34.01
Title 4, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2      34.01
Title 4, Article 1, Ch. 1, 3      34.01
Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, 1      111.01
Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, 2      111.02
Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, 3      111.03
Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, 4      111.04
Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, 5      111.05
Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, 6      111.06
Title 4, Article 2, Ch. 2, 7      111.99
Title 4, Article 3, Ch. 1, 1      112.01
Title 4, Article 3, Ch. 1, 2      112.02
                                  54.31;
Title 4, Article 21.5             54.57;
                                  54.58
                                  54.31;
Title 4, Article 22               54.57;
                                  54.58
Title 5, Article 1, Ch. 1, 1      50.01
Title 5, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2      50.02
Title 5, Article 1, Ch. 1, 3      50.03
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7A     52.015
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C1    52.016
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C2    52.017
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C3    52.018
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C4    52.019
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C5    52.020
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C6    52.021
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C7    52.022
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C8    52.023
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C9    52.024
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C10   52.025
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C11   52.026
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C12   52.027
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C13   52.028
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C14   52.029
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C15   52.030
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C16   52.031
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C18   52.032
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C19   52.033
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C20   52.034
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C21   52.035
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C22   52.036
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C23   52.037
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C24   52.038
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C25   52.039
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C26   52.040
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C27   52.041
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C28   52.042
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C29   52.043
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 1, 7C30   52.044
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, 1      52.001
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, 2      52.001
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, 3      52.001
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, 4      52.001
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, 5      52.001
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, 6      52.001
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, 7      52.001
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 2, 8      52.001;
                                  52.999
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 3, §§ 1TSO Table VIII
Title 5, Article 2, Ch. 4, §§ 1TSO Table VIII
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 1      54.45
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 2      54.46
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 3      54.47
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 4      54.48
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 5      54.59
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 6      54.50
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 7      54.51
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 8      54.52
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 9      54.53
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 10     54.54
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 11     54.55
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 12     54.56
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 14     54.57
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 15     54.58
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 1, 16     54.49
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 1      54.15
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 2      54.16
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 3      54.17
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 4      54.18
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 5      54.19
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 6      54.20
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 7      54.21
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 8      54.22
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 9      54.23
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 10     54.24
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 11     54.25
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 14     54.99
Title 5, Article 3, Ch. 2, 16     54.99
Title 5, Article 3,               55.01
Ch. 3, 1
Title 5, Article 3,               55.02
Ch. 3, 5
Title 5, Article 3, 12            54.26
Title 5, Article 3, 13            54.27
Title 5, Article 3, 14            54.28
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 1      53.01
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 3      53.03
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 4      53.04
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 5      53.05
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 7      53.07
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 8      53.08
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 9      53.09
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 10     53.10
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 11     53.11
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 13     53.13
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 14     53.14
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 15     53.15;
                                  54.29
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 16     53.16;
                                  54.30
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 2, 17     53.17;
                                  54.31
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, 1      53.30
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, 2      53.31
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, 3      53.32
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, 4      53.33
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, 5      53.34
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, 6      53.34
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, 7      53.35
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, 8      53.35
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, 9      53.36
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, 10     53.37
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, 11     53.38
Title 5, Article 4, Ch. 3, 12     53.99
Title 6, Article 1, Ch. 1, 1      151.03
Title 6, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2      151.03
Title 6, Article 1, Ch. 1, 3      151.99
Title 6, Article 1, Ch. 1, 4      151.04
Title 6, Article 1, Ch. 1, 5      151.04
Title 6, Article 1, Ch. 1, 6      151.05
Title 6, Article 2, Ch. 1, 1      34.02
Title 6, Article 2, Ch. 1, 2      34.02
Title 6, Article 3, Ch. 1         TSO Table II
Title 6, Article 3, Ch. 2         TSO Table II
Title 6, Article 3, Ch. 3         TSO Table II
Title 6, Article 3, Ch. 4         TSO Table II
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, 1      Ch. 74, Schd. I
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, 2      71.01
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, 3      71.02
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, 5      Ch. 74, Schd. II
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, 6      Ch. 74, Schd. III
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, 7      72.01
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, 8      72.02
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, 9      72.03
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, 11     Ch. 74, Schd. III
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, 12     Ch. 74, Schd. II
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 1, 13     72.05
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 2, 1      70.01
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 2, 2      70.01
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 2, 3      70.01
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 3, 1      Ch. 74, Schd. IV
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 3, 2      Ch. 74, Schd. IV
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 3, 3      Ch. 74, Schd. IV
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 3, 4      70.02
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 1      71.03
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 1      71.15
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 2      71.16
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 3      71.17
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 4      71.18
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 5      71.19
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 6      71.20
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 7      71.21
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 8      71.22
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 9      71.23
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 10     71.24
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 11     71.24
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 12     Ch. 74, Schd. V
Title 7, Article 1, Ch. 5, 13     71.99;
                                  Ch. 74, Schd. V
Title A1, Ch. 1, 10               10.99
Title A1, Ch. 1, 11               10.99
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
94-2     12-21-1994  52.019
98-4     6-2-1998    91.04
98-10    12-1-1998   91.02
98-12    12-28-1998  32.16
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
-        - -            TSO Table VIII
-        - -            TSO Table II
91-1     - -            130.99
                        72.03;
91-2     - -            72.04;
                        Ch. 74, Schd. III
-        4-20-1982      TSO Table VIII
92-2     8-4-1992       30.04
93-3     1-4-1994       TSO Table III
-        5-6-1996       TSO Table VIII
96-1     6-4-1996       52.069
96-2     7-8-1996       90.18;
                        90.99
96-4     10-1-1996      TSO Table V
96-5     11-12-1996     53.02
96-6     12-3-1996      TSO Table III
96-7     2-4-1997       TSO Table I
97-2     2-4-1997       TSO Table II
                        150.01—
97-3     6-3-1997       150.17;
                        150.99
97-5     10-14-1997     TSO Table III
98-1     3-3-1998       54.49
98-2     3-3-1998       54.31;
                        54.58
98-5     6-29-1998      34.29
98-6     6-29-1998      34.24—
                        34.28
98-8     6-29-1998      34.23
99-1     3-2-1999       30.06
                        93.30;
99-2     3-2-1999       93.47;
                        93.45;
                        93.46
99-5     3-2-1999       52.034;
                        53.15
99-6     4-6-1999       72.05;
                        Ch. 74, Schd. II
99-7     5-4-1999       71.99; Ch. 74, Schd. V
99-11    7-6-1999       TSO Table V
2000-3   6-6-2000       TSO Table VII
2000-7   9-5-2000       30.07
2000-6   10-10-2000     95.20—
                        95.34
2001-1   5-3-2001       TSO Table III
2001-2   6-5-2001       31.01;
                        31.99
2001-3   6-5-2001       31.01
2001-4   7-3-2001       TSO Table VIII
2001-6   1-8-2002       54.01;
                        54.99
2002-1   6-4-2002       TSO Table III
2002-2   6-4-2002       30.03
2002-3   6-4-2002       TSO Table II
2002-5   1-7-2003       95.05
2002-6   1-7-2003       53.02
                        90.50—
2003-1   3-4-2003       90.52;
                        90.99
                        151.01;
2003-2   5-6-2003       151.02;
                        151.99
2003-3   7-1-2003       54.17
2004-2   7-6-2004       TSO Table III
2004-4   10-5-2004      52.066
2004-5   10-5-2004      54.50
2004-6   10-5-2004      53.01;
                        53.02
2004-7   12-7-2004      TSO Table III
2004-8   12-7-2004      TSO Table III
2005-1   5-2-2005       TSO Table III
2005-2   11-1-2005      32.15
2006-1   3-7-2006       TSO Table III
2006-2   3-7-2006       TSO Table III
2006-4   3-7-2006       73.31
2008-1   2-12-2008      TSO Table III
2009-1   3-3-2009       53.02;
                        53.04
2009-02  3-3-2009       54.50
2009-3   4-7-2009       95.01
2009-4   6-4-2009       TSO Table VI;
                        Ch. 74, Schd. IV, V
                        33.01—
                        33.05;
2009-7   8-4-2009       90.99;
                        91.99;
                        95.99;
                        151.99
2009-8   9-8-2009       91.03
2010-4   3-2-2010       50.04
2010-5   3-2-2010       31.01
2010-3   4-6-2010       TSO Table II
2010-6   9-7-2010       113.01;
                        113.99
2011-1   4-5-2011       TSO Table VIII
-        7-5-2011       TSO Table VIII
2012-2   5-1-2012       TSO Table II
2012-4   12-4-2012      30.03
2014-1   3-4-2014       93.47
2014-2   7-1-2014       TSO Table IV
                        32.30—
2015-1   2-3-2015       32.34;
                        150.30—
                        150.34
2015-2   2-3-2015       TSO Table III
2015-6   10-6-2015      TSO Table VI
2015-8   12-1-2015      52.001;
                        52.999
2015-9   12-1-2015      90.31
2016-4   6-7-2016       32.16
2016-5   6-7-2016       TSO Table II
2016-6   6-28-2016      35.01—
                        35.09
2016-9   10-3-2016      92.01—
                        92.10
2017-1   1-3-2017       TSO Table II
2017-8   8-1-2017       34.01
2017-12  10-3-2017      91.01
2017-10  12-5-2017      152.01
2017-11  12-5-2017      55.01
2018-1   1-2-2018       152.01
2018-3   3-6-2018       TSO Table IV
2018-5   4-3-2018       152.01
2018-6   7-3-2018       52.068
2018-11  9-20-2018      54.47
                        54.18;
2018-15  12-4-2018      54.19;
                        54.56
                        53.30—
2019-2   3-5-2019       53.38;
                        53.99
2019-3   3-5-2019       30.01
-        6-1-2019       90.07
2020-03  3-6-2020       30.03
2020-09  11-10-2020     150.45—
                        150.48
2020-12  12-28-2020     93.02
2021-01  2-9-2021       TSO Table IV
2021-02  5-18-2021      TSO Table II
2021-04  6-8-2021       TSO Table VIII
2021-06  8-3-2021       TSO Table II
2021-07  9-7-2021       73.15—
                        73.31
2021-05  11-2-2021      Ch. 74, Schd. II
2022-05  5-10-2022      152.01
                        95.24;
2022-07  5-10-2022      95.35—
                        95.40;
                        95.99
2022-03  6-7-2022       52.056—
                        52.069
2022-04  6-7-2022       53.50;
                        53.51
                        33.01;
2022-06  6-7-2022       33.04;
                        33.05;
                        33.07
2022-09  9-6-2022       TSO Table II
                        53.02;
2022-08  10-4-2022      53.06;
                        53.12
2022-12  11-1-2022      TSO Table II
2022-13  11-1-2022      TSO Table II
2022-14  11-1-2022      34.03
2022-15  12-6-2022      30.03
2022-16  12-6-2022      30.03
2023-16  - -2023        30.03
2023-03  2-7-2023       TSO Table IV
2023-2   3-7-2023       51.01—
                        51.08
2023-05  4-4-2023       52.055—
                        52.069
2023-07  7-11-2023      TSO Table III
2023-08  7-11-2023      152.01
2023-10  9-5-2023       TSO Table II
2023-09  10-3-2023      TSO Table II
2023-13  10-3-2023      34.15—
                        34.22
2023-14  - -2023        54.47
2023-15  11-14-2023     30.03
2023-17  12-28-2023     34.30
2024-02  2-6-2024       152.01
2024-03  3-5-2024       34.15—
                        34.22
                        52.067;
2024-05  4-2-2024       53.01;
                        54.50
2024-04  5-7-2024       TSO Table III
-11      - -2024        152.01
2024-07  7-2-2024       34.04
2024-07  7-2-2024       34.04
                       
 
