JASONVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-17, passed 12-29-2022,
and Res. 2022-16, passed 12-29-2022; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2023 Acts, Pamphlet No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.17   Prohibited acts included causing and permitting
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “City
Code” for which designation “Code of Ordinances”, “Codified Ordinances”, or
“Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Jasonville, Indiana, or the area within the territorial
limits of the outside of the city over which the city has jurisdiction or
control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory provision.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Common Council.
      COUNCIL. The Common Council of the City of Jasonville, Indiana.
      COUNTY. The county of Greene, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and the statutes of
the state, the ordinances of the city, and, when appropriate, any and all rules
and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUST and SHALL. The acts referred to are mandatory.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by
law, an AFFIRMATION may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the words
SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the whole or
a part of such building or land.
      PERSON. Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manger, lessee, agent, servant, officer, or employee of
any of them.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action, and
evidences of debt.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes real property.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property lines intended for the use of pedestrians.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STREET. Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs, or other public ways in the city which may have been or
may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public
property so designated in any law of this state.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, include any person
who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
      WRITTEN. Includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multigraphed, or
otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5) (2003 Code, § 1.04.010)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that chapter,
subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 2003 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(2003 Code, §
     )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.17 PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDED CAUSING AND PERMITTING.
   Whenever in the ordinances of the city any act or omissions is made
unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, abiding, abetting,
suffering, or concealing the fact of such act or omissions.
(2003 Code, § 1.04.060)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City boundaries adopted by reference
   
11.02   Annexations
§ 11.01 CITY BOUNDARIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s official map is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this chapter as fully as if the same were attached hereto and incorporated
herein, and is on public display in City Hall; and filed with the offices of
the County Auditor and Recorder. The corporation boundaries set forth therein
shall constitute the official corporation boundaries of the city.
(2003 Code, § 7.04.010)
§ 11.02 ANNEXATIONS.
   Annexations and disannexations are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this chapter as fully as if the same were attached hereto and
incorporated herein, and filed in the offices of the County Auditor and
Recorder and in City Hall. Two copies of said references are on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection.
(2003 Code, § 7.04.020)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
31.   COMMON COUNCIL
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   CITY POLICIES
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
35.   FINANCES
CHAPTER 30: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
30.01   Mayor
   
30.02   Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.03   Compensation
§ 30.01 MAYOR.
   (A)   Designation of Mayor. The chief executive officer of the city shall be
the Mayor.
(2003 Code, § 2.04.010)
   (B)   Term of office. The term of office of the Mayor is four years,
beginning at noon on January 1, after his or her election, and continuing until
his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(2003 Code, § 2.04.020)
   (C)   Election. The Mayor shall be elected by voters of the whole city.
(2003 Code, § 2.04.030)
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Mayor shall exercise the powers and duties as
prescribed by state law.
(2003 Code, § 2.04.040)
§ 30.02 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Designation of Clerk-Treasurer. The City Clerk and City Fiscal Officer
shall be the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(2003 Code, § 2.12.010)
   (B)   Term of office. The term of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years,
beginning at noon on January 1, after his or her election and continuing until
his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(2003 Code, § 2.12.020)
   (C)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the voters of the
whole city.
(2003 Code, § 2.12.030)
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Clerk-Treasurer shall exercise the powers and
duties as prescribed by state law.
(2003 Code, § 2.12.040)
§ 30.03 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Elected officials. The annual salary of elected officials shall be
established annually by ordinance.
(2003 Code, § 2.20.010)
   (B)   Other officials and employees. The Common Council shall provide
reasonable compensation for the city-appointed officers and employees, such
compensation to be established annually by ordinance.
(2003 Code, § 2.20.020)
   (C)   Deferred Compensation Plan.
      (1)   The Common Council hereby establishes the city’s deferred
compensation plan for the voluntary participation of all eligible employees.
      (2)   The city will utilize the state’s plan document, its service
manager, and its investment options.
      (3)   The city hereby appoints the Clerk-Treasurer as the administrator
of the plan and authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to make deductions from the pay
of employees who voluntarily participate, and to make such other arrangements
as are necessary to implement the plan. It is understood that other than the
incidental expense of collecting the employee’s deferrals and other minor
administrative matters, there is to be no cost to the city or contribution by
the city to this plan.
(2003 Code, § 2.20.030)
(Res. 2001-2, passed 2-26-2001)
CHAPTER 31: COMMON COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Designation of Common Council
   
31.02   Membership
   
31.03   Election
   
31.04   Term of office
   
31.05   Powers and duties
   
31.06   Specific duties
   
31.07   Meeting times
   
31.08   Rules and procedure
   
31.09   Appropriation of funds
   
31.10   Participation in associations
   
31.11   Purchasing agency
§ 31.01 DESIGNATION OF COMMON COUNCIL.
   The legislative body of the city shall be the Common Council.
(2003 Code, § 2.08.010)
§ 31.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by I.C. 36-4-6-5 instead of I.C. 36-4-6-4,
and accordingly, the legislative body of the city shall be composed of four
members elected from the districts established pursuant to I.C. 36-4-6-5(b) and
one at-large member.
   (B)   If this chapter is later repealed, then I.C. 36-4-6-4 shall again
apply to the city.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed to forward a certified copy of
this chapter to the Secretary of the county’s Election Board.
(2003 Code, § 2.08.020) (Ord. 82-2, passed 4-12-1982)
§ 31.03 ELECTION.
   (A)   Election districts. The city hereby elects to divide itself into four
election districts pursuant to the authority of I.C. 36-4-6-5. The legislative
body (also know as the Common Council) of the city shall be composed of four
members elected from the districts herein established and one member elected
at-large.
(2003 Code, § 2.32.010)
   (B)   Districts designated.
      (1)   The election districts are designated as follows:
         (a)   Ward 1 shall be composed of all that part of the city north of
the centerline of Main Street;
         (b)   Ward 2 shall be composed of all that part of the city south of
the centerline of Main Street and east of the centerline of Meridian Street;
         (c)   Ward 3 shall be composed of all that part of the city south of
the centerline of Main Street, west of the centerline of Meridian Street, and
east of the centerline of Park Street; and
         (d)   Ward 4 shall be composed of all that part of the city south of
the centerline of Main Street and west of the centerline of Park Street.
      (2)   All city elections shall be based upon the subdivisions as said
city into wards, as hereinabove set forth.
(2003 Code, § 2.32.020)
   (C)   Notification of the county’s Election Board. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
send a certified copy of this chapter to the Secretary of the county’s Election
Board and the Auditor of the county.
(2003 Code, § 2.32.030)
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 8-9-1982)
§ 31.04 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office for Common Council members is four years beginning at
noon on January 1, after his or her election and continuing until a successor
(s) is elected and qualified.
(2003 Code, § 2.08.030)
§ 31.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Common Council shall exercise the powers and duties as prescribed by
state law.
(2003 Code, § 2.08.040)
§ 31.06 SPECIFIC DUTIES.
   The Common Council is approved to rule as governing board of the city’s
Sewage Department.
(2003 Code, § 2.08.041) (Res. 1980-17, passed 9-8-1980)
§ 31.07 MEETING TIMES.
   (A)   The regular monthly meeting of the Common Council shall be the second
Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   The regular meeting of the Gas Utility Board will be held immediately
preceding the regular Council meeting on the second Monday of each month.
(2003 Code, § 2.08.050) (Res. passed 5-6-1969; Ord. 1980-3, passed 2-11-1980)
§ 31.08 RULES AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Quorum. The Mayor and a majority of the Council shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business.
   (B)   Standing committees. The several standing committees of the Council
shall be appointed by the Mayor at the first meeting of the Common Council in
January of each year and shall serve for one year, and shall consist of three
members each.
   (C)   Procedure. The business presented to the Council, by the Mayor, shall
be referred to the proper Committee without debate, which Committee shall
report thereon at the next regular meeting of the Council or at any such time
as may be directed by the Mayor and Common Council.
   (D)   Order of business. The following order of business and rules are
hereby adopted for the government of the Common Council:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading of minutes;
      (3)   Roll call for the presentation of matters to be considered;
      (4)   Reports of officers:
         (a)   Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   Attorney;
         (c)   Chief of Police;
         (d)   Street Commissioner; and
         (e)   Chief of Fire Department.
      (5)   Reports of standing committees:
         (a)   Claims and Accounts;
         (b)   Streets and Alleys;
         (c)   Water and Light;
         (d)   Auditing;
         (e)   Judiciary;
         (f)   Public Utilities;
         (g)   Printing; and
         (h)   Building.
      (6)   Reports of special committees;
      (7)   Filing of claims against the city;
      (8)   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions;
      (9)   Unfinished business;
      (10)   New business;
      (11)   Miscellaneous business;
      (12)   Ordinances on second or third reading; and
      (13)   Adjournment.
   (E)   Rules.
      (1)   Rule 1. When the roll call is called for the presentation of
business, the member called may present ordinances, resolutions, or other
matters for the consideration of the Council. Ordinances and resolutions must
be in writing and shall be read by title only and referred to the proper
committee without debate. The Council may order a return to any order of
business after the regular order has been completed. The title of every article
must clearly set forth its contents.
      (2)   Rule 2. There shall be the following standing committees for the
Council:
         (a)   Judiciary;
         (b)   Auditing;
         (c)   Claims and Accounts;
         (d)   Streets and Alleys;
         (e)   Water and Lights;
         (f)   Finance;
         (g)   Public Utilities;
         (h)   Printing; and
         (i)   Building.
      (3)   Rule 3. All reports from committees shall be in writing and signed
by the committee. If the committee is divided, two reports may be made. The
written report of a committee may be waived with the consent of a majority of
the Council.
      (4)   Rule 4. Committees shall return all papers referred to and make a
report on same at the next regular meeting after they are introduced. The
Council may, at its discretion, extend the time for making reports or may call
upon the committee for an immediate report upon any matter under consideration;
provided that no committee be compelled to make a report before the regular
time.
      (5)   Rule 5. Every article referred to a committee shall, after being
read by title by the member introducing it, be handed by him or her to the
Clerk-Treasurer, who shall note thereon the committee to which it is referred
and whose duty it shall also be to have all such articles delivered by the
Marshal to the Chairperson of the committee to which they are referred within
48 hours after the adjournment of every meeting of the Council.
      (6)   Rule 6. It shall be the duty of the Committee on Claims and
Accounts to examine and report upon the correctness of all claims and accounts
of a discretionary character referred to them by the Council. This Committee
shall prepare this report before the Council convenes. All claims and accounts
to be allowed at a meeting must have been approved and signed by the
Chairperson of the Committee prior to the call to order.
      (7)   Rule 7. It shall be the duty of the Committee on Water and Lights
to give special attention to the water supply and the lighting of the city and
perform such other duties pertinent thereto and may be directed to exercise by
the Mayor or Council.
      (8)   Rule 8. It shall be the duty of the Committee on Judiciary to
investigate the various ordinances and resolutions referred to it from time to
time and make a report to the Council, and to perform such other duties
pertinent thereto as may be directed to exercise by the Mayor or Council.
      (9)   Rule 9. It shall be the duty of the Auditing Committee to audit the
books of the various departments and perform such other duties pertinent
thereto.
      (10)   Rule 10. It shall be the duty of the Committee on Streets and
Alleys to give special attention to the streets and alleys and all matters in
connection therewith, and perform all other duties pertinent thereto.
      (11)   Rule 11. It shall be the duty of the Committee on Finance to
report all ordinances making the annual tax levy and making appropriations
other than for the allowance of accounts and claims and all other matters
pertinent thereto.
      (12)   Rule 12. Every motion shall, if the presiding officer demands it,
be reduced to writing, except motions to adjourn, to reconsider the previous
question, to lay on the table, to postpone, to commit, to ascend, to concur,
and to suspend the rules.
      (13)   Rule 13. A motion to adjourn and a motion or reconsider are
privileged questions and are debatable. A business which by law or necessity
must be considered or transacted in a certain time will be considered a
question of privilege. A motion to suspend the rules is a question of
privilege, is not debatable, and can not be amended except with the consent of
the Mayor.
      (14)   Rule 14. Where a question has once been decided, any member voting
with the majority may move a reconsideration thereof at the same time or at the
next regular meeting thereof.
      (15)   Rule 15. All ordinances shall be in writing and shall, upon
introduction, be read by title only, but such title shall clearly set forth the
nature of the contents and the ordinance shall then be referred to the proper
committee. No ordinance shall be passed upon the day of its introduction except
by unanimous consent and a motion to suspend the rules.
      (16)   Rule 16. Every ordinance shall be read through at its second
reading and at this time it is subject to amendments, no amendments except to
strike out shall be in order after the second reading, unless by unanimous
consent. An ordinance failing to receive a majority of votes on its second
reading shall be considered as still on second reading unless stricken from the
files or otherwise disposed of. An ordinance may be stricken from the files any
time by a vote of two-thirds of all members or by a majority vote after it has
passed its second reading.
      (17)   Rule 17. An ordinance on third reading or final passage shall be
read by title, but should any members desire, it shall be read through as
amended. Failing to receive a majority of all votes on the third reading, an
ordinance is lost and shall be stricken from the files unless the vote be
reconsidered.
      (18)   Rule 18. An ordinance once passed may be amended or repealed by a
subsequent ordinance; a resolution may be rescinded by a subsequent resolution.
      (19)   Rule 19. The general rules of parliamentary law, so far as
applicable, are to be considered the rules of the Council, unless they conflict
with some of the rules herein prescribed.
      (20)   Rule 20. No one not a member shall be permitted to address the
Council, except with the consent of the Mayor.
      (21)   Rule 21. When a member desires to address the Council, he or she
shall rise to his or her feet and address the Mayor as Mr. or Ms. Chairperson
and on being recognized may address the Council, and he or she shall confine
himself or herself to the subject in debate and avoid personality. The Mayor
shall not recognize any member unless he or she shall be in his or her proper
seat and ask recognition in the proper way.
      (22)   Rule 22. When the Mayor or any member is addressing the Council,
no member shall engage in private discourse or walk across or leave the room
unnecessarily.
      (23)   Rule 23. No member shall speak more than twice on the question
without leave of the Council; nor more than once until every member choosing to
speak shall have spoken. Speeches shall be limited to five minutes unless
further time be granted by the Council. Answering questions not to be
considered apart of the speakers time.
      (24)   Rule 24. Every member must vote upon every question unless
disqualified by law or excused by the Council. Any member may change his or her
vote before the announcement of the result by the Mayor.
      (25)   Rule 25. If any member in any way transgresses these rules, it is
the duty of the Mayor or any member to call him or her to order. In case of a
call to order, the alleged offender shall at once take his or her seat until
the point of order has been decided. Willful and repeated transgressions shall
constitute an offense against the Council and shall be punished by reprimand or
removal from office.
      (26)   Rule 26. These rules may be annulled or amended by a majority vote
of all members of the Council; provided, that no vote on any amendment or
resolution to annul shall be taken until at least two weeks’ notice of such
intention shall have been given.
   (F)   Any member of the Council or any city officer whose duty it shall be
to attend the meetings of said Common Council, who shall absent himself or
herself from any regular meeting of said Council, shall forfeit to the city the
sum of $1 for each and every meeting he or she shall be absent, the amount of
said forfeit to be deducted and kept out of the allowance made to him or her
for his or her services; provided, that this rule shall not apply if such
absentee shall render an excuse satisfactory to the majority of the members of
the Council.
   (G)   It shall be the duties of the members of said Council, the Mayor,
Clerk-Treasurer, City Attorney, Secretary of the city’s Board of Health, Chief
of Police, Street Commissioner, and Fire Chief to be present at each regular
meeting of such Council.
(2003 Code, § 2.08.060) (Ord. 4, passed 6-10-1912)
§ 31.09 APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.
   The Common Council is hereby authorized to appropriate necessary funds to
provide membership for the city in state and national associations of a civic,
educational, or governmental nature which have as their purpose the betterment
of municipal operations.
(2003 Code, § 2.28.010)
§ 31.10 PARTICIPATION IN ASSOCIATIONS.
   The city is hereby authorized to participate through duly designated
representatives in the meetings and activities of such associations, and the
Common Council is authorized to appropriate necessary funds to defray the
expenses of such representatives in connection therewith pursuant to I.C. 36-1-
3-2.
(2003 Code, § 2.28.020) (Ord. 1982-5, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 31.11 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   Establishment of purchasing agency. The Common Council hereby
determines that it is the purchasing agency for the city.
(2003 Code, § 2.40.010)
   (B)   Designation of purchasing agents. The Common Council hereby designates
the following persons to serve as purchasing agents for the city:
      (1)   Each elected official;
      (2)   City department heads; boards, and commissions; and
      (3)   Such city employees as are designated from time to time, in
writing.
(2003 Code, § 2.40.020)
   (C)   Purchasing of U.S. manufactured supplies. Supplies manufactured in the
United States shall be specified for all city purchases and shall be purchased
unless the city determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
not in the public interest.
(2003 Code, § 2.40.030)
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 6-8-1998; Ord. 1998-16, passed 12-14-1998)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Departments
   
32.01   Departments established
   
32.02   Powers and duties
   
32.03   Employees policies and procedures
   
32.04   Volunteer Fire Department regulations
   
32.05   Fire protection agreement
   
32.06   Reserve Police Unit regulations
Boards and Commissions
   
32.20   City Parks and Recreation Board
   
32.21   City Economic Development Commission
   
32.22   City Plan Commission
   
32.23   Board of Public Works and Safety
   
32.24   City Housing Authority
   
32.25   Police Pension Board
   
32.26   Water Works Board of Directors
   
32.27   Water and Sewer Board
DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.01 DEPARTMENTS ESTABLISHED.
   The following departments are hereby established in the city:
   (A)   Police Department;
   (B)   Police Reserves;
   (C)   Street Department;
   (D)   Sanitation Department;
   (E)   Water Department;
   (F)   Sewage Department;
   (G)   Volunteer Fire Department;
   (H)   Park and Recreation Department; and
   (I)   Development Department.
(2003 Code, § 2.16.010)
§ 32.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The departments established by §
32.01 shall perform the functions assigned to them by statute and ordinance.
(2003 Code, § 2.16.020)
§ 32.03 EMPLOYEES POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Holidays.
      (1)   All full-time employees be given the following paid holidays:
         (a)   New Year’s Day;
         (b)   Martin Luther King’s Birthday;
         (c)   President’s Day;
         (d)   Good Friday;
         (e)   Memorial Day;
         (f)   Independence Day;
         (g)   Labor Day;
         (h)   Columbus Day;
         (i)   Veteran’s Day;
         (j)   Thanksgiving Day;
         (k)   Friday after Thanksgiving; and
         (l)   Christmas Day.
      (2)   The day preceding and following holidays of scheduled workdays must
be worked to qualify for paid holidays. If holiday falls during a scheduled
vacation, an extra day for holiday will be received.
   (B)   Vacations.
      (1)   Vacations shall be earned when employee performs services an
average of 35 hours per week, at regular pay.
 
First year: one-half day earned per month worked                 6 days
Second year: one day earned per month worked                     12 days
Ten years: three additional days on anniversary date of hire     15 days
Fifteen years: three additional days on anniversary date of hire 18 days
Twenty years: two additional days on anniversary date of hire    20 days
Maximum:                                                         4 weeks
 
      (2)   One week of vacation must be taken as a unit, remaining vacation
days may be taken singularly or consecutively, ten days’ notice before date.
Vacations may not carry over from year to year. Under state law, employee may
not be paid in lieu of vacation.
   (C)   Termination (death, firing, leaving). Upon severance from service, an
employee not having taken vacation shall be paid for his or her vacation at the
time of separation from employment, pro-rated according to time worked and
salary.
   (D)   Sick days. Five days per year; extended sick days up to eight weeks
while under a doctor’s care after special consideration. Catastrophic illness
will come before the Board to reach a decision. A doctor’s release is required
before returning to work. Sick days may not be carried from year to year.
   (E)   Hiring. Applications will be taken. The city is an equal opportunity
employer. Applications will be reviewed and interviews given to qualified
persons.
   (F)   Travel. The Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer, Council members, department heads,
and other authorized personnel are allowed travel privileges. Travel expenses,
lodging, and per diem costs shall be allowed when necessary. Mileage rates will
be established annually by the Council.
   (G)   Minimum wage and compensatory time. The current minimum wage standard
will be complied with. Compensatory time off is permitted for overtime worked,
including lunch hours not taken. An extra day off per month is granted to
compensate for not using city-provided insurance.
   (H)   Utility work rules.
      (1)   The working hours for all utility office forces will be from 8:00
a.m. until 5:00 p.m. No personnel will be in office before 8:00 a.m. or after
5:00 p.m. unless authorized by Council. One hour allowed for lunch;
      (2)   Working hours for other utility workers will be from 7:30 a.m.
until 4:30 p.m. One hour for lunch;
      (3)   Overtime work will be held to a minimum;
      (4)   Premises will be kept clean at all times. It is the responsibility
of each worker to clean up his or her own debris;
      (5)   Utility-owned vehicles will be used for company use only;
      (6)   Workers will not leave job site unless the department head is
notified;
      (7)   All departments will help each other when needed and their own
schedule permits;
      (8)   Shop employees will be permitted in office on business only;
      (9)   Mail to be opened by person to whom addressed or to the authorized
person in each department;
      (10)   Profanity will not be used in office at any time;
      (11)   Full cooperation will be expected between gas and water personnel
at all times;
      (12)   Extra office help will work three collection days and two days per
month, each department (for a total of 28 hours each utility) each month. Any
other time worked will be so directed by the Clerk-Treasurer;
      (13)   The business of each department will be discussed at the utility
office and not all over the city;
      (14)   A ten day notice to the Mayor must be given before vacation time
can be taken;
      (15)   Stamps, paper products, gasoline, oil, fittings, and the like, are
not to be used for employee personal use. They are the property of the utility;
and
      (16)   The rules stated above are to be strictly enforced. Any violation
of the above is just cause for dismissal.
   (I)   Utility Clerk compensation. When a regular Utility Clerk is on
vacation or ill and unable to work, also at any time extra help is needed that
the Clerk-Treasurer if agreeable, the Clerk-Treasurer may work the job of the
Utility Clerk and be paid over and above his or her regular city and utility
salaries, at a rate the same as the regular Utility Clerk salary.
   (J)   Personal financial responsibility. All city employees are expected to
maintain personal finances consistent with normal business practices. As part
of this policy, he or she should keep utility bills and other obligations to
the city on a current basis.
   (K)   Bereavement leave. Employees wishing to take time off due to the death
of an immediate family member should notify his or her supervisor immediately.
Up to three days of paid bereavement leave will be provided to regular full-
time employees. Bereavement leave is calculated on the base pay rate at the
time of absence, and will not include any special forms of compensation.
Bereavement leave will normally be granted unless there are unusual business
needs or staffing requirements. Employees may, with their supervisor’s
approval, use any available paid leave for additional time off as necessary.
IMMEDIATE FAMILY is defined as the employee’s spouse, parent, child, sibling;
the employee’s spouse’s parent, child, or sibling.
(2003 Code, § 2.16.030) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. 259, passed 11-5-1973; Res.
passed 5-20-1974; Ord. 1981-14, passed 11-9-1981; Ord. 1986-6, passed 11-10-
1986; Ord. 1987-3, passed - -1987; Ord. 2000-3, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 2005-9,
passed 12-12-2005)
§ 32.04 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The object of the city’s Volunteer Fire Department shall be
the prevention of fire and for the protection of life and property within the
limits of the city. The following regulations are hereby established.
   (B)   Organization.
      (1)   The Department shall consist of a Chief, Assistant Chief, Captain,
and other officers as the Chief and Council may deem necessary for the
effective operation of the Department.
      (2)   The Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor for an indefinite period
of time, and his or her tenure of office shall depend upon his or her good
conduct and efficiency. The Chief shall be technically qualified by training
and experience and shall have ability to command men and women and hold their
respect and confidence. He or she shall be removed only for just cause and
after a public hearing before the Common Council.
      (3)   The Chief shall be held accountable to the Mayor only and shall
make written and verbal reports thereto as the Mayor may require. All other
Department and Company officers shall be accountable to the Chief only.
      (4)   The Assistant Chief and Captain and all other Department and
Company officers shall be appointed by the Chief. Such officers shall be
accountable only to the Chief and subject to removal by him or her.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Chief.
      (1)   The Chief shall formulate a set of rules and regulations to govern
the Department, and shall be responsible to the Mayor for the personnel,
morale, and general efficiency of the Department.
      (2)   The Chief shall determine the number and kind of companies of which
the Department is to be composed and shall determine the response of such
companies to alarms.
      (3)   The Chief shall, at least once a month, conduct suitable drills or
instruction in the operation and handling of equipment, first aid and rescue
work, salvage, a study of buildings in the city, fire prevention, water
supplies, and all other matters generally considered essential to good lighting
and protection of life and property from fire.
      (4)   The Chief is hereby required to assist the proper authorities in
suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or causing to be investigated
the cause, origin, and circumstances of all fires.
      (5)   The Chief is hereby empowered to notify the State Fire Marshal in
cases where suspicion of fire hazards exist.
      (6)   Any person so served with a notice to abate any fire hazards shall
comply therewith and promptly notify the Chief.
      (7)   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel, financial, and other
information about the work of the Department.
      (8)   The Chief shall report monthly to the Mayor and Common Council, if
requested, and include the condition of the apparatus and equipment; the number
of fires during the month, their location and cause, and the date of same and
loss occasioned thereby; the number and purpose of all other runs made; and the
number of members responding to each fire or other run, and any changes of
membership.
      (9)   The Chief shall make a complete annual report to the Mayor and
Common Council within one month after the close of the fiscal year, and such
report to include the information specified in division (C)(7) above, together
with comparative data from previous years, and recommendations for improving
the effectiveness of the Department.
   (D)   Membership.
      (1)   Persons eligible for election to membership in the Volunteer
Department shall be persons over the age of 18 years and under the age of 55
years old residing and working within a six-mile radius of the city’s fire
station, who have passed a physical examination provided at the Department’s
expense. Retirement age is 70 years.
      (2)   Membership is limited to 20 active members, with an additional
number of trainees at the discretion of the Fire Chief.
      (3)   All members must have a physical once a year.
      (4)   When any person serves 15 or more years active service, becomes
physically incapacitated, or retires because of age, he or she shall be retired
from active membership in the Department, but shall retain all social
privileges of the active membership.
   (E)   Equipment.
      (1)   The Department shall be equipped with such apparatus and other
equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and
properly protect life and property from fire.
      (2)   Recommendations of apparatus and equipment needed shall be made by
the Chief, and after approval by the Common Council, shall be purchased in such
manner as may be designated by the Common Council.
      (3)   All equipment of the Department shall be safely and conveniently
housed in such places as may be designated by the Common Council. Such places
shall be heated during the winter months.
      (4)   Suitable arrangement of equipment shall be provided to turn in an
alarm and for notifying all members of the Department so that they may promptly
respond. Pagers that are issued to firefighters are for official use in
notifying members of an emergency and are not to be used for personal purposes.
Violation of this will automatically place the violating member on probation
and subject to dismissal from the Department.
      (5)   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the Department.
      (6)   No person shall handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the
Department unless accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an
officer or authorized member of the Department.
      (7)   The Common Council is hereby authorized to enter into agreements or
contracts with neighboring townships, nearby communities, cities and towns, or
governing bodies or other organizations with or without fire protection or to
establish a mutual aid system.
      (8)   No apparatus shall be hired out or permitted to leave the city
limits except in response to a call for aid at a fire in a neighboring
community without the consent of the Fire Chief or his or her assistant. The
officer in charge of the Department shall have power to assign equipment for
responses to calls for outside aid in accordance with division (E)(7) above,
and in other cases only when the absence of such equipment will not jeopardize
protection in this city.
   (F)   Regulations.
      (1)   Each member of the Department shall be issued a badge designating
his or her rank.
      (2)   All motor equipment and all personal cars of Department members
shall have right-of-way over all other traffic when responding to an alarm.
      (3)   Each member of the Department driving a car shall be issued a
suitable insignia to be attached to the car.
      (4)   No person shall drive any vehicle over a fire hose except upon
specific orders from the Chief or other officer in charge where the hose is
used.
      (5)   No person shall park any vehicle or otherwise cause any obstruction
to be placed within 25 feet to the front of the entrance to any fire station or
other place where fire apparatus is stored, or within ten feet of any hydrant.
      (6)   No unauthorized person with any vehicle shall follow within 600
feet of any apparatus belonging to the Department, nor park any vehicle within
600 feet of a fire.
      (7)   No person shall maliciously turn in, or cause to be turned in, a
false alarm.
   (I)   Penalties and special powers.
      (1)   Any person violating any provisions of divisions (C)(6), (E)(5),
(E)(6), (F)(2), (F)(5), (F)(6), or (F)(7) shall, upon conviction, pay a fine of
not less than $10 or more than $100 for each offense.
      (2)   All regularly appointed members of the Department are hereby given
the necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions
of this chapter.
      (3)   It is hereby made the special duty of the Chief of Police and/or
other peace officers who may be on duty and available for fire duty, to respond
to all fire alarms and assist the Department in the protection of life and
property, in regulating traffic, maintaining order, and in enforcing observance
of all sections of this chapter.
   (G)   Social officers, functions, and duties.
      (1)   The Department may elect a President, Vice-President, Secretary,
and Treasurer to be known as social officers. Such officers may be elected in
any manner and for any term the membership may decide, and his or her duties
shall be to arrange for and manage any or all social functions sponsored by the
Department.
      (2)   The functions and duties of said social officers shall in no way
interfere with those of the regular Department officers who are charged with
responsibility for all fire service activities of the Department.
      (3)   A current set of bylaws governing the social affairs of the
Department shall be maintained and followed by the social officers.
(2003 Code, § 2.16.040) (Ord. 2015-4, passed - -2015)
§ 32.05 FIRE PROTECTION AGREEMENT.
   The following provisions constitute an agreement between the city and the
Volunteer Fire Department, as authorized by the state code.
   (A)   The Department shall maintain adequate firefighting services
including, but not limited to, operators, apparatus, and equipment so that
reasonable fire protection will be provided to the private and public property
of the city.
   (B)   (1)   In consideration for the services, apparatus, and equipment to
be rendered pursuant to division (A) above, the city shall provide a building
in which the apparatus and equipment of the Department may be maintained and
the members of the Department may meet and train on a regular basis; provided,
however, that such facility shall be used only for these purposes and
maintained by the Department.
      (2)   Any rental fees or income generated by any other use of the
building shall be deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer and credited to the
General Fund. Further, the city shall pay to the Department:
         (a)   A quarterly clothing allowance equal to $50 per Department
member;
         (b)   EMC Insurance Company;
         (c)   Each member will be paid quarterly in accordance with the city
salary ordinance. Members will be paid for participation based on the Fire
Department point system;
         (d)   A quarterly automobile allowance equal to $50 per Department
member; and
         (e)   A quarterly salary equal to $8.75 per Department member.
   (C)   The parties acknowledge that the Department is wholly owned by the
city, is an unincorporated Volunteer Fire Department, and that this agreement
between the parties is executed and delivered solely for the purpose of
complying with a directive from the state’s Board of Public Accounts.
   (D)   This agreement shall bind the parties in perpetuity as is, unless
amended specifically by ordinance.
(2003 Code, § 2.16.050) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2015-3, passed - -2015)
§ 32.06 RESERVE POLICE UNIT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Police Reserve Unit which shall be known and
designated as the Reserve Police Unit of the city and hereinafter referred to
as “the Unit”.
   (B)   The Unit shall consist of no more than six persons, nor less than four
persons, each of whom shall be subject to the same physical, mental, age, and
residential requirements as members of the regularly constituted Police
Department of the city.
   (C)   Members of the Unit shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the Common Council and shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and Common
Council. Any member may at any time, with or without cause, with or without a
hearing, be discharged by the Mayor and Common Council.
   (D)   To the extent that funds for the following are appropriated, members
of the Unit may: receive a uniform allowance; receive compensation for time
lost from other employment because of court appearances; and be insured for
life, accident, and sickness coverage. This shall not imply any duty by the
city to appropriate any funds for the above.
   (E)   The members of the Unit shall have the same police powers as members
of the regularly constituted Police Department of the city; provided, however,
that the members of the Unit shall have such powers only when on duty pursuant
to the call of the Chief of Police. The call may be either by arrangement of
normal duty hours which may be assigned by the Chief of Police or by the
activation of the Unit or any member thereof by the Chief of Police in an
emergency.
   (F)   The Chief of Police shall determine the program for training members
of the Unit. The Unit may adopt its own bylaws and rules and regulations with
the approval of the Mayor and Common Council and may amend the same thereafter
only with the approval of the Mayor and Common Council. Such bylaws, rules, and
regulations shall be subordinate at all times to the ordinances of the city and
the rules and regulations of the Chief of Police and orders of the Mayor.
   (G)   The Unit shall have a Chief and a Sergeant who shall be appointed by
the Mayor and approved by the Common Council. The Chief shall at all times be
subordinate to the Chief of Police.
   (H)   Promptly after being appointed and prior to taking the oath of office,
each member of the Unit shall execute and deliver to the Clerk-Treasurer an
instrument in a form approved by the City Attorney releasing the city from all
liability for any injury or death of such member in the line of duty as a
member of the Unit.
(2003 Code, § 2.16.060) (Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-2-1979)
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.20 CITY PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   Under the applicable provisions of the state code, there is hereby
created a Department of Parks and Recreation composed of a Board of Parks and
Recreation, a Superintendent, and such other personnel as the Board of Parks
and Recreation may determine.
   (B)   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall be composed of four members,
no more than two of whom shall be from the same political party. As a term
expires, each new appointment shall be made by the appropriate officials for
term of four years. All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a
member shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed. If an
appointment for a new term is not made by the appropriate officials by the
first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy
occurs, the appropriate officials shall appoint a new member for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The legal name of the Board shall be the Jasonville City Park and
Recreation Board.
   (D)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a
President and Vice-President. The Vice-President shall have the authority to
act as the President of the Board during the absence or disability of the
President. The Board may select a Secretary from within or without its own
membership.
   (E)   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to
acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have the powers and duties in I.C. 36-10-3.
   (F)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of city government as prescribed by the state’s Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
(2003 Code, § 2.24.010) (Ord. passed 7-5-1977)
§ 32.21 CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Under the applicable provisions of the state code, there is hereby
created a Municipal Department of Development, which shall be controlled by the
Commission known as the city’s Economic Development Commission.
   (B)   The City Economic Development Commission shall consist of three
members to be appointed as follows:
      (1)   One member shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring
February 1, 1985;
      (2)   One member shall be appointed by the Common Council, for a term
expiring February 1, 1984; and
      (3)   One member shall be appointed by the County Council for a term
expiring February 1, 1983.
   (C)   Upon completion of the original terms of office, subsequent appointees
shall serve terms of four years with each term to expire on February 1, of the
appropriate year.
   (D)   Any vacancies occurring on the Commission shall be filled by
appointment by the authority having made the appointment in which the vacancy
occurs and such appointment shall be made for the completion of any unexpired
term.
   (E)   Commissioners shall serve without compensation, but the Common Council
may provide in the Development Department budget for reimbursement of travel,
telephone, and other expenses incurred by the Commissioners in the performance
of their duties.
   (F)   The appointing authorities shall make their appointments in the manner
prescribed by law and shall furnish certificates of appointment for each person
appointed, and such appointees shall qualify as required by law.
   (G)   The Commission shall meet within 30 days after its creation and shall
elect a President, Vice-President, and Secretary and shall immediately
undertake the duties imposed upon such Commissioners by law. The Commissioners
shall hold reorganization meetings during February of each year and the
Commission and its members shall have all the powers and duties imposed by
statute and this section and by amendments to either such statute or ordinance.
The Commission may adopt such bylaws and rules as are not prohibited by law and
as are found desirable to facilitate the conduct of its business and the
accomplishment of its purpose.
   (H)   Any Commissioner having a financial interest in, or having been
employed by, any firm or corporation contracting or negotiating with the
Commission shall disclose his or her interest to the Commission and such
disclosures shall be made a part of the records of the Commission. Any contract
or agreement in which a Commissioner has a financial interest or any contract
or agreement with any firm or corporation in which a Commissioner has direct
financial interest shall be void from its inception, unless the nature of the
financial interest has been made a part of the record of the Commission. No
Commissioner shall vote on any matter in which he or she has a financial
interest.
   (I)   Any person, firm, or corporation whose request for the issuance of
economic development commission bonds has been successful and for whom such
bonds have been issued, shall pay a fee of $100, payable from bond proceeds, to
the city. Such fee shall be in addition to the reimbursement of any costs
incurred by the city in the issuance of bonds.
   (J)   (1)   The city may enter into a transfer agreement between the city
and Jasonville Local Development Corporation, whereby the city agrees to sell
the section 601 real estate to the Corporation for the amount determined by the
United States Government Act by and through the U.S. Department of Agriculture
Rural Development.
      (2)   The Mayor is authorized to execute all documents to effectuate the
above transfer agreement and the consequent real estate sale.
(2003 Code, § 2.24.020) (Ord. 81-6, passed 4-13-1981; Ord. 1981-7, passed 4-13-
1981)
§ 32.22 CITY PLAN COMMISSION.
   Under the authority of I.C. 36-7-4, the Greene County Plan Commission is
designated as the City Plan Commission.
(2003 Code, § 2.24.030) (Ord. 206, passed 8-21-1967)
§ 32.23 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby re-established pursuant
to I.C. 36-4-9-5.
   (B)   The members of the Board of Public Works and Safety are the Mayor and
two persons appointed by the Mayor. A member may hold other appointive
positions in the city government during his or her tenure. The Clerk-Treasurer
is the Clerk of the Board pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-8.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall exercise the powers and
duties as prescribed by state law.
(2003 Code, § 2.24.040)
§ 32.24 CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the state code, there is hereby re-
established the need for a Housing Authority, and thereby recreates the same.
(2003 Code, § 2.24.050) (Res. passed 7-18-1966; Res. passed 12-23-1976).
§ 32.25 POLICE PENSION BOARD.
   The Common Council does hereby elect to create and establish a Police
Pension Board, said Board of Trustees of which shall be composed of three
members, namely the Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer, and Chief of Police, as set forth
in the state code.
(2003 Code, § 2.24.070) (Ord. 180, passed 3-2-1964)
§ 32.26 WATER WORKS BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   Established. The city hereby establishes a Department of Water Works
under I.C. 8-1.5-4-2 and adopts the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-4-1 and of the
chapter in which it is contained.
   (B)   Membership. The Board of Directors of the Department shall consist of
three Directors, not more than two of whom shall be from the same political
party.
   (C)   Term. The Directors shall serve for a term of four years, however, the
initial term of Director I shall terminate on December 31, 1983, the initial
term of Director II shall terminate on December 31, 1984, and the initial term
of Director III shall terminate on December 31, 1985.
(2003 Code, § 2.24.080) (Ord. 1982-10, passed 8-9-1982)
§ 32.27 WATER AND SEWER BOARD.
   (A)   The Water Board’s powers, duties, functions, and obligations be and
they are hereby consolidated and assigned to the Sewer Board.
   (B)   The Sewer Board be and it is hereafter known as the city’s Water and
Sewer Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Each Water Board member be compensated for services rendered to this
date in the amount of $250.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 5-10-2010)
CHAPTER 33: CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Authorized payments by the Clerk-Treasurer
   
33.02   Disaster Recovery Plan
   
33.03   Supply request policy
   
33.04   Credit card policy
   
33.05   County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
33.06   Incident command system
   
33.07   Reporting theft to the state
   
33.08   Internal control standards
   
33.09   Automated clearing house payments; electronic funds transfers
   
33.10   Disclosure of public records; fee schedule
Grievance Procedure
   
33.20   Purpose
   
33.21   Filing a complaint
   
33.22   Investigation of the complaint
   
33.23   Disposition of complaints
Anti-Nepotism Policy
   
33.35   Purpose
   
33.36   Established
   
33.37   Adopting state requirements
   
33.38   Additional provisions
   
33.39   Majority of legislative body required to act
   
33.40   Application
   
33.41   Violation
   
33.42   State provisions adopted
Drug Free Workplace
   
33.55   Overview
   
33.56   Policy
   
33.57   Prohibited drugs
   
33.58   Alcohol
   
33.59   Reporting violations
   
33.60   Employee rehabilitation
   
33.61   Testing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 AUTHORIZED PAYMENTS BY THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Authorized expenses. The City Council (the “Council”) approves and
authorizes payments to be made by the Clerk-Treasurer in advance of formal
allowance by the Council or other board or commission of jurisdiction for the
following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or political subdivision of the United States
government; or
         (c)   The government of the state of Indiana; or
         (d)   An agency or department or branch of the government of the state
of Indiana, including a body politic and corporate of the state;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; or
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses incurred and identified by the Community Events
Commission;
      (13)   Refunds, which are in consequence of a class or program
cancellation or for event or program deposits as may be made by the Parks and
Recreation Department;
      (14)   Vendor payments in support of recreation, or special events
programs;
      (15)   Payments from the traffic violation agency fund;
      (16)   Payment of the funeral benefits outlined in I.C. 36-8-6-9.8(4) to
heirs or estates of deceased retired members of the metropolitan Police
Department;
      (17)   Payments to such vendors or service providers, public or private,
which have provided services or goods to the municipality and for which a delay
of payment incurs penalties or late payment charges;
      (18)   Payments made from the information and communications technology
fund, provided such payments are lawful and made according to the purposes and
guidelines of the fund;
      (19)   Payments for the purchase of real estate; provided, that the
purchase and price has been duly authorized and approved by action of the
proper council, board or commission, and the purchase was executed in
compliance with I.C. 33-24, 36-1-10.5, 36-7, 36-9 or 36-10 and other relevant
laws;
      (20)   Expenditures for the following types of contributions:
         (a)   Transfers or temporary loans in consequence of cash flow needs;
         (b)   Transfers made from the corporation general fund to the unsafe
building fund;
         (c)   Transfers or contributions of department cost shares for duly
reviewed, paid expenses incurred and posted to the following internal service/
agency funds: (1) gasoline (payment) fund, (2) insurance (payment) fund and the
(3) payroll fund;
         Provided, in all cases, that the transfer has been duly authorized and
approved by action of the proper council, board or commission;
      (21)   Payments made for the purchase of road salt, or other supplies,
where a vendor requires payment to be remitted at time of delivery, provided
the proper department head determines such payment to be in the interest of
public safety;
      (22)   Payments made in consequence of or associated with a fund
development project or a promotional program related to economic development or
redevelopment, provided the project or program has been properly approved by
the appropriate board or commission;
      (23)   Payments made to employees’ health savings accounts by the
municipality as employer:
      (24)   Payments as may be identified in other sections of the code;
      (25)   Charges or fees for services provided by an authorized public
depository employed by the municipality;
      (26)   Registration fees for conferences, workshops or training conducted
by associations organized to support municipal government or entities engaged
in training or providing workshops relevant to public administration generally
or particularly in the functional areas of the local government;
      (27)   Authorized or approved releases of retainage from the capital
projects retainage agency fund;
      (28)   Payments that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (29)   Payments made for electronic and online payment processing
services in support of utility, parks and recreation and other public services
of the municipality.
   (B)   Voucher required. Each payment of expenses outlined in division (A) of
this section must be supported by a fully itemized accounts payable voucher.
   (C)   Other boards and commissions authorized. Unless the board having
jurisdiction over allowance of the accounts payable voucher elects otherwise,
the Clerk-Treasurer may make payments in advance of formal allowance by the
board having jurisdiction, for those expenses outlined in division (A) of this
section, subject to the terms of this code.
   (D)   Timely review. The City Council as the city’s legislative body or the
board having jurisdiction over allowance of the accounts payable voucher shall
review and allow the payment at the body’s or board’s next regular or special
meeting following the preapproved payment of the expense.
   (E)   Payments for any of the expenses described in this chapter may be made
by electronic fund transfer, wire or automated clearing house, pursuant to
Chapter 3.25 HMC, provided this is authorized by the fiscal officer.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 3-26-2020)
§ 33.02 DISASTER RECOVERY PLAN.
   (A)   Computer files back-up. To ensure business operations are not
interrupted in the event of a disaster, two back-ups of computer files shall be
made each day. One back-up shall be taken off-site. This copy shall be rotated
with the previous day’s work. The software consulting firm for the city shall
be contacted if problems occur.
(2003 Code, § 2.48.010)
   (B)   Storage of other records off-site. A tape back-up of all software
shall be stored off-site, along with a limited amount of all checks, receipts,
and any other pertinent forms. A copy of this plan and telephone numbers shall
also be stored off-site.
(2003 Code, § 2.48.020)
(Ord. passed 11-9-1998)
§ 33.03 SUPPLY REQUEST POLICY.
   (A)   Policy established. All requests for supplies, equipment, fuel, and
labor for the city will be placed with the Clerk-Treasurer at the utility
office, who, after the requests have been approved by the Common Council, will
make a requisition for such supplies and materials as are needed.
(2003 Code, § 3.36.010)
   (B)   Provisions. The following provisions shall be followed:
      (1)   All supplies required for all the departments will be ordered in
the name of, and billed to, the city for proper allocation;
      (2)   All defective materials, tools, and other equipment must be turned
in to the Works Manager before replacement will be made; and
      (3)   No bills will be paid until they have been approved by the Common
Council.
(2003 Code, § 3.36.020)
(Res. passed - -)
§ 33.04 CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to obtain three credit cards in the
name of the city from no more than three credit card companies and the Clerk-
Treasurer shall administer the use of these cards.
   (B)   The credit cards issued on behalf of the city shall have a maximum
credit line of not more than $1,000.
   (C)   The use of the credit card(s) will not change, replace, or bypass the
city’s accounting system. Purchase orders shall be required so that funds may
be encumbered and appropriations tracked in order to provide the Common Council
with accurate accounting information as needed.
   (D)   In all instances, an employee or official shall confirm with the
Clerk-Treasurer prior to making any purchase to assure the availability of the
funds.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer will maintain a log of the names of persons given
credit cards, their positions, estimated amounts to be charged, funds, and
account numbers to be charged, dates the cards are issued, and dates the cards
are returned. A copy of this credit card policy and a credit card holder
agreement will be issued and a signed copy returned prior to issuance of the
card.
   (F)   The employee or official that is issued the credit card is responsible
for its protection and custody and immediately shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer
if the card is lost or stolen. An official or employee shall be responsible
personally for any funds paid by the city resulting from the negligent care or
custody of the credit card.
   (G)   The credit card shall be limited to the purchase of goods and services
for only official business that has been authorized in the budget of the city.
The credit card may not be used for cash advances, personal use, or for any
other non-authorized purchase. (Electronic confirmation shall be considered a
written confirmation.)
   (H)   Payment for the credit card charges will not be made on the bases of a
credit card statement or slip only. The procedures for payment will be the same
as all other business transactions with a purchase order, documentation (which
should include an itemized receipt), and signed claim. The official or
employee, personally, shall be responsible for the payment of any improper
itemized or documented items, late receipts, absence of a purchase order or
signed claim as well as any interest, penalty, carrying charges, or sales tax
(for which the city is exempt) on the credit card bill.
   (I)   Unless disputed, the credit card charges will be paid promptly in full
every billing cycle so that no improper charges, interest, carrying charges, or
penalties will be incurred.
   (J)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to pay a reasonable nominal annual
fee for each credit card.
   (K)   Appropriate discipline shall be taken against any official or employee
who improperly uses a city credit card.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 33.05 COUNTY MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the county’s Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan as an
official plan; and
   (B)   The county’s Emergency Management Agency will submit on behalf of the
participating municipalities the adopted Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan to the
state’s Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management
Agency for final review and approval.
(Res. 2008-10, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 33.06 INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM.
   (A)   The ICS is a management system designed to enable effective and
efficient domestic incident management by integrating a combination of
facilities, equipment, personnel, procedures, and communications operating
within a common organizational structure.
   (B)   By this section, the city is institutionalizing the ICS and hereby
adopts the Incident Command System for its community. Incident managers and
response organizations in the city are also hereby directed to train, exercise,
and use the ICS in their response operations.
(Res. 2006-2, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 33.07 REPORTING THEFT TO THE STATE.
   (A)   The threshold for material losses, shortages, or theft for the city
which must be reported to the state’s Board of Accounts by the Clerk-Treasurer
or the Clerk-Treasurer’s designee, is as follows:
      (1)   Cash losses, shortage, or theft. A loss, shortage, or theft of cash
from any city fund is an amount over $500; and
      (2)   Other assets loss, shortage, or theft. A loss, shortage, or theft
of a city asset other than cash exceeding a value of $1,000.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above thresholds, any public officer or official
who has actual knowledge of or reasonable cause to believe that there has been
a misappropriation of public funds or assets of the public office, regardless
of the amount of such misappropriation, including:
      (1)   Information obtained as a result of a police report;
      (2)   An internal audit finding; or
      (3)   Another source indicating that a misappropriation has occurred;
shall immediately send written notice of the misappropriation to the State
Board of Accounts and to the prosecuting attorney serving in the area governed
by the political subdivision.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 2-8-2016; Ord. passed 6-13-2016)
§ 33.08 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The city adopts as policy the Internal Control Standards as set forth by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly written and published by the Indiana
State Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from time to time.
In order to implement these standards, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify in
writing that personnel as defined in statute have received the required
training. All officers, elected officials and employees are required to comply
with the policy. Employees who fail to comply with this policy are subject to
discipline, including but not limited to termination of their employment.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 33.09 AUTOMATED CLEARING HOUSE PAYMENTS; ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Automated clearing house and electronic funds transfers.
      (1)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. Automated clearing
house (ACH) transactions are hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make
payment of claims as authorized by I.C. 36-1-8-11.5.
      (2)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT). Electronic funds transfers (EFT),
including online banking transfers, are hereby authorized for the Clerk-
Treasurer for transfers authorized pursuant to I.C. 5-13-5-5 and 36-1-8-11.5,
including but not limited to transfers between city accounts and funds,
payroll, payroll taxes and fees, and loan payments; and
   (B)   Effective retroactively. This section shall be in full force
retroactively from January 1, 2020 (the “effective date”).
(Ord. 2020-16A, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 33.10 DISCLOSURE OF PUBLIC RECORDS; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The disclosure of public records by the city is governed by the APRA
(Indiana Access to Public Records Act) and, accordingly, the city hereby
incorporates the relevant provisions of the APRA into this municipal code.
      (1)   Public records requests must be submitted in writing to the city in
person, by email or by fax and must set forth the following information:
         (a)   Name of requesting party;
         (b)   Company represented by the requesting party, if applicable;
         (c)   Address of the requesting party (street, city, state, ZIP);
         (d)   Phone number of the requesting party;
         (e)   Email address of the requesting party;
         (f)   The date upon or by which the requesting party wishes to inspect
public records;
         (g)   The time (if requesting in person inspection) at which the
requesting party wishes to inspect public records; and
         (h)   Description of the records requested (must describe with
reasonable particularity).
      (2)   Public records requests may be made in person at 204 West Main
Street, Jasonville, Indiana 47438, by facsimile (fax) to 812-665-4233, or by
email to Jasonviile@joink.com.
      (3)   The city shall acknowledge receipt of public records requests
within seven days of receipt and shall thereafter produce such documents or
information within a reasonable time. If the city denies a request for records
or information, it shall provide the state or federal law allowing it to deny
the record. If the city redacts certain information from a record, if shall
provide the state or federal law allowing it to redact such information.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-8, the following fee
schedule is hereby established for copies of public records made by the city
and each of its departments and agencies:
         (a)   For standard-sized black and white photocopies, the fee shall be
$0.10 for each page copied; and
         (b)   For standard-sized color photocopies, the fee shall be $0.25 for
each page copied; and
         (c)   For copies produced in any format other than standard-sized
photocopies, including but not limited to over-sized paper, computer tapes,
disks, CD’s, or microfilm, the fee shall be equal to the direct cost of
supplying the information in that form, or the standard cost for selling the
same information to the public in the form of a publication if the city,
county, department or agency has published the information and made the
publication available for sale.
      (2)   This fee schedule shall apply except in instances in which another
fee is specified by statute or ordered by a court.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 8-1-2021)
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
§ 33.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In compliance with 40 C.F.R. Pts. 5 and 7, the city hereby establishes
a grievance procedure (the “grievance procedure”) to ensure prompt and fair
resolution of complaints alleging violations of Title VI, § 601 of the 1964
Civil Rights Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 2000d.
   (B)   The grievance procedure is intended to address allegations of
discrimination on the basis of:
      (1)   Race;
      (2)   Color;
      (3)   National origin;
      (4)   Religion;
      (5)   Disability;
      (6)   Income;
      (7)   Age; or
      (8)   Gender.
   (C)   The grievance procedure provides a process for filing a timely
complaint to the proper authority and describes the process that will be used
to investigate and resolve the complaint.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 33.21 FILING A COMPLAINT.
   (A)   A person (or the authorized representative of said person) who
believes that he or she or a class of persons has been discriminated against
may file a complaint with the city. The complaint should:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Be filed within 60 days of an alleged violation (except as
indicated otherwise in the following divisions);
      (3)   Described with specificity the action(s) by the city that allegedly
result in discrimination in violation of 40 C.F.R. Pts. 5 and/or 7;
      (4)   Describe with specificity the discrimination that allegedly has
occurred or will occur as a result of such action(s); and
      (5)   Identify the party or parties impacted or potentially impacted by
the alleged discrimination.
   (B)   The city may request additional information or clarification from the
complainant, if such information is needed to meet the complaint requirements
set forth above. The city may waive requirement in division (A)(2) above in its
discretion, in order to address allegations of potential discrimination caused
by pending actions at the earliest appropriate and feasible juncture; or, for
good cause, to address complaints filed more than 60 days after an alleged
violation.
   (C)   All written complaints should be addressed to the following address:
         The City of Jasonville, Indiana
         Clerk-Treasurer/Non-Discrimination Coordinator
         304 West Main Street
         Jasonville, Indiana 47438
   (D)   Within ten days of receiving a written complaint, the city will
provide the complainant with written notice of receipt. At this time, the city
may request any additional information needed to meet the complaint
requirements set forth above. Within ten days of receiving any additional
information, the city will provide the complainant with written notice that the
complaint is complete.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 33.22 INVESTIGATION OF THE COMPLAINT.
   (A)   The city, based on the information set forth in the complaint and
other information available to the city, shall determine if the city has
jurisdiction to pursue the matter and whether the complaint has sufficient
merit to warrant an investigation.
   (B)   A complaint shall be regarded as meriting investigation unless:
      (1)   The complaint clearly appears on its face to be frivolous or
trivial;
      (2)   Within the time allotted for making the determination of
jurisdiction and investigative merit, the city voluntarily concedes
noncompliance and agrees to take appropriate remedial action or reaches an
information resolution/agreement with the complainant;
      (3)   Within the time allotted for making the determination of
jurisdiction and investigative merit, the complainant withdraws the complaint;
or
      (4)   The complaint is not filed timely and there exists no good cause
for waiving the timing requirement set forth in §
33.21.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 33.23 DISPOSITION OF COMPLAINTS.
   Within 120 days of providing notice to complainant of the receipt of a
complete complaint, the city shall respond in writing to the complainant with
its proposed resolution or remedial action to address or remedy the alleged
discrimination.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 2-8-2016)
ANTI-NEPOTISM POLICY
§ 33.35 PURPOSE.
   The city finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the city and in
contracting with the city in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws, effective
July 1, 2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
(Res. 2012-6, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 33.36 ESTABLISHED.
   The city’s Nepotism Policy is hereby established, effective immediately, by
adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and including
all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to
time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In addition, a
copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2 (Nepotism) in effect on July 1, 2012, is attached to
Res. 2012-6.
(Res. 2012-6, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 33.37 ADOPTING STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy is hereby
established, effective immediately, by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition, a copy of the I.C. 36-1-21 (Contracting with
a Unit by a Relative) in effect on July 1, 2012, is attached to Res. 2012-6.
   (B)   The city finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed are necessary.
(Res. 2012-6, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 33.38 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   Department supervisors and the city’s various boards and other units
established by statute or ordinance of the Common Council may submit separate
policies to the Common Council for approval and establishment for those
departments, boards, or other units; provided, that each such policy must
comply with the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-
1-21.
(Res. 2012-6, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 33.39 MAJORITY OF LEGISLATIVE BODY REQUIRED TO ACT.
   (A)   The city further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body, and therefore, without such authority by the majority, he or she
will not be in the direct line of supervision. (See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-
5-2-9.4)
   (B)   The city finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the city cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement, or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority, by the
majority the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
(Res. 2012-6, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 33.40 APPLICATION.
   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the city are hereby
directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies created by
this subchapter and demonstrating compliance with these same policies, and to
submit applicable certifications and acknowledgments substantially identical to
the certifications and acknowledgments that appear in Exhibits C through F,
attached to Res. 2012-6, and incorporated herein as the same may be updated or
revised from time to time as legislative or circumstantial changes may require
to comply with the policies established herein.
(Res. 2012-6, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 33.41 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the Nepotism Policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance, and with mandated certifications of the
Nepotism Policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (B)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the Contracting with a Unit by a Relative
Policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance, and with mandated certifications of the Contracting with a Unit by
a Relative Policy, may be subject to action allowed by law.
(Res. 2012-6, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 33.42 STATE PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   The provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 are incorporated herein
and two copies of each of them, as supplemented or amended, will be filed in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection as maybe required by
I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Res. 2012-6, passed 8-13-2012)
DRUG FREE WORKPLACE
§ 33.55 OVERVIEW.
   Whereas, the City of Jasonville, Indiana (the "city") makes a commitment to
provide a safe working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment and
operating practices comply with health and safety standards, and to maintain
public confidence in the city and its employees. Because the City of Jasonville
values each employee, the city offers employees assistance in dealing with
alcohol and drug abuse problems.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 33.56 POLICY.
   (A)   Whereas, the City of Jasonville requires all employees to report for
work in a condition that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and
efficient manner. Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence
of alcohol or with prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job
performance.
   (B)   Violations of any provision of this subchapter will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
   (C)   This subchapter and related procedures may be modified by the city at
any time in order to comply with any applicable Federal state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the city.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 33.57 PROHIBITED DRUGS.
   (A)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act 21 U.S.C. 8120
and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. 1308.11-1308.15) and
prescription controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for a specific treatment process for the employee. Abuse
of prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this subchapter.
   (B)   The subchapter prohibits the illegal use, sale transfer, distribution,
possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other controlled
substances while on the job or on city premises (including vehicles used for
city business). These include but are not limited to marijuana, cocaine, crack,
PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and barbiturates. Any illegal
substances found on such premises will be turned over to the state police and
may lead to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 33.58 ALCOHOL.
   (A)   The use of alcohol on the job or on. City premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off city premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for city business is
strictly prohibited.
   (B)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic beverage
containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on city premises,
unless their possession is part of an authorized official event. Possession of
such containers in vehicles used for city business is never authorized.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 33.59 REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Employees must as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this subchapter and report any conviction to the city under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off city premises when conducting city
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the city within five business
days after the conviction. The city will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer with ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source (these requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988).
   (B)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal activity may be
considered in violation of this subchapter. In determining whether disciplinary
action will be imposed for this activity, the city will consider the
circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse effect
the employee's actions may have on its customers, other employees, the public,
or the city's reputation and image.
   (C)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be directed
to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 33.60 EMPLOYEE REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual's responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by the alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the city will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
   (B)   Employees with a personal, alcohol, or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approval rehabilitation program
upon referral from the employee and family assistance program, before work
performance becomes affected.
   (C)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this subchapter or any other city policies or job requirements.
   (D)   An employee identified through a city investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
   (E)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the course
of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 33.61 TESTING.
   (A)   The City of Jasonville, Indiana will continue to require that all law
enforcement personnel, fire department personnel, utility department personnel,
street department personnel, and any other employees who may operate vehicles
or machinery in the course of their official duties, or may carry a firearm or
taser in the course of their official duties, submit to random alcohol and/or
drug screens, consistent with existing city policy.
   (B)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for ALL city employees in the
following circumstances:
      (1)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior is
reasonably indicative of substance abuse.
      (2)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol rehabilitation
program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the city.
      (3)   When required by law.
   (C)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/or
job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse the supervisor (with
the concurrence of the next level of supervisor) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
city. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
   (D)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the city. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding re-application opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-2017)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment of Bureau
   
34.02   Schedule of code provisions adopted by reference
   
34.03   Failure to satisfy civil penalty or appear before Clerk; report;
prosecution
   
34.04   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
   
34.05   Court costs fees; admitted ordinance violations
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF BUREAU.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 33-36-2, the city hereby establishes the
city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau. The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby appointed as
the Violations Clerk to be administrator of the Bureau. The Violations Clerk
may accept written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations, and
payment of civil penalties of not more than $100 in ordinance violations cases,
subject to the schedule prescribed by the Common Council.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted, and accounted for by the
Violations Clerk under procedures provided for by the state’s Board of
Accounts. Payment of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person,
by mail, or to an agent or agencies designated by the legislative body.
   (C)   A person charged with an ordinance or code violation under this
chapter is entitled to a trial before a court as provided by law, unless the
person waives the right to trial and enters an admission of the violation with
the Violations Clerk. Upon such an admission, the Clerk shall assess and
receive from the violator the amount prescribed by the schedule of civil
penalties established under §
34.02.
   (D)   If a person charged with a violation under this chapter wants to
exercise the right to trial, the person shall appear before the Violations
Clerk and deny the violation or enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(2003 Code, § 2.44.010)
§ 34.02 SCHEDULE OF CODE PROVISIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The schedule of ordinance and code provisions, two copies of which is on
file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, is adopted and incorporated as part
of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(2003 Code, § 2.44.020)
§ 34.03 FAILURE TO SATISFY CIVIL PENALTY OR APPEAR BEFORE CLERK; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   If a person denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter or
fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk after having
entered an admission of the violation, or fails to deny or admit the violation
under this chapter, then the Clerk shall report this fact to the official
having the responsibility to prosecute the ordinance violation cases for the
city and court proceedings against the person shall then be initiated for the
alleged ordinance violation.
(2003 Code, § 2.44.030)
§ 34.04 DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   All sums collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance
violations shall be accounted and paid to the city as provided by law.
(2003 Code, § 2.44.040)
§ 34.05 COURT COSTS FEES; ADMITTED ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute a
judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-36-3 (Court Fees), and an ordinance
violation costs fee may not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-36-3-
6 (Collection of Court Cost Fees). In addition, an ordinance violation
processed under this chapter may not be considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-
36-2-3 (Fees collected by Clerk of Circuit Court; City, or Town Share) when
determining the percentage of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain
courts.
(2003 Code, § 2.44.050) (Ord. 1998-13, passed 10-19-1998)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.001   Social Security
   
35.002   Unclaimed water and gas deposits
   
35.003   Funds for fire hydrant purchase
   
35.004   Police Department service fees
   
35.005   Emergency service cost reimbursement
Funds
   
35.020   Capital Improvement Fund
   
35.021   Cumulative Building and Equipment Fund
   
35.022   Building, Remodeling, Firefighting, and Police Radio Equipment Fund
   
35.023   Firearms Training Fund
   
35.024   Policeman’s Pension Fund
   
35.025   Accident Report Fund
   
35.026   Federal Revenue Sharing Trust Fund
   
35.027   Service Charge Non-sufficient Funds (SCNSF) Fund
   
35.028   Sidewalk and Curb Replacement Fund
   
35.029   Abandoned Vehicle Fund
   
35.030   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
35.031   Rainy Day Fund
   
35.032   Other funds and accounts re-established; use
   
35.033   Public Safety Tax Fund
   
35.034   Promotional Fund
   
35.035   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Grant Fund
Warrants
   
35.045   Issuance of warrant
   
35.046   Approval of order for issuance
   
35.047   Audit and investigation of claims
   
35.048   Approval of claim
   
35.049   Prerequisites for approval of claim
   
35.050   Standing authorization
Fixed Asset Capitalization Policy
   
35.065   Purpose of policy and classification of assets
   
35.066   Capitalization thresholds
   
35.067   Historical cost of estimated historical costs
   
35.068   Record maintenance
   
35.069   Property control
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.001 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   Social Security coverage is elected for all positions except:
   (A)   All services of an emergency nature;
   (B)   Part-time positions;
   (C)   Positions, the compensation for which is on a fee basis; and
   (D)   Elected legislative officials.
(2003 Code, § 3.32.010)
§ 35.002 UNCLAIMED WATER AND GAS DEPOSITS.
   Unclaimed water and gas customer deposits shall be transferred to the water
and gas general funds.
(2003 Code, § 3.40.020) (Res. 1996-2, passed 6-10-1996)
§ 35.003 FUNDS FOR FIRE HYDRANT PURCHASE.
   Funds previously used for the purchase or rental of fire hydrants installed
before August 14, 1989, shall be placed in the General Fund to be used for any
need designated.
(2003 Code, § 3.56.010) (Ord. 1989-10, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 35.004 POLICE DEPARTMENT SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   Authority. Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(h), 9-26-2-3, 10-13-3-30, and 10-
13-3-31, the Common Council may establish and collect fees for providing
vehicle checks, providing accident reports, theft reports, and criminal history
reports.
   (B)   Service fees. The fees listed below are established and must be paid
to the city’s Police Department at the time a requested report is provided:
      (1)   Vehicle identification number check: $5;
      (2)   Incident and case reports: $5; and
      (3)   Criminal history checks: $5.
   (C)   Account established; use. The Clerk-Treasurer shall receipt the fees
to a separate fund in the ledger of receipts and disbursements entitled
Accident Report Account and deposit the receipts in the General Fund.
Expenditures shall be authorized by the Chief of Police, limited to the
approved uses provided in the law, and paid without appropriation on the basis
of a claim filed, allowed, and paid in the regular legal manner.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 35.005 EMERGENCY SERVICE COST REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the city’s Emergency Service
Cost Reimbursement section.
   (B)   Authority, findings, and purpose.
      (1)   Authority. Under the state code, the Board of Public Works and
Safety has the authority to make rules and regulations for the government of
public safety and/or fire companies located within the city.
      (2)   Findings. It is recognized that the duties of Fire Companies
require specialized fire, safety, emergency, rescue, environmental, and
hazardous material tools, equipment, materials, supplies, and specialized
training in order to provide for the safety of the public served. Such
required, as well as the response to emergency situations involving, and/or
caused by, non-resident individuals, places a tremendous financial burden on
said Fire Companies. While taxes, if applicable, may provide the Fire Companies
sufficient financial assistance to exist, in an effort to avoid ever-increasing
tax burdens of the residents of the city, it is found that the alternative
source of funding, emergency service cost reimbursement (i.e., response
billing) should be authorized.
      (3)   Purpose. To grant any Fire Company operating in the city limits
(hereinafter “Fire Departments”) the authority to seek reimbursement for the
reasonable cost of responding to such incidents, as well as the reasonable
costs to recoup such costs.
   (C)   Recovery of costs.
      (1)   (a)   Fire Departments are authorized to recover the reasonable
costs of the use of emergency fire and/or rescue (including, but not limited
to, vehicle accidents) personnel hours, tools, equipment, materials, and
vehicles; hazardous material and/or environmental response personnel hours,
tools, equipment, materials, and vehicles; and reasonable interest on any
amount due from the date of the response forward. Additionally, Fire
Departments are authorized to collect a reasonable flat-rate fee for any false
alarm responses or fire drill responses for which the Fire Department did not
receive at least 48 hours prior notice.
         (b)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as limiting any
amounts Fire Departments are authorized to collect under any applicable state
statute or law.
      (2)   The reasonable costs authorized to be billed for under this section
may be recovered directly by the Fire Department or through a third party
billing service as an authorized agent for the collection of such costs.
      (3)   The reimbursement rates for the aforementioned costs shall be set
by the billing entity.
      (4)   If a third party billing service is utilized, said third party
billing service shall be authorized to charge a service charge in addition to
the costs it is recovering for the Fire Department. Said service charge will be
set by the third party billing service.
      (5)   All funds recovered under this section, and due to the Fire
Department, shall be remitted directly to the city by either the responsible
parry or, if a third party billing service is utilized, by said third party
billing service. All funds recovered under this section shall be exclusively
used for the support of the Fire Department.
      (6)   The Fire Department or third party billing service shall only have
the authority to recover the costs authorized under this section from the
applicable insurance company/carrier of the party responsible for the costs
authorized to be billed for under this section. In the event that collection
costs and/or attorney’s fees are incurred by the Fire Department or third party
billing service as a result of the efforts required to obtained full
reimbursement for the costs billed for under this section, said collection
costs and/or attorney’s fees may be recovered by the Fire Department or third
party billing service from the applicable insurance company/carrier of the
party responsible for the costs authorized to be billed for under this section.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-10-2008)
FUNDS
§ 35.020 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Fund established; use.
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-17, a fund known as the
Capital Improvement Fund is established which shall be used to construct,
repair, or improve streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, and sewers.
      (2)   Other uses of the Fund shall be to:
         (a)   Design, develop, purchase, lease, upgrade, maintain, or repair
computer equipment, software, networks, and access systems;
         (b)   Pay for the services of computer maintenance employees;
         (c)   Conduct in-service technology training; and
         (d)   Undertake internet application development.
(2003 Code, § 3.04.010)
   (B)   Sources. The Fund shall consist of the following: the cigarette taxes
allotted to the city by reason of subsection C(1)(C) of §§ 27C and 27D of the
Indiana Cigarette Tax Law, being Chapter 222 of the Acts of 1947, as amended,
shall be deposited in the Fund. Said Fund shall be a cumulative fund and all of
the monies deposited into said Fund shall be appropriated and used solely for
capital improvements as hereinafter defined and none of such monies shall
revert to the General Fund or be used for any purposes other than capital
improvements.
(2003 Code, § 3.04.020)
   (C)   Tax levy designated. To provide for the Capital Improvement Fund, the
Common Council shall levy an annual tax on all taxable property within the city
upon approval of the tax by the state’s Board of Tax Commissioners.
(2003 Code, § 3.04.030)
   (D)   Limitation on Fund.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the aggregate
sum that may be appropriated and levied, under this chapter, including
emergency appropriations as authorized by I.C. 36-9-17-5(b), may not exceed the
equivalent of $0.50 on each $100 net taxable valuation of property in the city.
      (2)   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS means the construction or improvement of any
property owned by the city including, but not limited to, streets,
thoroughfares, and sewers and the retirement of general obligation bonds of the
city issued, and the proceeds used for the purpose of constructing capital
improvements. CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT shall not include salaries of any public
officials or employees except those which are directly chargeable to a capital
improvement.
(2003 Code, § 3.04.040)
   (E)   Disbursements. Disbursements may be made from the Capital Improvement
Fund for any purpose only if benefits are to be:
      (1)   Assessed against the properties benefitted in the manner provided
by the street and sewer improvement statutes of the state code; and
      (2)   Collected in the manner provided by law for the collection of
Barrett Law assessments under I.C. 36-9-36 and 36-9-37, with all interest and
penalties paid into the General Fund.
(2003 Code, § 3.04.050)
   (F)   Letting of contracts; assessments.
      (1)   Contracts for public improvements authorized by this chapter shall
be let according to the state code provisions authorizing the city to make and
finance public improvements.
      (2)   As soon as any contract for the construction of a public
improvement under this chapter has been let, the city shall:
         (a)   Carefully compute the entire cost of the project, including
payments made and to be made to the contractor, and all incidental costs,
expenses, and damages paid and incurred according to law; and
         (b)   Prepare an assessment roll listing the assessments against the
properties benefitted.
      (3)   In determining and fixing the amount of assessments the giving of
notice of assessments, the holding of public hearings, and the making of final
determinations, subject to the right of appeal from those determinations, the
city is governed by the street improvement statutes of the state code.
(2003 Code, § 3.04.060)
   (G)   Payments.
      (1)   Assessments made under this chapter are liens on the properties
benefitted from the time of the letting of the contract and shall be collected
in the manner provided by law for the collection of Barrett Law assessments.
However, the Common Council shall fix a period of not more than five years
within which the assessments shall be paid. Any property owner liable for an
assessment may elect to pay it in annual installments over the period of time
fixed by the Council by executing a waiver in the manner provided by I.C. 36-9-
37-8.5.
      (2)   All payments of the assessments and all payments made by the city
for public improvements under this chapter shall be made into the General
Improvement Fund.
(2003 Code, § 3.04.070)
(Ord. 186, passed 7-6-1965; Ord. 2002-1, passed 5-13-2002)
§ 35.021 CUMULATIVE BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby established a Cumulative Building
and Equipment Fund under I.C. 36-8-14.
(2003 Code, § 3.06.010)
   (B)   Tax levy. An ad valorem property tax levy shall be imposed on all
taxable property within the city and the revenues from such levy shall be
retained in the Cumulative Building and Equipment Fund.
(2003 Code, § 3.06.020)
   (C)   Maximum rate. The maximum rate of levy under division (B) above shall
not exceed $0.0333 per $100 of assessed valuation of property in the city.
(2003 Code, § 3.06.030)
   (D)   Use. The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Building and Equipment
Fund shall be used for the purchase, construction, renovation, or addition to
buildings used by the city’s Volunteer Fire Department and for the purchase of
firefighting equipment including, but not limited to, making the required
payments under a lease rental with option to purchase agreement made to acquire
such equipment, if an such agreement there be, and to purchase police radio
equipment, all as described in I.C. 36-8-14-2.
(2003 Code, § 3.06.040)
   (E)   Additional use. Notwithstanding division (D) above, funds accumulated
in the Cumulative Building and Equipment Fund may be spent for purposes other
than the purposes stated in division (D) above, if the purpose is to protect
the public health, welfare, or safety in an emergency situation which demands
immediate action. Money may be spent under the authority of this section only
after the Mayor issues a declaration that the public health, welfare, or safety
is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in such Fund.
(2003 Code, § 3.06.050)
   (F)   Approval by State Board. A public hearing on the proposal of the
establishment of the Cumulative Building and Equipment Fund shall be held.
Notice thereof shall be given to the taxpayers of the city in accordance with
I.C. 5-3-1 and the hearing held prior to presentation of this section to the
state’s Board of Tax Commissioners. Upon approval by the state’s Board of Tax
Commissioners, this Fund shall become effective immediately.
(2003 Code, § 3.06.060)
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 3-9-1987)
§ 35.022 BUILDING, REMODELING, FIREFIGHTING, AND POLICE RADIO EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Fund established; use. Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-14, a
fund known as the Building, Remodeling, Firefighting, and Police Radio
Equipment Fund is established. The Fund shall be used only for the purchase,
construction, renovation, or addition to buildings used by the Fire Department,
and for purchase of firefighting equipment and police radio equipment.
(2003 Code, § 3.08.010)
   (B)   Tax levy designated.
      (1)   To provide for said Fund, the Common Council shall levy an annual
tax on all taxable property within the city upon approval of the tax by the
state’s Board of Tax Commissioners.
      (2)   The tax rate may not exceed $0.10 on each one $100 of assessed
valuation of property in the city.
(2003 Code, § 3.08.020)
§ 35.023 FIREARMS TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   Fund established; application; license. The city, pursuant to I.C. 35-
47-2-3, does hereby establish an application fee of $10, as per statute, which
fee shall be collected from every applicant filing an application with the
Chief of Police for a handgun license. Five dollars of said fee shall be
refunded if the license is not issued.
(2003 Code, § 3.16.010)
   (B)   Fees designated. The fee as collected under this section shall be
deposited into the law enforcement agency’s Firearms Training Fund or other
appropriate fund for training activities.
(2003 Code, § 3.16.020)
   (C)   Use of funds collected. Such application fee, as collected and
deposited to the funds as above designated, shall be used by the city’s Police
Department exclusively for the purpose of training law enforcement officers in
the proper use of firearms or other law enforcement duties.
(2003 Code, § 3.16.030)
   (D)   Compliance rules and regulations. Account or accounts as established
shall comply with any rules and regulations for proper accounting and
expenditure of funds as propagated by the state’s Board of Accounts.
(2003 Code, § 3.16.040)
§ 35.024 POLICEMAN’S PENSION FUND.
   The city does hereby elect to establish and create a Policeman’s Pension
Fund to be administered by a Board of Trustees of the Policeman’s Pension Fund
in accordance with the statutes in such cases made and provided.
(2003 Code, § 3.20.010) (Ord. 149, passed 4-6-1959)
§ 35.025 ACCIDENT REPORT FUND.
   (A)   Accident report charges. The Police Department shall, pursuant to I.C.
9-26-2-3, supply information concerning accident investigation and reports to
persons entitled thereto and shall furnish a copy of the accident reports. The
charge for providing a copy made by means of a duplicating machine shall be $10
for each such report so furnished and shall be payable at the time the report
is furnished.
   (B)   Account established; use.
      (1)   Fees collected under provisions of this section shall be deposited
in a separate account to be known as Accident Report Account and shall be
expended at the discretion of the Chief Administrative Officer of the Police
Department for any Department purpose reasonably related to the keeping of
accident reports and records or the prevention of highway and street accidents.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall receipt the fees to a separate fund in
the ledger of receipts and disbursements entitled Accident Report Account and
deposit the receipts in the city’s Police Continuing Education Fund.
Expenditures shall be authorized by the Chief of Police, limited to the
approved uses provided in the law, and paid without appropriation on the basis
of a claim filed, allowed, and paid in the regular legal manner.
(2003 Code, § 3.24.020) (Ord. 1987-10, passed 9-14-1987; Ord. 2009-9, passed 9-
14-2009)
§ 35.026 FEDERAL REVENUE SHARING TRUST FUND.
   In accordance with Local Government Fiscal Assistance Fund, being 31 U.S.C.
§§ 6701 and 6720, there is hereby created a Federal Revenue Sharing Trust Fund,
in which on receipt all Federal Revenue Sharing Funds shall be deposited. Said
Fund shall be used in accordance with federal regulations set forth.
(2003 Code, § 3.28.010) (Ord. 251, passed 12-11-1972)
§ 35.027 SERVICE CHARGE NON-SUFFICIENT FUNDS (SCNSF) FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby created a separate fund entitled
SCNSF Fund to receive forfeiture monies.
(2003 Code, § 3.38.010)
   (B)   Nature of Fund. This Fund is a perpetual fund and is non-reverting at
the end of the year. The Fund shall be terminated by an ordinance. If there
remains a balance in the fund at the time the Fund is terminated, the balance
shall revert to the General Fund.
(2003 Code, § 3.38.020)
(Ord. 1996-1, passed 2-26-1996)
§ 35.028 SIDEWALK AND CURB REPLACEMENT FUND.
   Due to the need for curb and sidewalk improvement, the city, by this
section, establishes a special fund for such use. Payments to fund this account
shall be transferred in $500 increments when needed upon approval from the
Rainy Day Fund and/or Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund. This funding source
is retroactive to May 2, 2012.
(Ord. 1998-7, passed 10-15-2013)
§ 35.029 ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND.
   An Abandoned Vehicle Fund hereby is established for the purposes described
in Chapter 93, with the charges for the Fund specified in § 93.40.
(2003 Code, § 3.52.010) (Ord. 1999-4, passed 6-14-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 93
§ 35.030 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   A need now exists for the establishment of a Cumulative Capital
Development Fund for the following purposes: for all uses as set out in I.C.
36-9-15.5.
   (B)   This Board will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5. The
proposed Fund will not exceed $0.05 on each $100 of assessed valuation. Said
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2013 payable 2014; and
thereafter, continuing until reduced or rescinded.
   (C)   Proofs of publication of the public hearing held on the July 15, 2013,
and a certified copy of this section shall be submitted to the Department of
Local Government Finance of the state as provided by law. This Cumulative Fund
is subject to the approval of the Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 35.031 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   The Rainy Day Fund is established as of February 12, 2007.
   (B)   (1)   The Rainy Day Fund may receive transfers of unused and
unencumbered funds under I.C. 36-1-8-5 in respect to funds raised by general or
special tax levies.
      (2)   Whenever the purposes of a general or special tax levy on all
taxable property of the city have been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered
balance remains in the fund, the Common Council shall order the balance of that
fund to be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund.
      (3)   In any fiscal year, the Common Council may transfer not more than
10% of the city’s annual budget for the fiscal year, as adopted under I.C. 6-
1.1-17, to the Rainy Day Fund.
   (C)   Supplemental distributions of County Option Income Tax, pursuant to
I.C. 6-3.5-7-18.3, shall be deposited by the Clerk-Treasurer into the Rainy Day
Fund.
   (D)   The Common Council may designate such other sources as it may from
time to time determine are appropriate to be deposited or transferred to the
Rainy Day Fund.
   (E)   The purpose of the Rainy Day Fund shall be to provide such funding as
may be determined reasonable and necessary by the Common Council for the uses
and purposes for which funds from the General Fund and the County Option Income
Tax may otherwise be expended.
   (F)   The Rainy Day Fund is subject to the same appropriation process as
other funds that receive tax money. Before making an appropriation, the Common
Council shall make a finding that the proposed use of the Rainy Day Fund is
consistent with the intent of the funds as required by I.C. 36-1-8-5.1(b).
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 35.032 OTHER FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS RE-ESTABLISHED; USE.
   Pursuant to statutory provisions, all other funds and accounts that the city
may elect to use are hereby re-established. Such funds and accounts shall
include, but not be limited to, the Local Road and Street Fund, Motor Vehicle
Fund, State and Federal Loan/Grant Funds, and the like.
(2003 Code, § 3.40.010)
§ 35.033 PUBLIC SAFETY TAX FUND.
   (A)   A Public Safety Tax Fund is established.
   (B)   One hundred percent of the funds received from the County Auditor for
public safety shall be placed into the Public Safety Tax Fund and used for
“public safety” in accordance with I.C. 6-3.6-2-14 through designated
appropriations, subject, however, to the following allocation between the
Police Department and the Fire Department:
      (1)   Sixty-five percent of the funds deposited into the Fund shall be
reserved for the Police Department, which funds shall be expended at the
discretion of the Chief of Police pursuant to existing policy, except that the
Fund shall not be used for regular payroll or retirement benefits, but may be
expended for overtime compensation at the discretion of the Chief of Police;
      (2)   Thirty-five percent of the funds deposited into the Fund shall be
reserved for the Fire Department, which funds shall be expended at the
discretion of the Fire Chief pursuant to existing policy, except that the Fund
shall not be used for regular payroll or retirement benefits, but may be
expended for overtime compensation at the discretion of the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (C)   The balance of the Fund shall accrue from fiscal year to fiscal year
and shall not be rolled over into the General Fund or any other fund, except as
expressly permitted by state law and directed by proper resolution or ordinance
of the Council. The Fund shall be maintained and administered in accordance
with all relevant provisions of the state code and any other applicable laws
and regulations.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-12-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 35.034 PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   (A)   The Promotional Fund is hereby established.
   (B)   The City Council may approve expenditures from the Fund and expenses
incurred to promote the City of Jasonville, Indiana.
   (C)   Such promotional expenses may include, but are not limited to, rental
of meeting places, meals, decorations, memorabilia, commemorative objects,
awards, expenses incurred in promotion industrial, commercial, and residential
development and tourism, expenses incurred in developing relationships with
other governmental units, expenses for membership dues, assessments, conference
registrations and other assistance in local, regional, state and national
associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature which have as their
purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations, the direct
expenses of a civic or governmental nature such as a reasonable amount spent on
employee funeral flowers, an all-employee gathering, or employee retirement
gift deemed by action of the may or the City Council to be in the interest of
the city.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 3-9-2020)
§ 35.035 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY GRANT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of ARP Fund. The ARP Coronavirus Local Recovery Grant
Fund (the “ARP Fund”) is hereby established.
   (B)   Source and use of funds. The ARP Fund shall be a separate and distinct
fund from all other city funds. The sources of funding for the ARP Fund will
include funds allocated to the city from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021
(the “ARPA”) and such funds shall be used only for eligible purposes pursuant
to the ARPA.
   (C)   Additional appropriation. Funds deposited into the ARPA will require
an additional appropriation of the Council and the city’s Clerk-Treasurer will
review all requested uses of the funds in order to ensure compliance with ARPA
requirements. The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain detailed accounting records of
the ARP Fund to provide for future audits of the ARP fund.
   (D)   Non-reverting fund. Funds remaining in the ARP Fund at the end of the
calendar year shall not revert to another fund but shall remain in the ARP fund
a separate, non-reverting fund.
   (E)   Intent and amendment. This section is intended to implement the
guidance set forth in ISBOA State Directive 2021-1 and is subject to amendment
from time to time to comply with any additional directive or guidance,
statutory amendment, updated rules, or the binding order of any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 4-21-2021)
WARRANTS
§ 35.045 ISSUANCE OF WARRANT.
   (A)   Money may be paid out of the City Treasury only on warrant of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Unless provided otherwise by state law, the Clerk-Treasurer may draw a
warrant against a fund of the city only if an appropriation has been made for
that purpose, the appropriation is not exhausted, and:
      (1)   The warrant is for a salary fixed by statute or ordinance;
      (2)   The warrant is for a claim allowed under §
35.048;
      (3)   He or she is ordered to issue the warrant under §
35.046;
      (4)   The warrant is for payment of a judgment that the city must pay; or
      (5)   The warrant is for interest due on municipal bonds.
(2003 Code, § 3.12.010)
§ 35.046 APPROVAL OF ORDER FOR ISSUANCE.
   The Common Council may order the issuance of warrants for payment of money
by the city only at a meeting of the Board. A city officer who violates this
section forfeits his or her office pursuant to I.C. 36-4-8-3.
(2003 Code, § 3.12.020)
§ 35.047 AUDIT AND INVESTIGATION OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may audit a claim against the city by examining
under oath any officer, agent, or employee of the city or any other person.
When acting under this section, the Clerk-Treasurer has the same powers as the
Common Council in summoning and examining witnesses. Under I.C. 36-4-8-2, the
Clerk-Treasurer is the fiscal officer of the city and warrants are to be drawn
by the fiscal officer.
   (B)   (1)   If the Clerk-Treasurer finds that:
         (a)   The claim includes an item for which no appropriation has been
made;
         (b)   There is not a sufficient balance for payment of the claim in
the proper fund; or
         (c)   The claim should not be approved for any reason.
      (2)   He or she may not issue warrants to pay the claim and shall notify
the proper department of the reasons for his or her refusal to pay the claim.
(2003 Code, § 3.12.030)
§ 35.048 APPROVAL OF CLAIM.
   (A)   The Common Council may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Council; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A city officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office
pursuant to I.C. 36-4-8-5.
(2003 Code, § 3.12.040)
§ 35.049 PREREQUISITES FOR APPROVAL OF CLAIM.
   A warrant for payment of a claim against the city may be issued only if the
claim is:
   (A)   Itemized and certified under I.C. 5-11-10-1;
   (B)   Approved by the officer or person receiving the goods or services;
   (C)   Filed with the Clerk-Treasurer;
   (D)   Audited and approved by the Clerk-Treasurer; and
   (E)   Allowed by the Common Council having jurisdiction over allowance of
the claim.
(2003 Code, § 3.12.050)
§ 35.050 STANDING AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is given the authority to pay such claims as
payroll, taxes withheld, Social Security payments, sales taxes, gross income
tax, utility bills from non-city-owned utilities, and others which would apply
to those claims which must be paid timely to avoid late charges.
   (B)   Should there be any question on certain payments, approval may be
obtained from the City Attorney and Board members and/or Council. Members may
be polled by telephone, with their assurance of approval at the next scheduled
meeting, and payment may be made.
(2003 Code, § 3.12.060) (Res. 1985-5, passed 4-8-1985)
FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 35.065 PURPOSE OF POLICY AND CLASSIFICATION OF ASSETS.
   (A)   This capital asset policy will be retroactively effective as of
January 1, 2022 (the "effective date"). The purpose of this policy is to
facilitate the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles and in compliance with applicable laws and
regulations governing municipal finance.
   (B)   Capital assets are personal and real property used in the operations
of the city that have an expected estimated useful life beyond a single
reporting period (one year). Capital assets are to include any item that falls
into one of the following categories:
      (1)   Land;
      (2)   Buildings and building improvements;
      (3)   Machinery and equipment;
      (4)   Vehicles;
      (5)   Computer software;
      (6)   General infrastructure (roads, bridges, rights-of-ways);
      (7)   Construction in progress.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 35.066 CAPITALIZATION THRESHOLDS.
   (A)   To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting purposes, an
item must be at or above the capitalization threshold and have a unit
historical cost of $10,000 or more.
   (B)   The capitalization threshold for the following classes of assets shall
be as follows:
      (1)   Machinery, equipment and vehicles: $10,000.
      (2)   Buildings and building improvements: $100,000.
      (3)   General infrastructure improvements: $200,000.
      (4)   Computer software: $50,000.
   (C)   With regard to improvements, buildings and general infrastructure, a
capital outlay must be significant and increase capacity, increase efficiency
or extend the asset's estimated useful life beyond the original expectation.
   (D)   A change in capacity increases the level of service provided by the
asset. A change in efficiency increases the level of service without increasing
the size of the asset or the change maintains the same level of service at a
lower cost. An extended estimated useful life involved a significant
alteration, structural change, or improvement.
   (E)   All land, including rights-of-ways, is capitalized at the time of
acquisition regardless of historical costs or fair value if donated.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 35.067 HISTORICAL COST OF ESTIMATED HISTORICAL COSTS.
   (A)   Valuation. Capital assets are recorded at historical costs which
includes any ancillary charges necessary to place the asset into its intended
location and condition for use. Ancillary charges include, for example, freight
and transportation charges, site preparation costs, and professional fees.
Engineering costs (internal and external) include related preliminary project
and environmental studies, project estimating, design, planning (drawings and
specifications), construction engineering, construction management,
construction inspection and project payment. Donated capital assets are
recorded at their estimated fair market value at the time of acquisition.
   (B)   Depreciation schedule. Capital assets have estimated useful lives
extending beyond a single reporting period (one year) and are depreciated using
the straight line method with no allowance for salvage value. The estimated
useful lives for capital assets are as follows:
      (1)   Land: non-depreciable.
      (2)   Buildings: 50 years.
      (3)   Non-building improvements: 15 years.
      (4)   Machinery and equipment: five years.
      (5)   Vehicles:
         (a)   Cars: five years.
         (b)   Light trucks: eight years.
         (c)   Heavy trucks: 15 years.
      (6)   General infrastructure:
         (a)   Roads: 50 years.
         (b)   Bridges: 75 years.
         (c)   Outdoor Lighting: ten years.
      (7)   Software: five years.
   (C)   Retirements. Retirements apply to all capital assets including land,
buildings, machinery and equipment, vehicles and general infrastructure. When
an asset is disposed, scrapped, sold, subject to demolition, and the like, it
is to be removed from the property record and the appropriate reduction will be
made to historical cost, accumulated depreciation, and net book value amounts.
Retirements will reflect the actual historical cost of the asset when the
amount is ascertainable. When historical cost is not ascertainable, an
estimated historical cost will be determined by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 35.068 RECORD MAINTENANCE.
   The city's Clerk-Treasurer shall ensure that reporting for capital assets is
being exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory, both initially and
periodically in subsequent years. The Clerk-Treasurer shall further ensure that
the capital asset report will be updated annually to reflect improvements,
additions, retirements, and transfers and to reflect the new capital asset
balance for financial reporting purposes and the annual and accumulated
depreciation calculations and net book value amounts.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 35.069 PROPERTY CONTROL.
   Capital assets below the capitalization threshold of $10,000 but warranting
"control" shall be inventoried at the department level and an appointment list
shall be maintained. Items below the capitalization threshold but warranting
control may include, for example, weapons, radios, personal computers,
printers, fax machines and power tools. The Clerk-Treasurer shall determine the
appropriate means, level of detail data, and the system of inventory to be
used. The Clerk-Treasurer may request copies of the inventories from the
various departments as to periodically review the information and ensure
compliance with city policy.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 2-14-2022)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GAS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
      
53.   SANITATION UTILITY: GARBAGE
      
54.   STORM WATER PLAN
CHAPTER 50: GAS
Section
Application and Installation
   
50.01   Rules and regulations on file
   
50.02   Written application or contract required
   
50.03   Description of service to be furnished
   
50.04   Service piping
   
50.05   House piping
   
50.06   Location of company meters and appurtenances
   
50.07   Meters to be installed by company
   
50.08   Meter calculations
   
50.09   Failure of meter
   
50.10   Main extensions
   
50.11   Re-connection charge
Maintenance, Modification, and Liability
   
50.25   Access to premises
   
50.26   Continuous service
   
50.27   Release of company from liability
   
50.28   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.29   Damages
   
50.30   Notify company before increasing load
   
50.31   Resale of gas
   
50.32   Deposit
   
50.33   Company’s property and protection thereof
   
50.34   Exclusive service on installation connected
   
50.35   Modification of contract
   
50.36   Assignment
   
50.37   Delay due to strikes and the like
   
50.38   Equipment or location permit
   
50.39   Company defined
Rates and Charges
   
50.50   Rates
   
50.51   Rates and charges nondiscriminatory
   
50.52   Connection fees
   
50.53   Accounting shall be separate
   
50.54   Service availability
   
50.55   Voluntary disconnect-reconnect charges
   
50.56   Payment in lieu of taxes
   
50.57   Payment of bills; deferred payment plan
APPLICATION AND INSTALLATION
§ 50.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS ON FILE.
   A copy of all rates, rules, and regulations under which gas service will be
supplied shall be posted or on file for the public’s benefit in the office of
the company and with the Public Service Commission of the state.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.010) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.02 WRITTEN APPLICATION OR CONTRACT REQUIRED.
   A written application or contract properly executed may be required from the
customer before the company will be required to supply service; provided,
however, that the company shall have the right to reject, for any valid reason,
any application. In any case where unusual construction or equipment expense is
necessary to furnish the service, the company may require a contract for such
reasonable period of time as is specified by the company at the time of the
making of such contract.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.020) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.03 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE TO BE FURNISHED.
   The customer shall, upon request of the company, present in writing to the
company a list of the appliances which are to be attached to the company’s
meter, giving the British thermal unit (BTU) rating of each appliance and the
location of the building, and the company will then advise the form and the
character of the supply available.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.030) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.04 SERVICE PIPING.
   The company will furnish and install the service pipe from the gas main to
the meter location. Alterations and repairs of the service pipe shall only be
made by persons authorized by the company.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.040) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.05 HOUSE PIPING.
   House piping between the company’s meter and the customer’s appliances shall
be installed in accordance with the company’s Standards for Installation of Gas
Piping and Appliances in Buildings and installed by a qualified agency, as
described in the Standards for Installation of Gas Piping and Appliances in
Buildings.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.050) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.06 LOCATION OF COMPANY METERS AND APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   The customer shall provide a place immediately adjacent to an outside
wall of the premises, free of expense to the company, and satisfactory to the
company for necessary meters and appurtenances. Such meters and appurtenances
shall be furnished by the company.
   (B)   Gas shall be supplied only through meters, and the meters shall be
read monthly by the city. A separate meter shall be required for each consumer
and for each dwelling unit. Gas shall not be purchased for resale.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.060) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963; Ord. 1981-69, passed 4-
21-1981)
§ 50.07 METERS TO BE INSTALLED BY COMPANY.
   Unless otherwise specified in contract between the company and the customer,
or by tariff on file, the gas supplied shall be measured by a meter or meters
of standard manufacture, furnished and installed by the company on the premises
with standards of the Public Service Commission as may be in force and effect
from time to time, and the requirements of the company in force and effect from
time to time.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.070)
§ 50.08 METER CALCULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided in §
50.09, all charges for gas service, other than the minimum service charge,
shall be calculated upon the registration of the meter or meters installed.
   (B)   If more than one meter is installed for different classes of service,
each meter registration shall be considered by itself in calculating the amount
of charges for service. When, for the convenience of the company, more than one
meter is installed for the same class of service, the sum of the registration
shall in all cases be considered as a single registration. Meters include all
measuring instruments.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.080)
§ 50.09 FAILURE OF METER.
   Whenever it is discovered that a meter is not recording correctly,
adjustment shall be made covering such inaccuracy in accordance with such
applicable rules and standards of the Public Service Commission as may be in
force and effect from time to time.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.090)
§ 50.10 MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   Main extensions requested by property owners shall be made by the company
and at the expense of the company when the estimated four-year revenue of the
customers to be served by the extension equals or exceeds the estimated cost of
the extension plus the cost of the service pipes and meters of the customers to
be served.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.100)
§ 50.11 RE-CONNECTION CHARGE.
   If service is discontinued due to the non-payment of a bill for natural gas
service rendered, a re-connection charge of $25 will be levied for restoration
of service.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.110) (Ord. 1997-9, passed 8-25-1997)
MAINTENANCE, MODIFICATION, AND LIABILITY
§ 50.25 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The properly authorized agents of the company shall have the right to enter
upon the premises of the customer at all reasonable times for the purpose of
inspecting, repairing, or replacing the facilities of the company used in
connection with the service, and removing the same on the termination of the
contract of the discontinuance of the service.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.120)
§ 50.26 CONTINUOUS SERVICE.
   (A)   The company shall not be responsible in damages for any failure to
supply gas or for interruption if such failure or interruption is without
willful default or negligence on its part.
   (B)   The company shall maintain all distribution facilities including
mains, services, meters, and meter appurtenances. It shall be the customer’s
responsibility to maintain all house piping and appliances beyond the outlet of
the company’s meter. The company shall refer all customers to plumbers or
qualified gas service persons for installations or repairs of house piping and
appliances. Such installations and repairs shall not be at the expense of the
company, except that a gas leak reported to the company by the customer shall
be investigated and made safe by the company at the expense of the company.
   (C)   Where a gas leak is found by the company in the customer’s house
piping or appliances, the gas meter shall be removed and it shall be the
customer’s responsibility to have the leak repaired prior to the company
reconnecting the gas meter.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.130)
§ 50.27 RELEASE OF COMPANY FROM LIABILITY.
   The company shall not be liable for damages resulting to customer or to
third persons from the presence of use of gas or of the company’s facilities on
the customer’s premises, unless due to contributory negligence on the part of
the company and without any contributory negligence on the part of the customer
or such third party.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.140)
§ 50.28 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
§ 50.29 DAMAGES.
   The company shall not be liable for damages because of any interruption of
the supply of gas or for damages caused by defective piping and appliances on
the customer’s premises.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.160)
§ 50.30 NOTIFY COMPANY BEFORE INCREASING LOAD.
   The service connections, meters, and appurtenances supplied by the company
have a definite capacity and no substantial addition to the gas consuming
equipment or appliances connected thereto shall be made, except upon written
notice to and with the written consent of the company.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.170) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.31 RESALE OF GAS.
   The gas furnished under these rules is for the use of the customer on his or
her premises and he or she shall not resell any of it without written consent
of the company.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.190) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.32 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   In accordance with such applicable rules and standards of the Public
Service Commission as may be in force and effect from time to time, the company
may require from all applicants for service a cash deposit equal to the amount
payable for service for any regular billing period plus 30 days as estimated by
the company as a guarantee against the non-payment of bills for service;
provided, however, that where the customer is the owner of property or
furnishes a written guarantee from a property owner, the company may waive such
cash deposit. Such guarantee shall not make the guarantor liable in an amount
exceeding the charge for a period of 60 days or 90 days, whichever is
applicable. Such cash deposit minus any unpaid amounts for service rendered the
customer shall be returned upon the discontinuance of service.
   (B)   In all cases where the consumption in a billing period is in excess of
that covered by the deposit required, but such deposit shall not exceed an
amount for any estimated billing period plus 30 days.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.200) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.33 COMPANY’S PROPERTY AND PROTECTION THEREOF.
   All meters or other facilities and equipment furnished by, and at the
expense of, the company which may at any time be on said premises shall, unless
otherwise expressly provided herein, be and remain the property of the company,
and the customer shall protect such property from freezing and from loss or
damage, and no one who is not an agent of the company shall be permitted to
remove such property or tamper therewith.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.210) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.34 EXCLUSIVE SERVICE ON INSTALLATION CONNECTED.
   Except under a contract with the company in respect to auxiliary service, no
gas service other than that being supplied by the company shall be used.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.220) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.35 MODIFICATION OF CONTRACT.
   No promises, agreements, or representations of any agent of the company
shall be binding upon the company unless the same shall have been incorporated
in a written contract before the same is signed and approved by an agent of the
company authorized to sign such contract on behalf of the company.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.230) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.36 ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)   The benefits and obligations under any contract for the supply of gas
by the company shall begin when the company commences to supply gas service
thereunder and shall ensure to and be binding upon the successors, assigns,
survivors, executors, or administrators, as the case may be, of the original
party thereto for the full term thereof; provided, that no assignment thereof
shall be made by the customer or by any successor, assignee, survivor,
executor, or administrator, without first obtaining the company’s written
consent to any such assignment.
   (B)   Each customer must make application to the office of the company
before gas service will be established by the company. A customer moving from
premises where he or she is being supplied gas service will be held responsible
for the payment of all bills rendered for service supplied on said premises
unless and until he or she gives proper notice at the office of the company
that service is to be discontinued at such premises.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.240) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.37 DELAY DUE TO STRIKES AND THE LIKE.
   Neither the company nor the customer shall be held liable for any failure or
delay in performing any of the things undertaken by it or him or her under any
service contract in case such failure or delay is caused by strikes, acts of
God, unavoidable accidents, or other contingencies beyond its or his or her
control and in no manner due to any fault, neglect, or omission on its or his
or her part.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.250) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.38 EQUIPMENT OR LOCATION PERMIT.
   The customer shall obtain from the property owner or owners and on forms to
be supplied by the company, and deliver to the company, the necessary consent
or consents authorizing the installation and maintenance on, over, or through
all private property, of all such piping or equipment as may be necessary or
convenient for the supplying of the gas service to be furnished by the company.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.260) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
§ 50.39 COMPANY DEFINED.
   Where in this subchapter and rules and regulations the word COMPANY is used,
it shall mean the city’s municipal gas utility.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.280) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.50 RATES.
   (A)   Established. The following schedule of rates and charges, and
regulations herein pertaining thereto, are hereby established, adopted, and
approved for the city municipal natural gas utility in furnishing gas and
rendering services thereby to it respective customers, as hereinafter set out,
and based on the amount of gas supplied during each monthly billing period,
unless otherwise stated herein. This schedule is available for natural gas
service to customers of the city municipal natural gas utility.
   (B)   Character of service. Natural gas supplied under this schedule is sold
on a “firm gas” basis and shall be supplied through a single delivery point and
be separately metered. All natural gas delivered under this rate schedule is
for the exclusive use of the customer and shall not be resold.
   (C)   Measurement and billing. For measurement purposes, the volume of
natural gas delivered under this rate schedule shall be measured in 1,000 cubic
feet units. For billing purposes, the volume of natural gas billed under this
rate schedule shall be billed by the MCF (1,000 cubic feet). Bills shall be
rendered on a 28- to 32-day billing cycle.
   (D)   Billing period rate. For all natural gas delivered.
 
First 2,000 cubic feet  $6.6271
Next 4,000 cubic feet   $6.0604 per 1,000 cubic feet
Next 94,000 cubic feet  $5.8464 per 1,000 cubic feet
Over 100,000 cubic feet $5.2924 per 1,000 cubic feet
The minimum bill during any one billing period shall be $6.63
 
   (E)   (1)   Gas cost adjustment. Bills for service rendered under this
schedule are subject to adjustments for increases or decreases occasioned by
changes in the cost of purchased gas on the basis of a gas cost adjustment
tracking factor determined as follows and approved by the city’s Utility Board
from time to time. All gas billings for service rendered by the city’s
municipal gas utility are subject to adjustments occasioned solely by changes
in the cost of purchased gas, including all transportation costs and other
costs related to the purchase and delivery of gas to the city. At its
discretion, the city may revise its gas cost adjustment tracking factor on a
monthly, quarterly, or semi-annual basis. The gas cost adjustment tracking
factor may include reconciliations of prior over or under collections of gas
costs resulting from prior estimated purchased gas volumes and costs.
      (2)   The base rates and charges set forth in this subchapter are based
upon the following gas costs:
            Gas purchase volumes                     142,429 MCF
            Time purchased gas cost embedded in base rates         $3.80 MCF
                                       ____________
            Total purchased gas cost                  $541,230
            Divide by annual gas sales                     128,494.6 MCF
                                       ____________
            Base cost of gas sold                      $ 4.21 MCF
      (3)   The gas cost adjustment tracking factor shall be based upon the
incremental increases or decreases in gas costs as compared to the base cost of
gas embedded in the base rates and charges for gas service.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.290) (Ord. 1981-69, passed 4-21-1981; Ord. 1997-9, passed
8-25-1997)
§ 50.51 RATES AND CHARGES NONDISCRIMINATORY.
   No free service of the gas utility shall be furnished to any person, firm,
organization, or corporation, public or private, and all rates and charges
shall be nondiscriminatory; provided, that the Common Council reserves the
right to impose special rates and charges in cases where particular
circumstances render the regular rates inadequate or unjust. If the city should
elect to supply itself with gas for any purpose, regular rates therefor shall
be charged against the city, and payment shall be made from the General Fund to
the Gas Utility Fund.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.300) (Ord. 1981-69, passed 4-21-1981)
§ 50.52 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   A contract for service shall be made and all appropriate charges paid
in advance of making the initial test of the customer’s pipes and turning on
the gas service for the customer. No service connection will be turned on
unless the customer’s piping and appliances pass the tests and the certificate
of the installers has been properly filled out and signed. Additional tests, if
required by customers due to defective pipe or connections, may be made at any
time at $20 per test.
   (B)   There shall be a connection fee for locations upon real estate where
no previous connections have been made of $2.10 per lineal foot of three-
fourths of an inch service line required from the main, with necessary
fittings, valves, meter, and regulator. The minimum connection fee will be
$100.
   (C)   A meter deposit of $75 will be required for users being served. The
meter deposit, less the amount of any bill owning, shall be refunded to the
customer making such deposit at such time as said customer shall be
disconnected from gas service. Any requests for refunds due to mistakes in
billings or meter reading shall be made within five days of receiving the bill.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.310) (Ord. 1981-69, passed 4-21-1981; Ord. 1997-9, passed
8-25-1999)
§ 50.53 ACCOUNTING SHALL BE SEPARATE.
   All monies received as charges as services for the gas system shall be
deposited in a bank account separate and distinct from the bank accounts in
which other city funds are held. Said funds shall be administered and allocated
in strict accordance with the provisions of Ord. 171 of said city, authorizing
the issuance of $275,000 of natural gas revenue bonds of 1963.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.320) (Ord. 1981-69, passed 4-21-1981)
§ 50.54 SERVICE AVAILABILITY.
   Service shall be available to all prospective residential, commercial, and
other consumers in and near the city; provided, that service is economically
feasible. The Common Council reserves the right to determine feasibility and to
accept or reject, based on such determination, an application for service.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.330) (Ord. 1981-69, passed 4-21-1981)
§ 50.55 VOLUNTARY DISCONNECT-RECONNECT CHARGES.
   If gas is discontinued at the request of the customer and the customer
requests that gas service be resumed at the same address, there will be a $15
service charge payable prior to such resumption.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.340) (Ord. 1981-69, passed 4-21-1981)
§ 50.56 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES.
   (A)   The city’s gas utility shall pay an amount semi-annually to the city
which is sufficient to compensate the civil city for the taxes due the civil
city which would have been paid on the utility property were it privately
owned.
   (B)   Such funds paid in lieu of taxes shall be transferred to the General
Fund of the city.
(2003 Code, § 13.04.350) (Ord. 1981-10, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 50.57 PAYMENT OF BILLS; DEFERRED PAYMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Each bill for natural gas service is due and payable upon the date it
is rendered. Bills not paid for a period of more than 14 days following the
date the bill is rendered shall be a delinquent bill and shall be subject to a
collection or deferred payment charge of 10% on the first $3 and 3% on the
excess over $3.
   (B)   The Utility Clerks are authorized to offer a special deferred payment
plan to be agreed to by the customer. The special deferred payment agreement
shall be substantially identical to the following form:
                                             Account
Number______________________
      SPECIAL DEFERRED PAYMENT AGREEMENT
      With this signature I agree to pay at least one-half of my natural gas
bill due February 15, 2001, deferring the balance to be paid equally with the
billings due May 15 and June 15, 2001. In doing so, I will keep my water and
sewer billing (if applicable) current. I also understand that late charges and
collection policies will apply to the deferred payments. Further, I have had
service with the City Utilities for 12 or more consecutive months, and my
utility bills are presently at current status, with no arrearage.
      Signed and sworn this_____ day of _____________, (Year).
      Customer Signature___________________ Service
Address_________________________
(2003 Code, § 13.04.180) (Res. 176, passed 6-21-1963; Ord. 1997-9, passed 8-25-
1997; Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-26-2001)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Board of Trustees established
   
51.02   Term of office and compensation
   
51.03   Powers and duties of Board
   
51.04   Meetings
   
51.05   Rates established
   
51.06   Sale of water beyond city limits
   
51.07   Construction process
   
51.08   Ownership, control, and maintenance
   
51.09   Payment for construction and new users
   
51.10   Amount of water sold
   
51.11   Contracts required
   
51.12   Payment in lieu of taxes
   
51.13   Street dedication
   
51.14   Waiving tap fees
   
51.15   Cross-connection control
Water Conservation
   
51.25   Definitions
   
51.26   Application
   
51.27   Declaration of need
   
51.28   Conservation measures
   
51.29   Voluntary conservation
   
51.30   Mandatory conservation
   
51.31   Rationing
   
51.32   Exceptions
   
51.33   Notice
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 BOARD OF TRUSTEES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There shall be, and there is hereby created, as provided by Chapter 96
of the Acts of the General Assembly of the state, 1921, § 16, as amended, a
Board of Trustees consisting of five trustees, which Board of Trustees shall
have the management and control of the city water works plant and system. Said
Board of Trustees hereby created shall consist of three members appointed by
the Mayor, such appointment by said Mayor to be subject to the approval of the
Common Council, not more than two of such Trustees so appointed shall be of the
same political party and said Trustees so appointed shall be residents of the
city.
   (B)   The Mayor and the Chairperson of the Water and Light Committee of the
Common Council, shall be ex-officio members of said Board; it being the
intention of this provision that said Board of five Trustees shall consist of
the Mayor then serving as such Mayor of said city, the Chairperson of the Water
and Light Committee, and the three members so appointed as hereinabove provided
with the approval of the Common Council.
(2003 Code, § 13.08.010)
§ 51.02 TERM OF OFFICE AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The term of the first Board of Trustees so appointed by said Mayor
shall be as follows. One of said trustees shall be appointed for three years,
one of said trustees shall be appointed for two years, and one of said trustees
shall be appointed for one year. All trustees appointed after the appointment
of the first Board of Trustees shall be appointed on or before the first
regular meeting in December and shall assume office on January 1 following and
shall serve for a period of three years.
   (B)   Upon termination of the term of office of any trustee appointed as
herein provided, or upon vacancy occurring in said Board for any reason, the
vacancy or vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment was made.
   (C)   All of said trustees shall serve without compensation, but shall
receive necessary expenses. Any Trustee, upon the expiration of his or her term
of office, may be reappointed to succeed himself or herself in the manner
herein provided. The Mayor shall act as Chairperson of the Board of Trustees.
(2003 Code, § 13.08.020)
§ 51.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD.
   Said Board of Trustees shall have complete control of said water works plant
and system, and shall be charged with the duty of managing the same for the
benefit of said city; and shall have full and complete authority to employ a
Superintendent and through such Superintendent to employ, discharge, and fix
the compensation of all employees of said water works plant; and shall have the
power, directly or through its authorized agents, to make all contracts for the
purchase of supplies and fuel, and the construction or acquisition of
extensions, betterments, and improvements to said water works plant and system,
shall have power to make rules and regulations governing the furnishing of
service to patrons and for the payment of same; and for providing for
discontinuance of service to those failing to pay therefor when due, until
payment is made, the Common Council, upon the recommendation of said Board of
Trustees, shall provide penalties for the violation of such rules and
regulations and for the use of such service without the consent or knowledge of
the authorities in charge thereof, and to provide penalties for all
interference, trespassing, or injury to any such water works plant and system,
or appliances connected therewith, or premises on which the same may be
located.
(2003 Code, § 13.08.030)
§ 51.04 MEETINGS.
   Said Board of Trustees hereby created shall hold at least one meeting in
each month. Failure on the part of any member of said Board appointed as herein
provided to attend three consecutive meetings, unless such absence is excused
by said Board, shall terminate his or her appointment and the vacancy thus
caused shall be filled in the manner herein provided. The Mayor may remove for
cause any appointive member of said Board.
(2003 Code, § 13.08.040) (Ord. 73, passed 12-27-1941)
§ 51.05 RATES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Monthly rates.
Monthly Metered Rates Rate Per Month (Per 1,000 Gallons)
Monthly Metered Rates Rate Per Month (Per 1,000 Gallons)
First 2,000 gallons   $10.65
Next 2,000 gallons    $8.51
Next 6,000 gallons    $6.78
Next 10,000 gallons   $6.06
Next 25,000 gallons   $5.08
Next 40,000 gallons   $3.38
Over 100,000 gallons  $2.18
 
   (B)   Minimum charge per month.
Size of Meter Rate Per Month
Size of Meter    Rate Per Month
5/8-inch meter   $21.31
3/4-inch meter   $29.79
1-inch meter     $52.09
1 1/2-inch meter $121.16
2-inch meter     $218.07
3-inch meter     $484.58
4-inch meter     $872.25
6-inch meter     $1,986.81
 
   (C)   Connection charges.
 
Size of Meter          Charge per Connection
Less than 1-inch meter $400
1-inch or larger meter Actual cost
 
   (D)   Equipment replacement charges.
 
Type of equipment       Replacement charge
Meter interface antenna $75
Meter shut-off valve    $75
 
   (E)   Automatic sprinklers.
Size of Connection Rate Per Annum
Size of Connection  Rate Per Annum
2-inch connections  $87.20
3-inch connections  $193.85
4-inch connections  $339.20
5-inch connections  $775.40
6-inch connections  $1,381.05
10-inch connections $2,156.45
12-inch connections $3,101.40
 
   (F)   Fire protection.
 
User                                                           Rate Per Annum
Private hydrants, each                                         $775.37
Wholesale users (Hymera, Shakamak State Park, Ellis) Per 1,000 $4,595.00
gallons
 
(2003 Code, § 13.08.050) (Ord. 2015-8, passed 11-30-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-2,
passed 3-11-2019)
§ 51.06 SALE OF WATER BEYOND CITY LIMITS.
   The city will sell water to persons outside the corporate limits of the city
if all requirements and conditions of this chapter are met and if the city has
sufficient water to sell. Further, the city may discontinue the sale and supply
of water at any time and for so long as it or any of its agents deem in the
best interests of the city.
(2003 Code, § 13.08.060) (Ord. 1976-11, passed 8-30-1976)
§ 51.07 CONSTRUCTION PROCESS.
   The city shall determine the size of waterline and material used in the
construction of the waterline to be laid and, prior to connecting the new
waterline to the city’s water supply, shall inspect the new waterline. Should
any deficiencies in construction, as the city shall determine, exist, the city
may refuse to connect the new waterline to its water supply until correction of
such deficiencies.
(2003 Code, § 13.08.070) (Ord. 1976-11, passed 8-30-1976)
§ 51.08 OWNERSHIP, CONTROL, AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   At the moment complete connection is made by the city of the new
waterline and the city’s water supply, title, ownership, and complete control
of the new waterline shall pass to the city; provided, however, that the city
will not maintain the new waterline or any portion of it for a period of 365
days from the date of such connection.
   (B)   After 365 days from the date of such connection has elapsed, the city
will, in addition to the title, ownership, and complete control acquired at the
time of connection, also maintain the new waterline to the water meter only.
(2003 Code, § 13.08.080) (Ord. 1976-11, passed 8-30-1976)
§ 51.09 PAYMENT FOR CONSTRUCTION AND NEW USERS.
   (A)   Subsequent to the installation of the new waterline, any user
connecting to the new waterline shall pay to the city a sum equal to the amount
contributed by each user participating in the installation of the original
waterline plus 10% of that amount until a date which is the earlier of either:
      (1)   Each user participating in the installation of the original
waterline has recovered its pro rata cost of installation; or
      (2)   The expiration of five years from the date of connection with the
water supply of the city.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such amount by the city, the city shall pay such
amount to either of the following, with no liability to the city for making
such payment:
      (1)   A corporation established by the users of the waterline; or
      (2)   Such person as the users of the waterline agree, after presentation
to the city of a verified writing evidencing such agreement in a writing and
releasing the city from any liability for making payment to such person.
(2003 Code, § 13.08.090) (Ord. 1976-11, passed 8-30-1976)
§ 51.10 AMOUNT OF WATER SOLD.
   The city shall sell such water as available after satisfying first, the
needs of users within the corporate limits of the city, second, those persons
with whom the city has contracted to supply a minimum amount of water, and
third, such other users as the city in its sole discretion deems in the best
interests of the city.
(2003 Code, § 13.08.100) (Ord. 1976-11, passed 8-30-1976)
§ 51.11 CONTRACTS REQUIRED.
   All persons installing a new waterline shall execute a contract with the
city agreeing to the terms and conditions of this chapter, as now in force, or
as hereafter amended.
(2003 Code, § 13.08.110) (Ord. 1976-11, passed 8-30-1976)
§ 51.12 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES.
   (A)   The city water utility shall pay an amount semi-annually to the city
which is sufficient to compensate the city for the taxes due the city which
would have been paid on the utility property were it privately owned.
   (B)   Such funds paid in lieu of taxes shall be transferred to the General
Fund.
(2003 Code, § 13.08.120) (Ord. 1981-10, passed 6-8-1981)
Editor’s Note:
   Application and enforcement of this section has been suspended by Res. 2017-
10, passed 8-14-2017
§ 51.13 STREET DEDICATION.
   The city hereby dedicates the use of streets and alleys to the use of the
city’s Water Department, subject to restoration.
(2003 Code, § 12.12.010) (Res. passed 10-7-1969)
§ 51.14 WAIVING TAP FEES.
   The Mayor be and is hereby authorized to execute and deliver the city’s
waivers of waterline tap fees on behalf of the city for the benefit of
landowners who contribute waterline easements to the city.
(Res. 2012-4, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 51.15 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   That a cross-connection shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one which contains potable
water from the City of Jasonville water system, and the other, water from a
private source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or
chemicals, whereby there may be flow from one system to the other, the
direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between two systems.
   (B)   That no person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other that the regular public water supply
of the City of Jasonville may enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Jasonville Water Board and by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management in accordance with 327 AC 8-10.
   (C)   That it shall be the duty of the Water Board of the City of Jasonville
to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water
system where cross-connections with the public water system is deemed possible.
The frequency of inspections and re-inspections based on potential health
hazards involved shall be as established by the Jasonville Water Board.
   (D)   That upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the
Jasonville Water Board shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable
time to examine the property served by a connection to the public water system
of Jasonville for cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant
of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed
evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
   (E)   That the Jasonville Water Board is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (F)   That, if it is deemed by the Jasonville Water Board that a cross
connection or an emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and
requires immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with
the Clerk of the City of Jasonville and delivered to the consumer's premises,
service may be immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity
for hearing within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   That all consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced-pressure-principle backflow preventer
(check valve) in the main water line serving the premises. The backflow
preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to
flooding or freezing.
   (H)   That this section does not supersede the State Uniform Plumbing Code
or any current plumbing ordinances of the City of Jasonville, but is
supplementary to them.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 9-12-2016)
WATER CONSERVATION
§ 51.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINISHED WATER. Water treated in a manner that it is suitable for human
consumption.
   LOCAL UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. Any county or municipality having the ability to
promulgate ordinances, including those having enforceable penalties related to
water use.
   MANDATORY CONSERVATION. Compliance with a local unit of government’s
imposition of requirements that are designed to reduce certain kinds and types
of water use.
   TREATED WATER. Water treated in a manner that it is suitable for human
consumption or for another designated use.
   VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION. Compliance with a local unit of government’s request
to reduce water use.
   WATER MANAGEMENT STRATEGY. A plan adopted by a local unit of government
together with its water resource manager or utility to reduce the demand upon
both raw water supply and treated or finished water.
   WATER RATIONING. Compliance with a local unit of government’s imposition of
restrictions that will reduce demand for water to a maximum allowable quantity
within a finite time interval (e.g., gallons per person per day).
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -2012)
§ 51.26 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all persons, firms, partnerships,
corporations, company, or organizations connected to the city’s public water
system or using water therefrom (hereafter, users).
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -2012)
§ 51.27 DECLARATION OF NEED.
   Upon determining that the city’s public water system is in a condition of
water shortage, the city shall declare a water conservation emergency and
establish the appropriate measures and the duration thereof.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -2012)
§ 51.28 CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   (A)   Practices that conserve water should be used at all times.
   (B)   Examples of conservation measures include:
      (1)   Judiciously sprinkling, watering, or irrigating shrubbery, trees,
grass, ground covers, plants, vines gardens, vegetables, or any other
vegetation; eliminating wasteful sprinkling of impervious surfaces, such as
streets and sidewalks;
      (2)   Limiting water use while washing trucks, trailers, mobile homes,
railroad cars, or any other type of mobile equipment;
      (3)   Limiting water use while cleaning sidewalks, driveways, paved
areas, or other outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   Repairing or replacing leaking water fixtures and service lines;
      (5)   Using appliances such as clothes washers and dishwashers only when
they are full;
      (6)   Turning off the water while brushing teeth or shaving;
      (7)   Using a higher lawnmower setting to provide natural ground shade
and promote the soil’s water retention;
      (8)   Washing cars with a bucket of soapy water and using a nozzle to
stop the flow of water from the hose between rinsing; and
      (9)   Covering swimming pools when not in use to reduce evaporation.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -2012)
§ 51.29 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   During moderate water shortages, users shall be requested to reduce water
consumption by practicing voluntary conservation. The city shall identify
reasonable and meaningful conservation techniques and provide such information
to users. The city may also implement conservation pricing and prohibitions to
encourage water conservation.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -2012)
§ 51.30 MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   During severe water shortages, users shall be prohibited from selected water
uses subject to reasonable terms, times, and conditions as the governing body
shall adopt and append to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -2012)
§ 51.31 RATIONING.
   In addition to mandatory conservation measures, users shall be limited
during extreme water shortage to water use by the following schedule:
   (A)   Residential use shall be limited to 140 gallons per residential unit
per day; and
   (B)   Business, commercial, agricultural, and industrial users shall be
limited to the volume of water deemed to be essential.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -2012)
§ 51.32 EXCEPTIONS.
   The city shall establish rationing exemptions necessary to provide for the
maintenance of adequate health, safety, and sanitary conditions.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -2012)
§ 51.33 NOTICE.
   Notice of the need for voluntary conservation measures shall be issued in a
local newspaper of general circulation or other means such as
(Missing Material)
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -2012)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Sewer charges based on water usage
   
52.03   Sewer charges/deposit
   
52.04   Disconnection of utility service
   
52.05   Strength-of-waste surcharge
   
52.06   Billing of service charges
   
52.07   Delinquent accounts
   
52.08   General provisions
   
52.09   Bylaws and regulations of the Board of Public Works and Safety
   
52.10   Damaging or defacing sewer works property
   
52.11   Right of entry of Superintendent and Inspector
   
52.12   Failure to comply with terms of this chapter
   
52.13   Connecting to sewage system
   
52.14   Private wells
   
52.15   Wastewater admissibility
   
52.16   Assurances relating to industrial cost recovery
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise defined herein, terms shall be as adopted in the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater
published by the American Public Health Association, and American Water Works
Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation and as set forth in 40
C.F.R. Pt. 136. Waste constituents and characteristics shall be measured by
Standard Methods, unless a mutually agreed upon acceptable alternative method
is adopted or in such other method established by state or federal or
regulatory agencies. Monitoring and metering will be carried out by customarily
accepted method.
   BENEFICIAL USES. These uses include, but are not limited to domestic,
municipal, agricultural and industrial use, power generation, recreation,
aesthetic enjoyment, navigation, and the preservation and enhancement of fish,
wildlife, and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other uses, both
tangible or intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters, or industrial wastes shall mean the quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations of BOD shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods therein and
conventionally referred to as BOD5.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city. It is the governing
body of the sewerage system of the city, which system is a public utility.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil pipes, waste pipes, and other drainage
pipes inside a building and conveys it to a point outside of the building.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted waters,
or industrial wastes is a measure of the oxygen equivalent of that portion of
the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong
chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   CITY. The City of Jasonville, Indiana.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which carries some surface or ground water runoff in
addition to sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Wastewater having or containing:
      (1)   Measurable biochemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Suspended solids;
      (3)   pH;
      (4)   Fecal coliform bacteria; or
      (5)   Additional pollutants identified or defined in the city’s national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit or by the state or Board.
   CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS (OF WASTEWATER). The chemical, physical,
bacteriological, and radiological properties, including volume, flow rate, and
such other properties which serve to define, classify, or measure the contents,
quality, quantity, and strength of wastewater.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   EQUIPMENT. All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, or dispensing of
food or from the handling, storage, or sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Any pollutants which are not compatible pollutants.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow into or enter the sewerage system or ground from
an industrial, manufacturing, commercial, or business process or from the
development, recovery, or processing of any natural resource carried on by any
person and shall further mean any waste from an industrial user, but not
including sanitary sewage or storm water.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering the sewerage system directly or via private
sewers, building drains, and building sewers connected therewith from the
ground through such means as, but not limited to, defective pipe joints,
connections, or manhole walls.
   INSPECTOR. A person authorized by the Board or the Superintendent to perform
inspection duties assigned by it or him or her.
   LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the sewerage system
or other place of disposal.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. A user discharging or introducing into the sewerage
system:
      (1)   A flow of more than 50,000 gallons per average workday;
      (2)   A toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in the Clean Water
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317 as now adopted or as hereafter amended;
      (3)   Has significant impact, either singularly or in combination with
other contributors, on the wastewater treatment plant or the quality of its
effluent; or
      (4)   Any substance unusual or unique in quality or quantity requiring
special attention or processing in order to effect proper wastewater treatment.
   MAY. The act referred to is both permissible and approved.
   NPDES PERMIT. National pollutant discharge elimination system permit now or
hereafter held by the city and setting forth conditions for the discharge of
any pollutants or combination of pollutants.
   NUISANCE. Any substance which is injurious to health or offensive to the
senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with
the comfort or enjoyment of life or property.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES. All annual expenses related directly to
operating and maintaining the sewage works as identified in Uniform System of
Accounts for Wastewater Utilities or as prescribed by the state’s Board of
Accounts under general headings, Plant Operation and Maintenance, Sewer
Operation and Maintenance, Customer Accounts, Administrative and General,
Insurance and Taxes.
   PERSON. Any natural person, or public or private corporation, or any other
entity whatever.
   pH. The conventional scientific degree of acidity or alkalinity.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of water by waste, contaminants of
pollutants to a degree which renders such water unfit for beneficial uses.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned by the city.
   REAL PROPERTY. All non-movable, fixed in place item such as structures and
buildings housing equipment or otherwise used in the wastewater treatment plant
process.
   RECEIVING SEWER SYSTEM. The city’s municipal sewer system.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for procuring and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the sewage works to maintain its designed capacity and performance.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage such as, and having the characteristics of, domestic
sewage from dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, free from storm and surface water and
industrial wastes.
   SERVICE LIFE. The period of time during which a component of a wastewater
sewage works will be capable of performing a function; and the maximum life
components constructed under EPA Project No. are hereby set as follows:
      (1)   Real property: 50 years commencing from September 1, 1979;
      (2)   Process equipment: 30 years commencing from September 1, 1979; and
      (3)   Auxiliary equipment: 15 years commencing from September 1, 1979.
   SEWAGE. The water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting, pumping,
treating, and disposing of sewage and sludge.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying sewage or other liquids, and
solids suspended or entrained therein.
   SEWER CHARGES. Comprised of the user charges and separate amount for debt
service and user charges shall mean a system of charges levied on users of a
treatment works for the cost of operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of such works. In addition, each user shall pay an amount
sufficient to pay principal and interest (debt service) on any revenue bonds,
payable from the revenues of the sewage works, proportional to the equipment
and real property necessary for wastewater treatment for each user. The method
of computing the initial user charge and debt service charge is contained in a
report prepared by McCullough & Associates, Public Accountants, Indianapolis,
Indiana, and is incorporated as a part hereof. Prior to May, of each year, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare and present to the Common Council an accounting
of operation and maintenance expenses, replacement costs, and debt service for
the immediately preceding calendar year, and the Common Council shall, upon
receiving said accounting, effect any change in the monthly sewer charges
necessary to produce revenue proportionate to costs for each user.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The network of publicly-owned sewers and appurtenances used
for collection, transporting, and pumping wastewater to the treatment plant.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of STANDARD METHODS FOR THE EXAMINATION OF WATER AND
WASTEWATER, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation
and as set forth in the Congressional Record 40 C.F.R. Pt. 136.
   STRENGTH-OF-WASTES SURCHARGE. The extra user charges for sewerage services
assessed users whose sewage is of such a nature that it imposes upon the sewage
works a burden greater than that covered by the basic user charge.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent subject to the control of the Board in
all matters of the Sewer Department.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for sewerage services in addition to the basic service
charge.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in Standard Methods.
   USER. A person who introduces into or discharges into, including both the
owner and occupant of real estate from which is introduced or discharged into
the sewerage system, any substance whatsoever.
   USER CLASSES. For the purpose of the user charge system, each recipient
shall be either in the industrial class or the non-industrial class (including
domestic, commercial, institutional, and governmental). The industrial class,
as it pertains to the user charge system, shall include any user determined by
the Board of Public Works and Safety to be discharging waste resulting from any
industrial or manufacturing process; from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resource; or from any other process of operation
which produces waste of a strength greater than sanitary waste. The non-
industrial class shall include all domestic and governmental users and those
industrial, commercial, and institutional users whose wastes are segregated
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences where regular domestic
wastes are those wastes generated by normal domestic activity as determined by
the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   WASTE. Sanitary sewage and any and all other waste substances, liquid,
solid, gaseous, or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human
or animal origin, or from any producing, processing, manufacturing, or
industrial operation of whatever nature, including such waste placed within
containers of whatever nature prior to, and for purposes of, disposal.
   WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
by the city for treatment and disposing of sewage, sludge, and other sewage
constituents and products.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.010) (Ord. 80-1, passed 1-14-1980; Ord. 80-2, passed 1-14-
1980)
§ 52.02 SEWER CHARGES BASED ON WATER USAGE.
   (A)   Water obtained from the city’s water utility. The sewer charges made
for sewerage service rendered to each lot, parcel of real estate, or building
having any connection with the city’s sewerage system or otherwise discharging
sewage into that system, either directly or indirectly, shall be based upon the
quantity of water presumed to enter the public sewer after being used in or on
the property, as the quantity is measured by the water meter or meters therein
used by the city’s water utility, except as herein otherwise provided.
   (B)   Water obtained from other sources. Where the property obtains any part
of all of the water used from sources other than the city’s water utility, the
owner or the tenant, except for single-family residents, may be required by the
city to install and maintain at his or her own expense a meter or meters
acceptable to the city for the purpose of measuring the quantity of water
obtained from these other sources, or the city may determine the quantity of
such water by which means and methods it may find practicable.
   (C)   Exempt water; general. Where a significant portion of the metered
water does not and cannot enter the sewerage system either directly or
indirectly, and where the quantity of water entering the premises averages more
than 3,000 gallons per month, the person having charge of the property may
request permission from the city to install, at his or her own expense, either
an approved meter or meters to determine the quantity of water that cannot
enter the sewerage system or an approved sewage-measuring device or devices to
determine the volume of sewage that actually enters the sewerage system; when
appropriate, the city reserves the right to determine by whatever other means
and methods it may find practicable the percentage of the property’s metered
water that enters the sewerage system. In any case, the user charge shall be
applied to the quantity of water that can or actually does enter the public
sewers.
   (D)   Metering of sewage. The city may require a non-residential user to
install and maintain, at his or her own expense, an approved device to measure
directly the volume of wastes discharged to the sewerage system if these
volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered water consumption
records.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.020) (Ord. 80-1, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 52.03 SEWER CHARGES/DEPOSIT.
   (A)   
Metered Users
Monthly Flow Rate Per 1,000 Gallons Final Rates (effective 8/11/2014)
Residential and Commercial
First 2,000 gallons                 $12.28
Next 2,000 gallons                  $9.77
Next 6,000 gallons                  $8.63
Next 10,000 gallons                 $7.81
Next 15,000 gallons                 $7.50
Next 25,000 gallons                 $7.02
Next 40,000 gallons                 $6.38
Over 100,000 gallons                $5.53
Industrial
First 2,000 gallons                 $11.15
Next 2,000 gallons                  $8.88
Next 6,000 gallons                  $7.84
Next 10,000 gallons                 $7.11
Next 15,000 gallons                 $6.82
Next 25,000 gallons                 $6.38
Next 40,000 gallons                 $5.79
Over 100,000 gallons                $5.03
 
 
Monthly Minimum Charge
                        Gallons Allowed Rate
5/8-inch meter customer 2,000           $ 24.56
Industrial              100,000         $651.60
 
   (B)   In the event two or more users discharging sanitary sewage, water, or
other liquids into the city’s sewerage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in such case for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall
be averaged for each user and the minimum charge and the sewer charges shall
apply to each of the users served through the single water meter.
   (C)   (1)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as trailers,
apartments, or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, either directly
or indirectly, are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a
single meter, then in such case for billing purposes, the quantity of water
used shall be averaged for each user and the minimum charge and the sewer
charges shall apply to each of the units served through the single water meter.
      (2)   In the case of trailer parks, the number of dwelling units shall be
computed and interpreted as the number of trailers in use in said park, plus
any other dwelling units served through the meter. A dwelling unit shall be
interpreted as a room or rooms or any other space or spaces in which cooking
facilities are provided.
   (D)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as
for other uses, the city may in its discretion, make adjustments in the minimum
charge and in the use charge as may be equitable.
   (E)   For the service rendered to the city, the city shall be subject to the
same sewer charges hereinabove provided or to sewer charges established in
harmony therewith.
   (F)   The user charges and debt service charges set forth in division (A)
above shall be changed, as necessary, annually by the Common Council in
accordance with the definition of “sewer charge” in §
52.01.
   (G)   All applicants for service shall pay a cash deposit equal to the
amount of service for any regular billing period plus 30 days as estimated by
the company as a guarantee against the non-payment of bills for service. Such
cash deposit minus any unpaid amounts for service rendered the customer shall
be returned upon the discontinuance of service.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.030) (Ord. 80-1, passed 1-14-1980; Ord. 1996-9, passed 9-9-
1996; Ord. 2014-3, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 52.04 DISCONNECTION OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   (A)   Meter disconnections. Disconnection procedure will begin ten days
after the due date of April 1 until November 1. After this, the due date will
be November 2 until March 31, 14 days. The days and hours of disconnection are
Monday through Thursday from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.
   (B)   Prohibited disconnections.
      (1)   Medical. If a customer provides the utility office with a medical
statement from a licensed physician which states that disconnection would be a
serious and immediate threat to health and safety of a designated person in the
household of the customer, postponement of disconnection shall be continued for
ten days or upon the provision of an additional medical statement.
      (2)   Hardship. If financial hardship is the reason for his or her
inability to pay the full amount and:
         (a)   If the customer agrees to pay reasonable portion of the bill (no
less than $10);
         (b)   Agrees to pay the remainder of the outstanding bill within three
months (in equal monthly payments);
         (c)   Agrees to pay all undisputed future bills as they come due;
         (d)   Provided a similar agreement with the utility office has not
been made with this utility in the past 12 months; and
         (e)   Provided that the above agreement shall be in writing by the
utility office, signed by the customer and a representative of the utility.
      (3)   Default. Any person who defaults on this agreement must present his
or her case to the Common Council at a regular Council meeting and must have
full Council approval in order to regain services. Any charges or alterations
to this agreement must be presented to the Council at a regular Council meeting
and will be considered on an individual basis.
   (C)   Personal policy on disconnections. Upon disconnecting a customer, the
utility employee will:
      (1)   Identify himself or herself to the customer or any responsible
person on the premises;
      (2)   State the purpose of his or her presence;
      (3)   Give the customer information as to the reason for disconnection;
      (4)   If the customer is not home, the employee will leave a notice of
disconnection and the reason thereof;
      (5)   The employee will not accept any money from the customer for
payment of the bill; and
      (6)   The employee at all times will maintain a proper attitude. The
employee’s role will be to inform the customer of the disconnection and to
perform such. A discussion of the virtues of this policy is not in the scope of
the role of the employee.
   (D)   Involuntary disconnections without prior notice (immediate). Immediate
involuntary disconnections without prior notice may occur when:
      (1)   Dangerous conditions exist or there are hazards to life, physical
safety, or property;
      (2)   By order of the court or other public authority; or
      (3)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of gas or water is detected and
the utility has reasonable grounds to believe the customer is responsible.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.034) (Ord. passed 7-8-1991)
§ 52.05 STRENGTH-OF-WASTE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   Liability for surcharge. Each industrial or non-industrial user who
discharges wastes into the sewerage system shall be subject to a surcharge, in
addition to the regular sewer charges, based on both the biochemical oxygen
demand (or on the chemical oxygen demand where BOD cannot be determined) and
the suspended solids content of the wastes, if these wastes have a
concentration greater than the following:
      (1)   A biochemical oxygen demand of 300 milligrams per liter; or where
BOD cannot be determined, then, in lieu of BOD, a chemical oxygen demand of 600
milligrams per liter; or
      (2)   A suspended solids content of 350 milligrams per liter.
   (B)   Computation of surcharge.
      (1)   The surcharge shall be determined as follows.
      (2)   The excess pounds of BOD (or COD) and the suspended solids will
each be computed by first multiplying the customer’s billing sewage volume
measured in units of 1,000 gallons for the current billing period by the factor
0.00834 and then multiplying this product by the difference between:
         (a)   The concentrations measured in milligrams per liter of the BOD
(or COD) and of the suspended solids respectively in the customer’s sewage; and
         (b)   The allowed concentrations set out in division (A) above. The
surcharge for each constituent will then be determined by multiplying the
excess pounds of each constituent by the appropriate rate of surcharge set out
in division (C) below.
   (C)   Rates of surcharge. The rate of surcharge for each of the
aforementioned constituents shall be as follows:
      (1)   For biochemical oxygen demand (BOD): $0.20/lb;
      (2)   For chemical oxygen demand (COD) where BOD cannot be determined:
$0.20/lb; and
      (3)   For suspended solids: $0.14/lb.
   (D)   Revision of rates of surcharge. Prior to May 1 of each year, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall submit to the Common Council a comparison of the
calculated unit costs for removing BOD and suspended solids from the wastewater
treatment plant effluent during the previous calendar year with the unit
charges currently in effect in order that the Common Council may determine
whether the current rates of surcharge are adequate or should be changed by the
Council.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.040) (Ord. 80-1, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 52.06 BILLING OF SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Billing period. Sewer charges for sewerage service shall be prepared
and billed by the city along with the bills for water service and shall be
payable at the same time as the water bills.
   (B)   Liability for payment. The sewer charges for sewerage service shall be
billed to the person being billed for water service unless, by contract with
the utility, another person assumes such responsibility. If a tenant is billed,
the owner shall in no way be relieved of liability in the event payment is not
made by the tenant as herein required. Such owner shall have the right to
examine the city’s collection records to ascertain whether such charges have
been paid.
   (C)   First billings. The sewer charges and surcharges fixed in this chapter
shall be extended to and cover any additional premises hereafter served without
the need for any hearing or notice. If the first billing to a new customer
covers a period other than a full billing month, then the sewer charges for
such billing shall be made in keeping with standard practice in the water
utility. Subsequent sewerage service billings shall be for periods coinciding
with the billing periods for water service. If such sewer charges and/or
surcharges are changed, the first billing after such change may also be for a
period other than a full billing month in order to keep the sewerage billing
periods coincident with the water billing periods.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.050) (Ord. 80-1, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 52.07 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   How delinquencies arise. Charges for sewerage service levied pursuant
to this chapter shall be due and payable on or before the due dates shown on
the bills. Any service charge not paid by the due date (approximately 15 days
after the bill is rendered) shall be considered delinquent. Such delinquent
charge together with any applied penalty shall be collectible as hereinafter
set forth.
   (B)   Collection through the tax duplicate. As provided by state statutes,
delinquent sewerage service charges may be made a lien against the property
served through certification to the Auditor and to the Recorder of the County.
In such case, the delinquent service charges, together with the mandatory
penalty of 10%, shall be placed on the tax duplicate and be collected in the
same manner as regular taxes and assessments are collected.
   (C)   Collection through court action. In addition to the foregoing
remedies, the city shall have the right to bring a civil action to recover any
delinquent charges together with a penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorney’s
fee. It shall also have the right, as provided by state statutes, to foreclose
any lien established under the provisions of division (A) above, with recovery
of the charge, a penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorney’s fee.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.060) (Ord. 80-1, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 52.08 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Bylaws, rules, and regulations. The Common Council shall, in
accordance with state statutes, make and enforce whatever bylaws, rules, and
regulations it may deem necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient
management of the city’s sewage works, for the regulation, collection, and
refunding of the user charges for sewerage service and, in general, for the
implementation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Implementation of industrial cost recovery. In the event that any
industrial user, as defined in division (C) below, begins to discharge to the
sewage system, then the city shall develop and implement an industrial cost
recovery ordinance to be effective over the remaining cost recovery period,
hereby set at 30 years commencing one year after the final project inspection
and approval by E.P.A.
   (C)   Definition of user classes for industrial cost recovery.
      USER CLASSES. For the purposes of industrial cost recovery, each
recipient of municipal wastewater treatment services shall be either in the
industrial class or the non-industrial class. The industrial class, as it
pertains to industrial cost recovery, shall include:
         (a)   1.   Any non-governmental, non-residential user which discharges
more than the equivalent of 25,000 gallons per day of sanitary wastes and which
is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual of 1972, Office
of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
 
Division A - Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing;
Division B - Mining;
Division D - Manufacturing;
Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric. Gas and Sanitary
Services;
Division I - Services.
 
            2.   In determining the amount of a user’s discharge for purpose of
industrial cost recovery, domestic wastes or discharges from sanitary
conveniences shall be excluded.
            3.   After applying the sanitary waste exclusion in division (C)
(a)2. above, discharges in the above divisions that have a volume exceeding
25,000 gpd or the weight of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) or suspended solids
(SS) equivalent to that weight found in 25,000 gpd of sanitary waste are
considered industrial users. Sanitary wastes, for purposes of this calculation
of equivalency, are the waste discharged from residential users which has the
strength of 300 mg/l of BOD and 350 mg/l of SS.
         (b)   Any non-governmental user which discharges wastewater to the
treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to contaminate the sludge of the treatment works, or to injure or to
interfere with any sewage treatment process, or which constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or creates any hazard in or has
an adverse effect on the waters receiving any discharge from the treatment
works.
         (c)   The non-industrial class, as it pertains to industrial cost
recovery, shall include all domestic and governmental users and those
industrial, commercial, and institutional users whose wastes do not meet the
criteria for industrial users as stated above and as determined by the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.070) (Ord. 80-1, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 52.09 BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety may adopt and enforce such reasonable
regulations not in conflict herewith as it may be deemed necessary for the
safe, economical, and efficient management of the city’s sewerage system and
for the construction and use of building (or house) lateral sewers and
connections to the sewerage system, which regulations may include limitations
of or prohibition of introduction of storm water, surface water, and ground
water into the sewerage system.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.080) (Ord. 80-2, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 52.10 DAMAGING OR DEFACING SEWER WORKS PROPERTY.
   A person shall not maliciously, willfully, or recklessly break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the city sewerage system.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.090) (Ord. 80-2, passed 1-14-1980) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF SUPERINTENDENT AND INSPECTOR.
   The Superintendent, Inspector, or other duly authorized employees of the
city, upon reasonable notice to any person who is an owner, tenant, or occupant
of any real estate, is empowered to enter, upon presentation of proper
credentials, all premises for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measuring, sampling, and testing water, sewage, and industrial waste.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.100) (Ord. 80-2, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 52.12 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TERMS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   (1)   Accidental discharge of substances/chemicals. A user shall
notify the Superintendent immediately upon accidentally discharging chemicals,
corrosive substances, or anything deleterious to the sewerage system or
treatment process, or wastewaters in violation of this chapter, to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the city to minimize damage to the sewerage
system and treatment processes.
      (2)   This notification shall be followed within seven days of the date
of occurrence by a detailed written report describing the causes of the
accidental discharge and the measures being taken to prevent future similar
occurrences. Such notification will not relieve users of liability for any
expense, loss, or damage to the sewerage system or treatment process, or any
fines or penalties imposed by the Board, which expense, loss, or damage shall
be paid for by the user.
      (3)   A notice shall be furnished and permanently posted advising
designated responsible employees to call the Superintendent in case of
accidental discharge in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Continued failure to meet wastewater admissibility requirements or the
terms of major contributor permits. The Board shall have the following methods
of recourse in the event of repeated or willful failure by a user to meet the
wastewater admissibility requirements of this chapter. In addition, the city
shall have and the Board may exercise all other legally available remedies.
      (1)   Submission of time schedule. When the city finds that a discharge
of wastewater has been taking place, in violation of the admissibility
requirements prescribed in §
52.15 or the provisions of a major contributor permit, the city may require the
user to submit for approval a detailed time schedule of specific actions,
acceptable to the Board, which the user shall take in order to prevent or
correct a violation of requirements.
      (2)   Issuance of cease and desist orders. When the city finds that a
discharge of wastewater has taken place or is likely to take place in violation
of the admissibility requirements of §
52.15 or of a major contributor permit, the Board may issue an order to cease
and desist, and may direct that the user not complying with such requirements:
         (a)   Comply forthwith;
         (b)   Comply with a time schedule set forth by the Board; or
         (c)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action.
      (3)   Injunction. When the city finds that a discharge of wastewater is
in violation of the admissibility requirements of §
52.15 or the provisions of a major contributor permit, or otherwise causes or
threatens to cause a condition of pollution or nuisance, the Board, on behalf
of the city, may petition any court of proper jurisdiction for the issuance of
a preliminary or permanent injunction or both, as may be appropriate, in
restraining the continuance of such a discharge.
      (4)   Termination of service. The city may revoke any major contributor
permit or terminate or cause to be terminated wastewater service in whole or in
part if a violation of any provision of this chapter or the major contributor
permit is found to exist, or if a discharge causes or threatens to cause a
condition of pollution or nuisance as defined in this chapter, or causes the
city to violate the terms of its NPDES permit or any state or federal law or
regulation.
      (5)   Administrative appeals. Any user affected by any decisions, action,
or determination, including cease and desist orders, made by the
Superintendent, interpreting or implementing the provisions of this chapter,
any permit issued herein, or any regulation of the Board adopted pursuant
hereto, may file with the Board a written request for review and consideration
within ten days of such a decision, action, or determination, setting forth in
detail the facts supporting the user’s request for reconsideration. The appeal
shall, if reasonably possible, be heard by the Board within 30 days from the
date of filing. The Superintendent’s decision, action, or determination shall
remain in effect during such period of reconsideration, unless the Board
otherwise determines on request of the user.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.110) (Ord. 80-2, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 52.13 CONNECTING TO SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Privies, septic tanks, cesspools, and the like. Except as otherwise
provided by the Board, the city, or the state or any of its agencies, a person
shall not construct or maintain a privy, septic tank, cesspool, or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (B)   Required use of sewers. The owner of all residential, commercial, and
industrial or other buildings or property used for human occupancy, employment,
or recreation situated within the city is hereby required to install suitable
toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities to a public sewer or a
private sewer facility. Such connection shall be made to a public sewer except
where there is no public sewer within 175 feet of such owner’s residence or
business, as measured from the sewerline and the owner’s residence or business.
If a connection is made to a private sewage system as permitted herein and a
public sewer later comes within this distance, a connection shall be made to
the public sewer and the connection to the private sewage facility shall be
abandoned. It shall be a violation of this chapter not to make the connection
required herein within 90 days after written notice to do so has been given to
the owner by the city. Such notice may be given by delivery or be certified
mail to the owner’s last known address.
   (C)   Construction of building for house lateral sewers. The size, shape,
alignment, materials, or construction of a building (or house) lateral sewer
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing the pipe, jointing, testing,
and backfilling the trench shall conform to the requirements of the building
and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and regulations of the city.
   (D)   Determining major contributors. Each commercial and industrial user
shall supply the city with information about expected wastewater constituents
and characteristics to be used in determining whether or not the user will be a
major contributor.
   (E)   Separate sewer requirements. A separate and independent building (or
house) lateral sewer shall be provided for every building (or house); except
where one building (or house) stands at the rear of another on an interior lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
(or house) through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway. In such cases,
the building (or house) lateral sewer from the front building (or house) may be
extended to the rear building (or house) and the whole considered as one
building (or house) lateral sewer.
   (F)   Use of old building (or house) lateral sewer for a new building (or
house). Old building (or house) lateral sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings (or houses) only when they are determined, upon examination and
test by the Inspector, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Elevation and location of building (or house) lateral sewer. Whenever
reasonably possible, the building (or house) lateral sewer shall be brought to
the building (or house) at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings (or houses) in which any building (or house) drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the appropriate public sewer, wastewater carried by such
building (or house) drain shall be lifted by an appropriate means and
discharged to the building (or house) lateral sewer.
   (H)   Connection of downspouts, drains, and the like. No person shall
hereafter connect or reconnect roof downspouts, footing drains, areaway drains,
driveways, parking lots, or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to
a building (or house) lateral sewer or building (or house) drain which is in
turn connected directly or indirectly to the sewer system.
   (I)   Inspection; supervision of connection. The applicant for the building
(or house) lateral sewer permit shall notify the Board or its designated
representative when a building (or house) lateral sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the sewerage system. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Inspector or his or her representative using material and
techniques conforming to the requirement of the Board.
   (J)   Extensions outside of the city. A person shall not directly or
indirectly make any connections with or openings into the sewerage system for
the purpose of serving any areas outside the corporate boundaries of the city
without first securing a specific resolution of the Board describing the real
estate and property to be served and authorizing such connection.
   (K)   Prohibition of discharge to natural outlets. It shall be unlawful to
discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other polluted waters except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
   (L)   Right to prohibit new connections. The city shall have the right to
prohibit new connections when the excess capacity of the sewerage system is
deemed insufficient by the Board to accommodate the expected flow, BOD, and/or
suspended solids loading from the prospective sewer user.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.130) (Ord. 80-2, passed 1-14-1980) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 PRIVATE WELLS.
   (A)   Registration of wells. Every owner or occupant of real estate within
the city or real estate from which there is a lateral sewer into the sewerage
system shall, on a form provided by the Board, report the existence of such
well to the Clerk-Treasurer. The information furnished on such form by the
owner or occupant shall include, among other items, the name of the owner and
occupant of such real estate, the location on said real estate of such well,
the size of the well pipe, the size (voltage, amperage, and horsepower where
ascertainable) of the well pump motor, and purpose for which the well water is
used by the owner, occupant, or others.
   (B)   Inspection of wells. The Board may direct the Superintendent,
Inspector, or any other employee to enter upon private property for the purpose
of inspecting to determine the existence of private wells, to oversee or to
direct the installation of metering or timing devices, and to read such meters
and devices.
   (C)   Well digging. A person shall not hereafter dig or drive a well within
the city limits without first making application therefor to the city’s
Building Department, which application shall be on a form approved by the Board
and showing all pertinent data regarding size and flow. The application shall
be signed by both the installer of the well (the contractor or other person
doing the work) and the owner or his or her agent (other than the installer).
The failure to file such an application shall be a violation of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.140) (Ord. 80-2, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 52.15 WASTEWATER ADMISSIBILITY.
   (A)   Major contributor permits.
      (1)   Any industrial user and any other user on demand of the Board shall
provide the city with sufficient information to determine if he or she is a
major contributor. Any user determined to be a major contributor shall be
required to obtain a permit which describes the wastewater constituents and
characteristics allowed and which sets forth the applicable surveillance
schedule and the monitoring requirements the user shall be subject to in order
to discharge into the sewerage system. A major contributor permit shall be
valid for four years unless processing changes are made that, in the opinion of
the Superintendent or Board, alter the wastewater constituents and
characteristics significantly. In the event of such a change, a new application
shall be filed accordingly. A permit may be renewed without re-application at
the end of the four years at the discretion of the city.
      (2)   Nothing in a major contributor permit shall constitute an exception
to the prohibitions and limitations on wastewater admissibility as set forth
herein. Major contributors are subject to all applicable fees, rates, and
charges set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Major contributor permit applications, fees.
      (1)   Major contributors shall make application for the proposed
discharge on a form provided by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, studies, or other information
considered pertinent by the Board.
      (2)   Permit fees for major contributors shall be as follows.
 
Initial Major Contributor Permit                                   Permit Fee
Industries connected to sewerage works prior to the effective date $20
of this chapter
Industries connected to sewerage works after the effective date of $100
this chapter
 
   (C)   Surveillance of major contributors.
      (1)   To establish a feasible surveillance schedule, the following
classes of major contributors are formed.
 
Class Qualifications                            Minimum Surveillance Schedule
A     Flow of 100,000 gallons per day (0.1 MGD) Quarterly
      and greater per average workday
      Flow from 0.05 MGD to 0.1 MGD per average
B     workday or discharge with constituents or Semi-annually
      characteristics that result in a major
      contributor classification
 
      (2)   The surveillance period will normally be for a period of seven
consecutive days, but can be of longer or shorter duration at the discretion of
the Board or Superintendent. In cases where the surveillance period extends for
a greater number of consecutive days than seven, the city shall have the
prerogative of selecting the seven consecutive days of its choice for
establishing rates and charges as provided for in this chapter.
      (3)   The charge for each surveillance survey shall be $20 per day with a
maximum charge for seven days of $140.
   (D)   Monitoring of major contributors.
      (1)   A major contributor shall install at its own expense:
         (a)   A suitable control manhole, together with such necessary
appurtenances in or on each building lateral sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling, and measurement of the wastewater; and
         (b)   Such sampling devices as may be reasonably necessary, all unless
otherwise instructed by the city.
      (2)   A user may be required by the city to install such manholes to
verify his or her status either as a major contributor or otherwise. Such
manholes and sampling and testing devices shall be constructed and maintained
to the city’s satisfaction at the expense of the user, but shall be under the
control of the city.
      (3)   The city may provide monitoring equipment during a surveillance
period for control manholes.
      (4)   Monitoring equipment shall, unless otherwise specified by the city,
include a device for automatically measuring flow and a device for
automatically taking a composite sample of wastewater during a 24-hour period.
   (E)   Limitations on point of discharge. No person shall discharge any
substance directly into a manhole or other opening in the sewerage system other
than through the approved building (or house) lateral sewer, except in
accordance with the terms of this chapter or by express permission of the
Board.
   (F)   Special agreements. Special agreements and arrangements between the
city and any person may be established by the Board within the terms and intent
of this chapter when, in the opinion of the Board, unusual or extraordinary
circumstances compel special terms and conditions whereby an unusual wastewater
can be accepted for treatment, subject to payment of applicable fees.
   (G)   Admissibility. No person shall discharge to the sewerage system wastes
which cause, threaten to cause, or are capable of causing, either alone or by
interaction with other substances:
      (1)   A fire or explosion;
      (2)   Obstruction of flow in the sewerage system or injury to the system
or damage to the wastewater collection, treatment, or disposal facilities;
      (3)   Danger to life or safety of personnel;
      (4)   A nuisance or hindrance of the effective maintenance or operation
of the sewer system, such as through having an unusually strong or unpleasant
odor;
      (5)   Air pollution by the release of toxic or unusually malodorous gases
or malodorous gas-producing substances; or
      (6)   Which would not meet any limitations imposed by the treatment
facilities of the city’s wastewater treatment plant.
   (H)   Admissibility; prohibition of unpolluted waters. Unpolluted water,
including, but not limited to, city water, cooling water, process water, or
blowdown from cooling towers or evaporative coolers shall not be discharged
through direct or indirect connection to the sewerage system for purposes of
diluting wastewater in order to reduce sewer rates of charges of the user.
Limitations on the amount of unpolluted water that is discharged shall be part
of a major contributor’s permit.
   (I)   Admissibility; limitations on radioactive wastes. No person shall
discharge, or cause to be discharged, any radioactive waste into the sewerage
system.
   (J)   Admissibility; limitations on the use of garbage. Only properly
shredded garbage may be discharged into the sewerage system.
   (K)   Admissibility; limitations on wastewater strength. All constituents
and characteristics which singly or in combination may damage structures or
interfere with treatment process include, but are not limited to, the following
constituents and characteristics, with maximum concentration as shown below:
      (1)   No person shall discharge any wastewater with;
         (a)   A BOD5 concentration in excess of 300 mg/l (milligrams per
liter), except in the case of a major contributor;
         (b)   A suspended solids concentration in excess of 350 mg/l;
         (c)   A temperature higher than 150°F (65.5°C); or
         (d)   A pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0.
      (2)   No person shall discharge any wastewater containing concentration
in excess of:
         (a)   0.2 mg/l cadmium;
         (b)   2.0 mg/l cooper;
         (c)   1.0 mg/l cyanide;
         (d)   2.0 mg/l lead;
         (e)   1.0 mg/l mercury;
         (f)   2.0 mg/l nickel;
         (g)   2.0 mg/l silver;
         (h)   2.0 mg/l total chromium;
         (i)   4.0 mg/l zinc;
         (j)   200 mg/l oil and grease (animal or vegetable origin);
         (k)   100 mg/l oil and grease (mineral or petroleum origin); or
         (l)   1.0 mg/l phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the
wastewater treatment process.
      (3)   No person shall discharge any wastewater which will cause the city
to violate any conditions of its NPDES permit.
   (L)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors. Such interceptors shall be
provided at:
      (1)   All restaurants; and
      (2)   All industrial or commercial enterprises when, in the opinion of
the city, they are necessary to contain grease, flammable wastes, or sand and
other harmful inert materials. All interceptors shall be approved by the city
and shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (M)   Liability for maintenance of pretreatment and other equipment. Where
pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the user at his or her expense, and shall at all reasonable times
be open to inspection and testing by the city.
   (N)   Right to reject waste. The city shall have the right to reject waste
and prohibit the introduction of rejected waste into the sewerage system, or
the city may require pretreatment of the waste when the strength or character
of the waste is such that it could cause damage to, or interfere with, the
operation of the sewerage system.
   (O)   Surcharge for strength of waste. The city shall have the right to
impose a surcharge for waste discharged into the sewerage system whose strength
or character is such that the introduction of such waste into the sewerage
system may cause additional costs to the system.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.150) (Ord. 80-2, passed 1-14-1980) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 ASSURANCES RELATING TO INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   The city will institute and develop an approvable plan and schedule of
implementation for a system of user charges that will assure that each
recipient of waste treatment services within the city’s service area will pay
its proportionate share of the costs of operation and maintenance including
replacement, as defined in 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. B, part 35, of all waste
treatment services provided by said city, and further that such system or
systems will be properly and adequately maintained; and that in all respects 40
C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. B, part 35 will be fully complied with.
   (B)   Assurance is hereby given to the Environmental Protection Agency that
the planned sanitary sewer project is for a new sewer system in a community in
existence on June 28, 1974, in the city and that such system will have
sufficient capacity to adequately treat all collected sewage; and that the bulk
(not less than two-thirds) of the flow design capacity through the sewer system
will be for wastewaters originating from the said community (habitation) in
existence on June 28, 1974.
   (C)   The city also hereby gives assurance that it will fully comply with
the industrial cost recovery provisions of 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. B, part 35,
and specifically that all industrial users will be required to pay that portion
of the grant amount allowable to the treatment of its wastes; and that the said
city will comply with all federal statutory and regulatory requirements as set
out in 40 C.F.R. Pt. 30, Subpt. C, and will further establish, maintain, and
make available for inspection such instruments and records as are necessary to
document compliance with all grant conditions including, but not limited to,
the foregoing pertaining to user charges and industrial cost recovery.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.160) (Res. 1975, passed 4-23-1975)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The commission of any act prohibited by this chapter or by lawful
order of the Superintendent or lawful order or regulation of the Board, or the
failure to perform without lawful order of the Superintendent or lawful order
or regulation of the Board shall be a punishable violation of this chapter for
which, unless there is another specific penalty provided, the penalty shall be
a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500. In the case of discharges into
the sewerage system in violation of this chapter, each day of violation
constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   A person shall not knowingly make or submit to the city a false
statement, representation, record, report, plan, or other document required to
be filed hereunder or under a duly adopted regulation of the Board, or
voluntarily filed with the intent that the city rely thereon, or falsify,
tamper with, or knowingly render inaccurate any monitoring, testing, measuring,
or timing device required or installed under there regulations.
(2003 Code, § 13.12.120)
CHAPTER 53: SANITATION UTILITY: GARBAGE
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Rates and charges
   
53.03   Establishment of trash collection fund
   
53.04   Procedure
   
53.05   Optional recycling service
   
53.06   Excluded entities
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:
   DWELLING(S). A residential structure used primarily as a place of abode for
one or more persons, including multi-family houses (two-units or duplexes,
three units or triplexes or four units or quadplexes). The collection of refuse
and recyclables from multi-family structures will be based on a "per household"
collection and billed separately.
   DWELLING UNIT. A portion of a residential structure, used by one family for
cooking, living, and sleeping purposes.
   GARBAGE CONTAINER. A 96 gallon plastic container used for the placement of
discarded household waste.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Includes material or substance that is toxic or hazardous
waste as defined in either the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. § 691 et
seq.) or in the Indiana Environmental Management Act (I.C. 13-11-1-1 et seq.),
or special nuclear byproducts material within the meaning of the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954.
   HEAVY TRASH. Includes household furniture, mattresses, large toys, carpeting
tied in three foot bundles or greater, and appliances not containing
chlorofluorocarbons (“CFCs”) and hydrofluorocarbons (“HCFCs”) such as
refrigerators and air conditioners. Specifically excluded are construction
debris and items defined as YARD WASTE herein. Also excluded are televisions.
HEAVY TRASH items shall not include items weighing in excess of 100 pounds.
   HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Includes ordinary, non-hazardous household refuse, not
requiring special handling such as garbage, rubbish and trash resulting from
the normal operation and function of a household. It specifically includes
kitchen wastes, cans, bottles, household food, vegetable matter attendant to
preparation of foods, and accumulations of animal food. Also included are
newspapers and magazines, discarded clothing and similar materials. It does not
include material within the definition of "Heavy Trash" such as furniture or
appliances. Expressly excluded from the definition of HOUSEHOLD WASTE are items
defined herein as “yard waste,” construction debris, hazardous materials,
including hazardous waste, human/animal excretions and carcasses.
   RECYCLABLES. Includes newspaper, mixed paper (telephone books, cereal boxes,
corrugated cardboard, magazines/catalogs, flyers, junk mail, stationary,
office, and copy paper, paper grocery bags, computer paper) tin/steel/aluminum
cans, plastic containers (#1 through #7, milk and beverage containers). Motor
oil and other hazardous materials will not be a required recyclable to be
picked up by the contractor. This list of recyclable materials may be expanded
based on the existence of an established secondary market for a commodity.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. A 96 gallon plastic container used for the placement of
discarded recyclables.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Includes single family dwelling units, multi-family
dwelling units or mobile homes. It does not include business or professional
establishments, apartment complexes, schools, motels or hotels.
   YARD WASTE. Compostable organic waste resulting from the maintenance of
lawns, gardens, landscaping, and trees which include grass clippings, tree
branches and limbs, small plants and twigs.
(Ord. 2017-14-1, passed 12-28-17)
§ 53.02 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2018 (utility bills due February, 2018), every
person who either owns or rents residential property, multi-family dwelling
units or mobile homes receiving water service from the city and within the
corporate limits of the city shall be charged a monthly solid waste collection
to be added as a separate charge on his or her monthly water bill and payable
at the City Utility Office. The fees shall be charged pursuant to the following
schedule:
 
Year Residential Rate
2018 $15
2019 $15
2020 $15
2021 $15
2022 $15
 
   (B)   Regardless of how payments may be designated, partial payments of the
combined water, solid waste collection, gas, and sewer bill shall be applied
first to the solid waste collection bill; second to the water bill; third to
the sewer bill; and last to the gas bill.
   (C)   Excluded from this fee are business and commercial concerns, and
governmental entities.
   (D)   If a residential owner or occupant does not pay the monthly trash
collection fee within 60 days after it becomes due, the city shall discontinue
the collection service to that residential unit, and it will be the obligation
of the owner or occupant to either make other arrangements for trash collection
and removal or pay the past due fees plus a continuation of service charge of
$25 for resumption of city service to that residence.
   (E)   Failure to pay the collection fee for a period of 90 days after it
becomes due shall result in the city attaching a lien on the applicable real
estate as an additional assessment to the property taxes applicable thereto.
   (F)   Regardless of how payments may be designated, partial payments of the
combined water, trash collection, recycling and sewer bill shall be applied
first to the water bill; second to the trash, recycling and heavy trash
collection bill; and last to the sewer bill.
   (G)   Household waste collection and disposal bills that remain unpaid 30
days past the stated due date on the utility bill shall incur an additional 10%
penalty. The city shall also be entitled to collect its reasonable attorneys'
fees, fees and costs incurred in enforcing this provision.
   (H)   The amount of the monthly trash collection fee shall be periodically
reviewed by the Common Council and the Mayor and no more than 24 months shall
elapse without a review.
(Ord. 2017-14-1, passed 12-28-17)
§ 53.03 TRASH COLLECTION FUND.
   (A)   The collected fees shall be deposited in a separate fund and
identified as the Trash Collection Fund, which fund is hereby established, and
only the costs of operation and maintenance of the service shall be paid from
the fund, except as provided in §
53.03(C), below.
   (B)   Any net accumulated surplus after payment of operational and
maintenance costs incurred in the application and enforcement of this ordinance
shall be retained to pay for future increases in costs, replacement of or
additions to trash collection equipment or future reductions of the trash
collection fee by ordinance.
(Ord. 2017-14-1, passed 12-28-17)
§ 53.04 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For residential premises and all multi-family dwelling units and
mobile homes located and situated inside the corporate limits of the city,
trash collection by the city or the city's contractor shall occur once each
week.
   (B)   All ordinary and usual household waste to be collected shall be packed
and securely contained in commercially available plastic bags and shall be
placed in 96 gallon totes provided by the city or its independent contractor.
   (C)   Household waste in paper sacks, wrapped in paper, or in cartons shall
not be collected, nor shall any household waste not placed in the appropriate
96 gallon tote.
   (D)   Loose and open trash, and garbage shall not be collected.
   (E)   Heavy trash collection shall occur a minimum of twice each year, once
during the spring of the year and once during the fall, plus at any other time
deemed necessary by the Mayor.
   (F)   Collection will occur for one week after proper advertisement in a
local newspaper at least seven days prior to the designated day.
   (G)   Residents wishing heavy trash collection shall notify the Waterworks
Office by telephone at least 24 hours prior to the designated heavy trash
collection day.
   (H)   For a fee of $20 per heavy trash item, the city shall collect and
dispose of “heavy trash,” as defined herein, within seven days of a request by
a citizen of the city and payment of the afore described fee. The request shall
be made in person at the City Utility Office and the fee shall be payable prior
to any obligation of the city to collect and dispose of the heavy item. Pickup
of the heavy trash item shall be scheduled upon payment of the aforementioned
fee.
   (I)   No person shall place, put or deposit any trash, garbage, waste or
rank elements, either placed in any type of container or bag, or any empty
trash container or bag in any tree row, street or on that person's property or
residence in a manner so that it is visible from a public street, except for
the designated collection day each week or the designated heavy trash
collection day and no earlier than the day before any designated collection
day. Furthermore, all containers or empty trash containers shall be removed
from the tree rows, sidewalks, street or on that person's property or residence
in a manner so that it is visible from a public street by the end of the
person's normally or re-scheduled trash collection day if the trash collection
day falls during the week of a city authorized and approved holiday.
(Ord. 2017-14-1, passed 12-28-17)
§ 53.05 OPTIONAL RECYCLING SERVICE.
   (A)   Option service for collection and disposal of recycles shall be
available to residential and multi-family dwelling units and mobile homes
located and situated inside the corporate limits of the city pursuant to the
following fee schedule:
 
Year Monthly Recycling Collection and Disposal Rate
2018 $2
2019 $2
2020 $2
2021 $2
2022 $2
 
   (B)   For those residential premises and all multi-family dwelling units and
mobile homes located and situated inside the corporate limits of the city who
choose to contract for the collection and disposal of recyclables, such
collection by the city or the city's contractor shall occur once every other
week (bi-weekly).
   (C)   Recyclables to be collected shall be placed in a separate 96 gallon
tote provided by the city or its contractor and shall be picked up separately
from household waste.
(Ord. 2017-14-1, passed 12-28-17)
§ 53.06 EXCLUDED ENTITIES.
   Trash and recycling collection shall not be made at business or commercial
establishments and non-city governmental entities, including but not limited to
county hospitals and schools. Such business and commercial establishments shall
be responsible for making their own arrangements for trash collection.
(Ord. 2017-14-1, passed 12-28-17)
CHAPTER 54: STORM WATER PLAN
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Storm water user fee
   
54.03   Fee establishment procedure
   
54.04   Billing and payment penalties
   
54.05   Adjustment of fees
   
54.06   Private storm water facilities
   
54.07   Delinquent fees and penalties as liens
   
54.08   Storm Water Revenue Fund
   
54.09   Violations; enforcement
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply;
words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural, the
singular; and words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
The word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary. The word MAY is permissive.
Words not defined herein shall be construed to have the meanings given by
common and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster’s
Dictionary.
   APPROVED PLANS. Plans approved by the city according to a permit and plan
review that govern all improvements made within the service area that require a
storm water system or changes or alterations to the existing storm water
system.
   CITY. The City of Jasonville, acting by and through the Council.
   COMMERCIAL PROPERTY. All properties within the service area not encompassed
within the definition of residential property with water or sewer service
intended to measure flow to/from the city’s utility service.
   COUNCIL. The Common Council of the City of Jasonville, Indiana, or any other
successor entity or any duly authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   LOT. The smallest separately segregated parcel, unit, or plot of land having
an identified owner, boundaries, and surface area that is documented for
property tax purposes by the Greene County Assessor.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, institution, or other
entity deemed by the city to be the responsible party for any residential or
commercial property.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any lot or parcel existing in the service area on
which reside one or two dwelling units.
   SERVICE AREA. All property within the corporate boundary of the City of
Jasonville, Greene County, Indiana.
   STORM WATER. Water that originates during precipitation events including
rain, snow, sleet, ice, or hail.
   STORM WATER SYSTEM. All facilities constructed in an easement or right of
way, including structures and natural watercourses under the ownership, and/or
control of the city, used for collecting and conveying storm water to, through,
and from drainage areas to the point of final outlet, including any and all of
the following: inlets, creeks, channels, catch basins, ditches, streams, street
culverts, retention or detention basins and pumping stations, private drainage
systems, or drainage systems that are the responsibility of a homeowners’
association, and excluding therefrom any part of the system of drains and water
courses under the jurisdiction of Greene County.
   STORM WATER SYSTEMS also may include waters that are under the jurisdiction
of various permitting agencies of the State of Indiana, which acts by and
through the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and/or the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management or the United States of America, which
acts by and through the Corps of Engineers.
   STORM WATER USER FEE. A charge imposed on users of the city’s storm water
system.
   SURFACE WATER. Water occurring on the surface of the land.
(Ord. 2020-15A, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 54.02 STORM WATER USER FEE.
   A storm water user fee of $8 per month is imposed on all properties within
the service area, including residential and commercial, and without regard to a
classification as profit, non-profit, tax-exempt, or otherwise, that receives
city sanitary services. This user fee is deemed reasonable and is necessary to
pay for the repair, replacement, planning, improvement, operation, regulation,
and maintenance of the existing and future storm water system for the city.
(Ord. 2020-15A, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 54.03 FEE ESTABLISHMENT PROCEDURE.
   Storm water user fee rates are designed to recover and provide funds to pay
the costs of rendering storm water service to the users of the storm water
system(s), and shall be the basis for assessment of the city’s storm water user
fee. These storm water user rates are established to maintain adequate fund
reserves to provide for reasonably expected variations in the costs of
providing services, as well as variations in the demand for services. These
rates shall be evaluated at least every three years as to sufficiency to
satisfy the needs of the city.
(Ord. 2020-15A, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 54.04 BILLING AND PAYMENT PENALTIES.
   (A)   The user fee set forth in §
54.02 shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the city in the manner
provided by law and ordinance. The rates shall take effect with the January
2021 usage period or as soon thereafter as practicable.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing in no way shall relieve the owner from the liability if payment is
not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which are
occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection
records of the city for the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid
by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall be made at the
office at which said records are kept and during the hours that such office is
open for business.
   (D)   As provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due hereby
are declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates
or charges shall be added monthly to the principal balance. The rates and
charges shall be paid 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
(Ord. 2020-15A, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 54.05 ADJUSTMENT OF FEES.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the city, after being approved by
the Council, shall provide for an appeal procedure whereby a user shall have
the right to appeal a decision of the administrator of the utility system and
the fee structure to the Council and any decision concerning the fee structure
of the Council may be appealed to the circuit court of the county under the
appeal procedures provided for in the Indiana Administrative Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 2020-15A, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 54.06 PRIVATE STORM WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall have no responsibility for the installation,
maintenance or repair of private storm water facilities or private drain
systems.
   (B)   Approved plans for all private storm water facilities required to
secure governmental approvals shall be submitted to the city prior to
commencement of construction of such private facilities. Such private
facilities shall be constructed according to such approved plans, and
connection to the storm water system shall be made only after the city
determines that such construction complied with such plans.
   (C)   No newly-constructed storm water systems or drains shall cross the
property of another private owner unless such private owner has granted an
easement, duly recorded in the office of the County Recorder, for such private
storm water system or drain.
   (D)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the private drain or private drainage system shall be borne by the owner. The
owner shall indemnify the city for any loss or damage directly or indirectly
occasioned by the construction or installation of the private drain, including
backwater damages from the public storm water system.
   (E)   The connection or outlet of a storm water system or private drain into
the public storm water system shall conform to city specifications and
standards for storm drainage works. Any deviation of the prescribed procedure
or material must be approved by a duly authorized agent of the Storm Water
Subdivision before installation.
   (F)   No person shall uncover, make any connection with or open into, use,
alter, or disturb any public storm water sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining authorization from the Utility Department.
   (G)   All excavations, construction, installation of private storm water
systems or drainage facilities shall be protected with barricades and lights to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in accordance
with the specifications and standards for storm drainage works of the city.
   (H)   All private construction and installation of storm water systems shall
include proper restoration and provisions for erosion and sediment control
according to specifications and standards for storm drainage works of the city.
   (I)   No property owner shall change the storm water runoff pattern of the
property of such owner in a way that neighboring properties, including, without
limitation, city properties, are affected adversely. Consideration and
provisions shall be made for storm water systems or drainage to and from
neighboring properties in connection with land alterations.
(Ord. 2020-15A, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 54.07 DELINQUENT FEES AND PENALTIES AS LIENS.
   Delinquent charges for storm water user fee rates, services, applied
penalties, and recording fees shall constitute a lien upon the property and may
be collected in accordance with provisions of I.C. 36-9-23-32 and 36-9-23-35.
(Ord. 2020-15A, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 54.08 STORM WATER REVENUE FUND.
   (A)   All revenues and fees collected for storm water service, including but
not limited to storm water system user fees, penalties assessed by this chapter
or subsequent amendments, or interest earned on any unused funds shall be
deposited in an account entitled “City of Jasonville Storm Water Revenue Fund”
and shall be subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23, as amended. Funds from
this account shall be accounted for as separate from other utility funds and
shall not be comingled with the funds of any other city utility division or
department or the General Fund of the city and shall not be transferred for any
other purpose. To the extent that there are outstanding revenue bonds of the
city issued pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23, as amended, revenues
deposited in the Storm Water Revenue Fund shall be subject to the covenants
contained in the ordinance or ordinances authorizing such outstanding bonds.
   (B)   Disbursements from the Storm Water Revenue Fund shall be authorized by
the Clerk-Treasurer and, as required by law, the Council. Such disbursements
shall be used exclusively for the operation, maintenance, and improvement of
the city’s Storm Water Subdivision, which uses include but are not limited to
the following:
      (1)   Storm water management services, such as public education and
outreach, studies, design, permit review, plan preparation, and development
review;
      (2)   Operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of the storm water
collection, storage, conveyance, and/or treatment infrastructure;
      (3)   Project costs related to constructing major or minor structural
improvements to the city’s storm water system;
      (4)   Administrative costs associated with the management of the Storm
Water Subdivision;
      (5)   Debt service financing of the city’s storm water related capital
improvements;
      (6)   Funding of studies such as water quality, quality monitoring, and
aerial photography, all of which are associated with planning storm water
related infrastructure; and
      (7)   Implementing long range storm water plans developed and approved by
the State Department of Environmental Management for elimination of combined
sewer overflows.
(Ord. 2020-15A, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 54.09 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   Failure to pay a storm water user fee when due shall constitute a violation
of this chapter, and shall be enforced by the city and such persons as the city
may appoint for such purpose, and also shall include the cost of recovery,
including attorney fees, other costs of collection, and recording fees.
(Ord. 2020-15A, passed 12-29-2020)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   RAILROADS
      
76.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
77.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Enforcement of Traffic Regulations
   
70.01   Authority and duties of city’s Police Department
   
70.02   Misdemeanor
   
70.03   Compliance
Traffic-Control Device Regulation
   
70.15   Municipal interest and scope
   
70.16   Traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Definition
   
70.18   Device placement
   
70.19   Device standards
   
70.20   Filing of summons and claim
   
70.21   Default judgement; reporting to state
   
70.22   Deferral program
 
   
70.99   Penalty
ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF CITY’S POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   In addition to its other activities, it shall be the duty of the city’s
Police Department to enforce the provisions of this title and all state vehicle
laws applicable; to make arrests for violations; to investigate traffic
accidents and make reports on standard accident report form; to maintain a
system of filing records of traffic reports, warnings, and arrests; to
cooperate with other officials of the city for improvement of traffic
conditions; and to file an annual report with the Common Council concerning its
activities in regard to traffic enforcement.
(2003 Code, § 10.04.010)
§ 70.02 MISDEMEANOR.
   It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor for any person to do forbidden
acts or fail to perform any act required by the provisions of this title.
(2003 Code, § 10.04.020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer.
(2003 Code, § 10.04.030) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE REGULATION
§ 70.15 MUNICIPAL INTEREST AND SCOPE.
   The traffic-control devices laws and regulations of the state, including
I.C. 9-21-8-41, do not specifically address or limit local traffic regulation
by traffic-control devices and specific needs and interests of municipalities
in regulating compliance with traffic-control devices, and, as such, it is
appropriate that the city pass certain measures providing for such regulation
on non-highways. The provisions of §§
70.20,
70.21, and
70.22 shall provide the procedure for judicially enforcing traffic- control
device regulation and any section of the code inconsistent therewith shall not
apply to traffic- control device violations.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 70.16 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   A person who drives a vehicle or street car may not disobey the
instructions of an official traffic-control device placed in accordance with
this subchapter unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   All traffic shall observe and obey traffic-control devices including
signals, signs, and warnings, and all directions, signs, or warning devices
that may be given or displayed by a law enforcement officer or flagman to
safely control traffic movement at a worksite and promote safety at a worksite.
   (C)   Residential districts have unique needs for the strict enforcement of,
and compliance with, traffic-control devices in order to ensure the safety of
young children and families who may be pedestrians, bicycling, or otherwise
using public ways recreationally or for other frequent and common purpose, and,
as such, persons shall exhibit extraordinary care in such residential
districts.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 70.17 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. Include signs, signals, devices, or markings which:
      (1)   Designate through on all streets and highways of the city and order
stop signs, flashing signals, or yield signs erected at specified entrances
thereto or designate any intersection as a stop intersection or a yield
intersection;
      (2)   Prohibit, restrict, or regulate the operation of vehicles on any
controlled access on all streets and highways of the city or the use of any
controlled access on all streets and highways of the city by any vehicle,
device moved by human power, or pedestrian; or
      (3)   Authorize or restrict parking on all streets and highways of the
city.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 70.18 DEVICE PLACEMENT.
   As defined in §
70.17, all signs, signals, devices, or markings shall be placed in such a
position and sufficiently legible that to be seen by an ordinary observant
person.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 70.19 DEVICE STANDARDS.
   As defined in §
70.17, all signs, signals, devices, or markings shall be of the shapes and
colors, and have the meanings as specified in the state’s Uniform Act
Regulating Traffic on Highways and shall apply to all vehicles, devices moved
by human power, or pedestrians.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 70.20 FILING OF SUMMONS AND CLAIM.
   (A)   Consistent with the state code, the city shall cause a summons and
appropriate citation form to be filed with the Clerk of the Superior Court of
the county as soon after the issuance of the citation as reasonably possible.
   (B)   The police officer shall provide a court date and time at which the
person cited must appear, which appearance may only be dispensed with if the
person:
      (1)   Tenders full payment to the Clerk of the Superior Court of the
county for both the $50 fine and any applicable court costs on or before such
date/time;
      (2)   The person enters into a deferral program with the city by
completing the deferral program agreement and tendering full payment for the
deferral program to the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county; or
      (3)   The person obtains an order continuing the date/time signed by a
judicial officer with requisite authority to grant a continuance of a
proceeding in the Superior Court of the county.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 70.21 DEFAULT JUDGEMENT; REPORTING TO STATE.
   (A)   In the event that the person fails to appear and pay the fine plus
court costs, fails to complete the process of deferral, and fails to obtain a
continuance of the hearing provided on the citation by the city police officer,
default judgment shall be entered, a grace period of 30 days shall follow, and,
if the fines and costs remain unpaid after 30 days, the Violations Bureau Clerk
or Deputy Clerk shall report the judgment to the state’s Bureau of Motor
Vehicles, which shall be authorized to impose a suspension of the person’s
driving privileges.
   (B)   In the event that the person voluntarily pays the fine and court costs
on or before the date/time provided on the citation, then the city and/or the
Violations Bureau Clerk shall report the judgment to the states’s Bureau of
Motor Vehicles and any other applicable agency, and adverse consequences to the
person’s driving privileges, driving record, and insurance premiums could
result.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 70.22 DEFERRAL PROGRAM.
   (A)   The city shall offer a deferral program to each eligible person cited
under this subchapter. The deferral program will provide that the person not
violate any local, state, or federal law or regulation for a period of six
months, among other terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the municipality
and consistent with the law. So long as the person does not violate the
deferral agreement, the cause of action shall be dismissed as soon as
reasonably possible after the expiration of the deferral period.
   (B)   The city shall assess a minimum initial user’s fee of $50.50 and a
monthly user’s fee of $60 ($10/month), all of which is due along with court
costs and other applicable fees. As of the adoption of this subchapter, the
total deferral program fee would be $190. However, court costs and other
applicable fees are subject to change and, as such, any increases in court
costs and fees shall increase the total deferral program fee accordingly.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of this title shall be punished by a
fine of $1 and court costs.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any part of §§
70.15 through
70.22 and is so cited by the city’s Police Department may be assessed a fine of
$50, in addition to any court costs or fees assessed and/or collected by the
County Clerk’s office.
      (2)   Any person who contests the citation at trial, hearing, or other
contested proceeding shall be subject to an additional fee of $250 based upon
increased administrative costs and attorney’s fees, if that person is
determined by a judge, jury, or applicable trier-of-fact to have violated §§
70.15 through
70.22.
(2003 Code, § 10.04.040) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-10-2014)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Traffic Control at Fire Scenes
   
71.01   Requirements while approaching emergency vehicles
   
71.02   Parking at fire scene prohibited
   
71.03   Crossing fire hose prohibited
Speed Regulations
   
71.15   Municipal interests and scope
   
71.16   Speed limits in business, residential, and school districts
   
71.17   Speed limit signs
   
71.18   Filing of summons and claim
   
71.19   Default judgement; reporting to state
   
71.20   Deferral program
 
   
71.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC CONTROL AT FIRE SCENES
§ 71.01 REQUIREMENTS WHILE APPROACHING EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   On the approach of any motor vehicle, apparatus, or other vehicles of the
Fire Department or Police Department sounding a bell or siren, the driver or
operator of any motor vehicle or other vehicle shall drive as close as possible
to the right hand curb of the street or thoroughfare and come to a complete
stop; and shall not follow within 600 feet of such Fire Department and Police
Department motor vehicles, apparatus, or other vehicles after the same has
passed.
(2003 Code, § 8.20.010) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 PARKING AT FIRE SCENE PROHIBITED.
   No motor vehicle or other vehicle, except by order of the Chief of said Fire
or Police Department in charge of a fire at the time, shall approach or park
within 600 feet of any fire.
(2003 Code, § 8.20.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 CROSSING FIRE HOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle or other
vehicle to drive or operate the same across or upon any hose, pipe, or other
apparatus belonging to either of said Departments.
(2003 Code, § 8.20.030) Penalty, see §
71.99
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 71.15 MUNICIPAL INTERESTS AND SCOPE.
   The speed laws and regulations of the state are not sufficient to address
certain local needs for speed regulation, particularly in business,
residential, and school districts within the city. As such, this subchapter is
needed to address such local concerns and to develop procedures to enable
municipal enforcement of local speed regulations. The procedure for enforcing
this section judicially shall be as provided in §§
71.19 and
71.20, and any other sections of the code inconsistent therewith shall not
apply to speed regulation violations.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 71.16 SPEED LIMITS IN BUSINESS, RESIDENTIAL, AND SCHOOL DISTRICTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle along or
upon any street or highway within the limits of the city at a greater speed
than:
   (A)   Twenty-five mph in any business district of the city;
   (B)   Twenty-five mph in any residential district of the city;
   (C)   Twenty mph in the school district of the city which ranges from County
Road 950 Worth to West Shanklin Street; and
   (D)   Fifteen mph in any park or alley within the city unless otherwise
marked.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-10-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 SPEED LIMIT SIGNS.
   Appropriate signs shall be placed upon the approaches to the districts
described in this chapter showing the appropriate speed limit for that
district.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 71.18 FILING OF SUMMONS AND CLAIM.
   (A)   Consistent with the state code, the city shall cause a summons and
appropriate citation form to be filed with the Clerk of the Superior Court of
the county as soon after the issuance of the citation as reasonably possible.
   (B)   The police officer shall provide a court date and time at which the
person cited must appear, unless such person either:
      (1)   Tenders full payment to the Clerk of the Superior Court of the
county for both the $50 fine and any applicable court costs on or before such
date/time;
      (2)   The person enters into a deferral program with the city by
completing the deferral program agreement and tendering full payment for the
deferral program to the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county; or
      (3)   The person obtains an order continuing the date/time signed by a
judicial officer with requisite authority to grant a continuance of a
proceeding in the Superior Court of the county.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 71.19 DEFAULT JUDGEMENT; REPORTING TO STATE.
   (A)   In the event that the person fails to appear and pay the fine plus
court costs, fails to complete the process of deferral, and fails to obtain a
continuance of the hearing provided on the citation by the city police officer,
default judgment shall be entered, a grace period of 30 days shall follow, and,
if the fines and costs remain unpaid after 30 days, the Violations Bureau Clerk
or Deputy Clerk shall report the judgment to the state’s Bureau of Motor
Vehicles, which shall be authorized to impose a suspension of the person’s
driving privileges.
   (B)   In the event that the person voluntarily pays the fine and court costs
on or before the date/time provided on the citation, then the city and/or the
Violations Bureau Clerk shall report the judgment to the state’s Bureau of
Motor Vehicles and any other appropriate agency, and adverse consequences to
the person’s driving privileges, driving record, and insurance premiums could
result.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 71.20 DEFERRAL PROGRAM.
   (A)   The city shall offer a deferral program to each eligible person cited
under this subchapter. The deferral program will provide that the person not
violate any local, state, or federal law or regulation for a period of six
months, among other terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the municipality
and consistent with the law. So long as the person does not violate the
deferral agreement, the cause of action shall be dismissed as soon as
reasonably possible after the expiration of the deferral period.
   (B)   The city shall assess a minimum initial user’s fee of $50.50 and a
monthly user’s fee of $60 ($10/month), all of which is due along with court
costs and other applicable fees. As of the adoption of this subchapter, the
total deferral program fee would be $190. However, court costs and other
applicable fees are subject to change and, as such, any increases in court
costs and fees shall increase the total deferral program fee accordingly.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.03 shall, upon conviction, pay to the city a fine for each offense, in any
sum not loss than $5 nor more than $25.
(2003 Code, § 8.20.040)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any part of this chapter and is so cited
by the city’s Police Department or other law enforcement officer may be
assessed a fine of $50, in addition to any court costs or fees assessed and/or
collected by the County Clerk’s office.
      (2)   Any person who contests the citation at trial, hearing, or other
contested proceeding shall be subject to an additional fee of $250 based upon
increased administrative costs and attorney’s fees, if that person is
determined by a judge, jury, or applicable trier-of-fact to have violated this
chapter.
(2003 Code, § 10.12.040)
(Ord. 24-4, passed 2-18-1924; Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-10-2014)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Definition
   
72.02   Parking enforcement
Unattended Motor Vehicles
   
72.15   Parking procedure
   
72.16   Police authorization
   
72.17   Responsible party designated
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TO PARK or PARKING. The person in charge of an automobile or other motor
vehicle allowing said automobile or other motor vehicle to stand upon the
street for ten minutes or longer.
(2003 Code, § 10.24.010) (Ord. 22-5, passed 4-5-1922)
§ 72.02 PARKING ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The following charges (fines) shall be paid to the General Fund of the
city by violators who park at parking meters past the time paid for by such
violator (overtime parking), to wit: $0.50 if paid within: 24 hours of the time
the ticket is received, after 24 hours the charge (fine) shall be $1. Charges
(fines) not paid by violator within 72 hours may be referred to the court of
proper jurisdiction where upon conviction charges (fines) and costs shall be
assessed.
   (B)   The following fines shall be paid to the General Fund of the city by
those who violate the two-hour parking signs that have been installed by the
city, to wit: $0.50 if fine is paid before vehicle is moved, $1 if fine is paid
after the vehicle is moved. Fines not paid by violator with 72 hours may be
referred to the court of proper jurisdiction where, upon conviction, charges
(fines) and costs shall be assessed.
(2003 Code, § 10.24.030) (Ord. 218. passed 4-1-1968; Ord. 254, passed 4-2-1973)
Penalty, see §
72.99
UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 72.15 PARKING PROCEDURE.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended (in any public place) without first stopping the engine, locking the
ignition, removing the ignition key from the vehicle, effectively setting the
brake thereon and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
(2003 Code, § 10.32.010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 POLICE AUTHORIZATION.
   Whenever any police officer shall find a motor vehicle standing unattended
with the ignition key in the vehicle, in violation of this chapter, such police
officer is authorized to remove such key from such vehicle, lock the same, and
to deliver such key to the police officer in charge of the city’s police
station.
(2003 Code, § 10.32.020)
§ 72.17 RESPONSIBLE PARTY DESIGNATED.
   The registered owner of a vehicle found in violation of this chapter shall
be held prima facie responsible for any such violation and have the meanings as
specified in the state’s Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, and shall
apply to all drivers of vehicles and pedestrians.
(2003 Code, § 10.32.030) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. 199, passed 4-3-1967)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law or §
72.02, every person convicted of a violation of §
72.02 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1 nor more than $25 and
court costs for each violation.
(Ord. 48, passed 11-19-1934)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Implementation
   
73.03   Operation of golf carts in the city
   
73.04   Permits for golf carts
   
73.05   Operation of off-road vehicles in the city
   
73.06   Registration of off-road vehicles
   
73.07   Unattended golf carts and off-road vehicles
   
73.08   Prohibited use on sidewalks and other areas
   
73.09   Operational times and procedure
   
73.10   Exceptions
   
73.11   Enforcement
   
73.12   Applicability and effective date
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAYLIGHT HOURS. Include:
      (1)   From May 1 through September 30 between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to
9:00 p.m. local time; and
      (2)   From October 1 through April 30 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to
5:00 p.m. local time.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course (See I.C. 9-13-2-69.7).
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. Off-road vehicle as said term is used in I.C. 14-16-1 et
seq. It also means utility terrain vehicle (UTV), side-by-side vehicle (SxS),
recreational off-highway vehicle (ROV), and multi-use vehicle (MUV).
Collectively, the afore described Off-Road Vehicles shall be referred to
hereinafter as “ORVs.”
   PERMIT. A document issued by the city to signify that a golf cart has been
inspected and at the time of inspection met the requirements of this subchapter
and applicable law.
   RIDING MOWER. Any self-propelled lawn tractor or garden tractor, including
zero turn mowers, designed primarily for the function of mowing/cutting grass,
yard maintenance, gardening or other residential, purpose.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part of the way is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel. The term includes an alley in a city. The
terms STREET and HIGHWAY are limited to those under the jurisdiction of the
City of Jasonville (the “City”) (see I.C. 9-13-2-175).
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 73.02 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3 and I.C. 14-16-1, respectively, this
subchapter is established to regulate the use of golf carts, riding mowers and
ORVs on roads, highways and alleys under the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3, the city will erect signage consistent with
applicable law to give notice of golf cart usage on the highway(s) under the
jurisdiction of the city. Until this section is complied with, no permit shall
be issued.
   (C)   I.C. 14-16-1, which regulates the use, operation, registration and
permitting of ORVs under Indiana state law, hereby is incorporated by reference
and shall be fully applicable to all ORVs owned and operated within the city.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 73.03 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS IN THE CITY.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart or riding mower on any highway or
street that does not have a valid driver license, see I.C. 9-24-1-7.
   (B)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any highway or street without
proof of valid insurance in his or her possession.
   (C)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any highway or street in excess
of the posted speed limits or 25 mph, whichever is the lesser.
   (D)   No person shall operate a golf cart or riding mower on any highway or
street that does not either display a slow-moving] vehicle sign pursuant to
I.C. 9-21-9-2, which states in relevant part:
      (1)   The vehicle shall display a triangular slow moving vehicle emblem
mounted as near as is practicable to the center of mass and at an approximate
height of not less than three and not more than five feet from level ground or
pavement surface.
      (2)   (a)   The emblem shall be mounted so as to be entirely visible from
the rear, day or night; and
         (b)   Display a red or amber flashing lamp at all times. The red or
amber light's specification is pursuant to I.C. 9-21-9-4, which states in
relevant part: a red or an amber flashing lamp mounted at a height as low as
practicable that is visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the
rear.
   (E)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any highway or street that does
not have lighted headlights and taillights at all times, day or night, and said
light must conform to the requirement of this subchapter.
      (1)   Headlights shall be of white or clear light and must be capable of
illuminating the road ahead during hours off darkness and be observed at a
distance of 500 feet. Headlights must be properly adjusted as to not impair the
operation of other vehicles on the highway or street.
      (2)   Taillights shall be red in color and be observable to a distance of
500 feet at night.
   (F)   A passenger in a golf cart must be at least ten years of age.
   (G)   An operator or a passenger must remain seated at all times that a golf
cart is in motion.
   (H)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any highway or street that is
not equipped with rear view mirror.
   (I)   No golf chart shall have more than four occupants. No more than two
occupants shall sit in the front seat of the golf cart and no more than two
occupants shall sit in the rear seat of the golf cart if it is so outfitted.
   (J)   Any person operating a golf cart or riding mower that is involved in a
collision or crash or incident that causes damage to the golf cart will be
responsible for cleaning and containing any debris that results.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 PERMITS FOR GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   A golf cart must have a permit allowing it to be operated upon streets
and highways issued by the city for the current calendar year. Failure to have
a permit shall result in a penalty as set out in §
73.99(B)(4).
   (B)   A permit shall be valid for a period of one year,
   (C)   A permit shall be plainly visible on the front cowling as to be
plainly seen.
   (D)   The permit shall be valid from April 1 through March 31 of each
consecutive year.
   (E)   The permit fee shall be $50.
   (F)   Inspection requirements.
      (1)   The golf cart shall have; proof of ownership and insurance,
pursuant to division (H) below, present at time of inspection.
      (2)   The application form for that purpose must be completed and signed
by the owner.
      (3)   The proper fee must be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer prior to
issuance of the permit.
      (4)   The vehicle must meet all inspection requirements prior to any
permit being issued.
      (5)   The inspection requirements can be obtained from the Mayor's
Office.
   (G)   The application fee is non-refundable.
   (H)   Insurance specification: the coverage for the golf cart at a minimum
will be as follows:
      (1)   Twenty-five thousand dollars per person, for bodily injury you
cause;
      (2)   Fifty thousand dollars per accident, for bodily injury; and
      (3)   Ten thousand dollars per accident, for damage to another's
property.
   (I)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall inspect golf carts
during the normal business hours 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday.
   (J)   The permit will be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer's Office only after
it is confirmed that all requirements have been met for the permit to be
issued.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 73.05 OPERATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES IN THE CITY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is lawful to operate
an ORV upon City streets and alleys. ORVs may not be operated on sidewalks or
on Indiana State Highways 48 and 59, except to cross said state highways at
right angles for the purpose of getting from one permitted area to another when
the operation can be done in safety.
   (B)   Any person operating an ORV within the city must be at least 18 years
of age.
   (C)   Persons operating ORVs must comply with all state laws and city
regulations including, but not limited to, the operating regulations set forth
in I.C. 14-16-1 et seq. as existing or hereafter amended.
   (D)   Any ORV being operated shall be equipped with a lighted headlight and
a lighted taillight and operational brake lights, which headlights and
taillights shall remain on at all times of operation.
   (E)   All ORVs that cross any city streets or highways will do so at a 90-
degree angle to the center of the street or highway being crossed. All ORVs
will yield to all other traffic while crossing town streets, roads, highways,
or non-highway roads.
   (F)   No ORVs shall be operated in such a manner such as to harass pets,
animals, game, wildlife, or people.
   (G)   The number of occupants of an ORV shall be limited to the number of
persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on an ORV. The
operator and all occupants; shall be seated on the ORV and no part of the body
of the operator or occupants shall extend outside the perimeter of the ORV
while the ORV is being operated. If an ORV has safety belts or harnesses
installed, such safety devices shall be used at all times when the ORV is being
operated on a city street, highway, or alley.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 73.06 REGISTRATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each person who operates an ORV on a permitted public way shall have
in effect at all times at least the minimum amount of liability insurance
coverage for the ORV as is required by state law for the operation of an
automobile. Written proof of financial responsibility must be available either
on the ORV or carried by the operator at all times of operation.
   (B)   Each ORV operated on a public way shall be registered pursuant to I.C.
14-16-1-9 and subject to each provision contained in I.C. 14-16-1 et seq.
concerning said registration and associated display of decals.
   (C)   A decal indicating the vehicle's registration number and the year in
which the registration will expire must be attached and displayed from the rear
of the ORV and be visible from no less than 50 feet.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 73.07 UNATTENDED GOLF CARTS AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   No person shall leave or allow any golf cart, riding mower or ORV owned or
operated by himself or herself to be remain unattended on any highway or street
while the motor is running or the stalling key is in the ignition.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 PROHIBITED USE ON SIDEWALKS AND OTHER AREAS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart, riding mower or ORV upon any
sidewalk, pedestrian way, or upon the area between the sidewalk and the curb
line of any street in the city, except:
      (1)   For the purpose of mowing grass between the sidewalk and the curb
line; or
      (2)   As specifically authorized for the purpose of legally crossing the
street to obtain immediate access to an area where the golf cart is authorized
to operate.
   (B)   No person may operate a golf cart, riding mower or ORV for any reason
on the following streets:
      (1)   Any street where operation is prohibited by a posted sign;
      (2)   State Road 48 and 59 on their entire length;
      (3)   Any of the above streets, except for State Road 48 and 59, may be
driven across from one side to the other at the intersections; and
      (4)   No person may operate a golf cart, riding mower or ORV in the
following areas, unless authorization is first obtained from the Common Council
or another authorized representative of the city:
         (a)   Any property owned or leased by the city; and
         (b)   Anywhere in the city of the grass skirt area between the street
and sidewalk, except as necessary to mow grass growing between the street and
the sidewalk.
   (C)   No person shall fail to obey any sign, marker, or speed limit or other
control device erected in accordance with this or any other applicable law.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 OPERATIONAL TIMES AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Golf carts, riding mowers and ORVs shall be operated on the extreme
right side of the roadway and travel with the flow of baffle.
   (B)   ORVs shall be operated in a single file with headlights and taillights
in operation at all time, day or night.
   (C)   If a trailer is towed behind, the trailer must conform to all lighting
requirements for ORVs.
   (D)   Golf cart, riding mower and ORV operators shall yield the right-of-way
to all other vehicular traffic and pedestrians.
   (E)   Golf carts, riding mowers land ORVs violating any of the above
conditions will be subject to the penalties outlined herein.
   (F)   Golf carts and ORVs operated on any portion of any roadway or shoulder
of a highway pursuant to this section shall observe the posted speed limit for
that roadway.
   (G)   Golf carts, riding mower, and ORVs will only be allowed to be operated
on highways and streets during daylight hours.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No part of this subchapter shall be construed as placing any
restrictions on the use of or operation of electric personal assistive mobility
devices.
   (B)   No part of this subchapter shall be construed as placing any
restriction on the use of or operation of golf carts, riding mowers or ORVs by
law enforcement agencies, fire departments, municipalities, or state agencies.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 73.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   Unless otherwise prohibited by state law, all law enforcement officers
haying jurisdiction within the municipal bounds of Jasonville, Indiana shall
have authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 73.12 APPLICABILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply only to the incorporated areas of Jasonville,
Indiana.
   (B)   This chapter shall become in full force and effect from and after
adoption by the Common Council and its publication in accordance with I.C. 5-3-
1.
   (C)   Any violations of state law occurring prior to the effective date of
this chapter shall not be exempted from enforcement.
   (D)   Each provision, section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase of
this chapter is declared to be independent of all other provisions, sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases, and the finding of any section,
subsection, sentence, clause or phrase to be unconstitutional, void or
ineffective for any reason shall not affect the remaining provisions, sections,
sentences, clauses and phrases land parts thereof.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who operates a golf cart, riding mower or ORV in violation of
this chapter shall be fined, as follows:
      (1)   First offense within a two year period: $50.
      (2)   Second offense within a two year period: $75.
      (3)   Third offense within a two year period: $150.
      (4)   The city may collect jail reasonable attorney fees and court costs
incurred in the enforcement of this chapter or the collection of fines levied
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   All fines shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of Jasonville, Indiana,
at 304 West Main Street, Jasonville, Indiana 47438. failure to pay a fine
within 30 calendar days shall result in the suspension of the individual's
right to operate a golf cart or ORV within the city. An individual who operates
a golf cart or ORV during such a period of suspension shall be fined $150 and
his or her golf cart or ORV shall be impounded by the city at the cost of the
violator.
   (C)   The violations shall be cite on either form promulgated by the city or
on standard traffic ticket promulgated by the state.
   (D)   This section does not preclude or preempt any other penalties or fines
that may be imposed by applicable law.
   (E)   A golf cart, riding mower or ORV shall be impounded if a person
violates any provision of §§
73.01 through
73.12 or any other applicable law more than four times in a two-year period.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-8-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 7-8-2019)
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrian rights
   
74.02   Crosswalks
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIAN RIGHTS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals, but at other places
their rights and duties shall be as follows:
   (A)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
necessary for a pedestrian crossing the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the other half
of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave the
curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle, which
is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield;
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at an
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the driver of any other vehicle
shall not overtake from the rear and pass such stopped vehicle; or
   (C)   Drivers of all vehicles shall use due care to avoid striking
pedestrians upon any street or roadway and shall give warning to any child,
confused, or incapacitated person on any roadway.
(2003 Code, § 10.20.010) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 74.02 CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall cause traffic lanes and crosswalks to be placed at
strategic points of ingress and egress to all school properties and all street
intersections.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons in the city to cross
any streets except at points so designated by crosswalks, and if a crossing
guard is present at the intersection, shall follow the orders of said person.
(2003 Code, § 10.20.020) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined any sum not less than $1 nor more than $25 and court costs
for each violation.
(2003 Code, § 10.20.030) (Ord. 48, passed 11-19-1934)
CHAPTER 75: RAILROADS
Section
   
75.01   Duties
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be the duty of the Chicago, Milwaukee, and St. Paul
Railroad Company, or any other railroad company which may now or hereafter run
or operate its railroad through said city, to keep and maintain an electric
light at every point where the track or tracks of said railroad company upon or
over which it runs any trains, engines, or cars during the nighttime, crosses
or intersects at grade any public street within the limits of said city; such
electric light shall be of 100 candle-power or more to light the crossings of
such railroad where such lights are placed and maintained in such a manner as
to enable citizens and other persons traveling or passing over such crossings
to see the track and protect themselves from the danger of running trains on
such railroad. Provided, such lights shall not be required to exceed in power
those in general use for lighting the streets of said city.
   (B)   All such lights shall be lighted each night during the same hours that
the lights used for the lighting of said city shall be lighted or burning, but
it shall not be necessary for said railroad company or companies to cause said
lights to be lighted during any such hours as the regular street lights of said
city are not lighted.
(2003 Code, § 11.04.010) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any railroad company or companies operating a railroad within said
city who shall fail to keep and maintain such lights as hereinbefore provided
or who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined and forfeit to said city the sum of $10 for each
and every offense.
   (B)   Each night or part of a night that any such railroad company shall
fail to provide such lights shall constitute a separate offense under the
provisions of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 11.04.020) (Ord. 1922-10, passed 7-17-1922)
CHAPTER 76: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop signs
      
II.   Truck regulations
      
III.   Vehicle regulations
SCHEDULE I. STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   Stop signs shall be placed at the following railroad crossing
locations:
         (1)   East Shanklin Street;
         (2)   Locust Street;
         (3)   Sycamore Street;
         (4)   North Meridian Street;
         (5)   North Lawton Street;
         (6)   North Park Avenue; and
         (7)   Walnut Street.
(2003 Code, § 12.16.010)
      (2)   Violation of division (A)(1) above will be considered an
infraction.
(2003 Code, § 12.16.020)
   (B)   Any person operating or driving an automobile or other motor vehicle
or any other vehicle upon the streets of the city shall come to a complete stop
at the intersection of the following streets, before continuing into or across
Main Street in said city, to wit:
      (1)   At the intersection of Meridian and Main Street;
      (2)   At the intersection of Lawton and Main Street;
      (3)   At the intersection of Washington and Main Street;
      (4)   At the intersection of Park Avenue and Main Street; and
      (5)   At the intersection of South East Washington and Main Street.
(2003 Code, § 10.16.020)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a four-way stop at the intersection of Sycamore
Street and Walker Street for the purpose of eliminating possible traffic
hazards.
(2003 Code, § 10.16.022)
      (2)   There shall be a four-way stop at the intersection of South Lawton
Street and Cook Street for the purpose of eliminating possible traffic hazards.
(Ord. 26-9, passed 6-23-1926; Res. 1998-6, passed 6-8-1998; Ord. 2001-7, passed
5-11-2001; Res. 2010-2, passed 2-8-2010)
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
unload any truck, tank, tank car, or other vehicle in the city limits
containing gasoline, fuel, oil, or any other combustible petroleum products,
which said vehicle shall have a tank capacity of or over 1,500 gallons, save
and except that trucks or vehicles of larger tank capacity may deliver to such
points, places, and locations in the city as are specifically designed for the
wholesale redistribution of said products and which are properly located to
safely separate their fire hazard from the city generally, and which are
properly provided with protective devises and are approved by the State Fire
Marshal.
(2003 Code, § 8.24.010)
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of
division (A)(1) above shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not less than
$10 nor more than $500 for each and every violation.
(2003 Code, § 8.24.020)
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful to drive any truck of a gross weight in excess of
10,000 pounds on any street designated by ordinance and posted with such
restrictions, except for the purpose of making a delivery, and then only for
one block.
      (2)   All truck traffic be barred from driving on, along, and over South
Washington Street from Main Street to Shanklin Street and Park Avenue from
Shanklin Street to the city boundary.
      (3)   It is unlawful to drive any vehicle of a gross weight in excess of
10,000 pounds on any alley in the city limits, except for the following alleys
or section(s) of alleys:
         (a)   The first east-and-west alley south of Main Street that runs
east and west between South Washington Street and South East Washington Street.
         (b)   The first east-and-west alley north of Main Street that runs
east and west between North Park Street and the railroad tracks that cross Main
Street.
         (c)   The north-and-south alley that lies west of South Lawton Street
and east of South Washington Street and runs from West Main Street to Cook
Street.
         (d)   The north-and-south alley that lies west of North Meridian
Street and east of North Lawton Street and runs between West Main Street and
West Ohio Street.
      (4)   The weight limit specified in division (B)(3) above shall not
apply, however, to the following:
         (a)   Utility vehicles used by water, gas, sewage, or electrical
utilities;
         (b)   Vehicles used primarily for tree trimming services;
         (c)   Moving vans;
         (d)   Private passenger vehicles; and
         (e)   Any other exceptions as may be authorized by the Mayor or Common
Council.
(2003 Code, § 10.28.010)
      (5)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law or division (B)
above, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of division (B)
above shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500.
(2003 Code, § 10.28.020)
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 68, passed 1-6-1941; Ord. 77-1, passed 5-2-1977; Ord.
68, passed 4-9-1990)
SCHEDULE III. VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Vehicles moving east or west in Main Street shall have the right-of-
way over vehicles moving north or south in streets intersecting with Main
Street; and in all other streets, vehicles moving north or south in north-south
streets shall have the right-of-way.
(2003 Code, § 10.16.010)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons operating or driving an
automobile or other motor vehicle or any other vehicle upon the streets of the
city to make a complete or a full turn at any of the following street
intersections, to wit:
      (1)   At the intersection of Meridian and Main Street;
      (2)   At the intersection of Lawton and Main Street;
      (3)   At the intersection of Washington and Main Street;
      (4)   At the intersection of Park Avenue and Main Street; and
      (5)   At the intersection of South East Washington and Main Street.
(2003 Code, § 10.16.030)
   (C)   Any person or persons found guilty of violating any of the provisions
of divisions (A) or (B) above shall, upon conviction, be fined any sum not less
than $1 nor more than $25 and court costs for each such violation.
(2003 Code, § 10.16.040)
(Ord. 22-5, passed 4-5-1922; Ord. 26-9, passed 6-23-1926)
CHAPTER 77: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking restrictions
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This schedule shall regulate the parking of vehicles on the streets
and roadways in the city.
      (1)   All vehicles must be parked parallel with the curb or edge of the
roadway and within 12 inches thereof, unless otherwise provided by this
schedule, and no person shall park any vehicle otherwise in accordance with
this schedule.
      (2)   When proper signs are in place, no person shall park a vehicle at
any time upon any of the following described streets or parts of streets:
         (a)   On either side of South Meridian Street between the intersection
of Cook Street and South Meridian Street and Shanklin Street and South Meridian
Street.
         (b)   No parking on the west side of Park Street from Main Street to
Liberty Street. No parking on the east side of Lawton Street or west side of
Washington Street.
         (c)   Divisions (2)(a) and (2)(b) above shall be in effect only during
the hours of 7:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m.
         (d)   It shall be unlawful to park in Main Street at any point between
the Chicago, Milwaukee, and St. Paul Railroad (or its successor’s current name)
and Horace Street, except said automobile or other motor vehicle be parked
parallel with and close up to the curb, and on the right side of the street
facing the direction in which said vehicle is headed and not nearer than five
feet to any automobile or other vehicle already parked or stopped at the curb,
and not nearer than 25 feet to any corner at a street intersection.
         (e)   It shall be unlawful to park in Meridian Street at any point
between the first street intersection north and south respectively of Main
Street.
         (f)   It shall be unlawful to park at any point in Lawton Street
between the first street intersection north and south respectively of Main
Street, except same be parked on the east side of said Lawton Street between
Main Street and the first street north of Main Street, and in such position, as
is provided in division (A)(2)(e) above.
         (g)   There shall be no parking within a distance of 25 feet of any
roadway or street intersection, or within 15 feet of any fire hydrant.
         (h)   There shall be no parking at any time on the north side of State
Road 48 (Main Street) from 210 feet east of Railroad Street (east end of
existing no parking zone) to State Road 59.
(2003 Code, § 10.24.020)
   (B)   (1)   The following charges (fines) shall be paid to the General Fund
of the city by violators who park at parking meters past the time paid for by
such violator (overtime parking), to wit: $0.50 if paid within: 24 hours of the
time the ticket is received, after 24 hours the charge (fine) shall be $1.
Charges (fines) not paid by violator within 72 hours may be referred to the
court of proper jurisdiction where, upon conviction, charges (fines) and costs
shall be assessed.
      (2)   The following fines shall be paid to the General Fund of the city
by those who violate the two-hour parking signs that have been installed by the
city, to wit: $0.50 if fine is paid before vehicle is moved, $1 if fine is paid
after the vehicle is moved. Fines not paid by violator with 72 hours may be
referred to the court of proper jurisdiction where, upon conviction, charges
(fines) and costs shall be assessed.
      (3)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law or this
schedule, every person convicted of a violation of this schedule shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $1 nor more than $25 and court costs for
each violation.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 22-5, passed 4-5-1922; Ord. 26-15, passed - -1926; Ord.
48, passed 11-19-1934; Ord. 218, passed 4-1-1968; Ord. 254, passed 4-2-1973)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES AND JUNK CARS
      
94.   STREETS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Police
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   New policy
   
90.04   Proper care/housing
   
90.05   Impoundment
   
90.06   Impoundment fees
   
90.07   Vaccinations
   
90.08   Rabies, suspected rabies, dog bites
   
90.09   Dangerous animals
   
90.10   Killing of animals
§ 90.01 POLICY.
   Domesticated animals are prohibited from being at large in the City of
Jasonville.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   A dog shall be intended to mean male or female.
   (B)   A cat shall be intend to mean any feline male or female.
   (C)   Domesticated animal shall be intended as dogs or cats.
   (D)   Owner shall be the intended to mean any person keeping, caring for,
maintaining, or allowing the animal to remain on their property.
   (E)   Owners shall follow any law imposed as law by the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 90.03 NEW POLICY.
   (A)   Running at large: no person owning or having charge, care, custody, or
control of any domesticated animal shall cause, permit, or allow a domesticated
animal to intentionally run at large upon any street, sidewalk, alley, or
public place within the City of Jasonville.
   (B)   No person owning or having charge, care, custody, or control of any
domesticated animal shall cause, permit, or allow a domesticated animal to
intentionally run at large upon the private property of another without
permission of the property owner.
   (C)   Domesticated animals shall be confined on the owners property solely
rather this be by chain, cable, invisible fence, fencing, leash/lead, or freely
on said owners property and not allowing intentional roaming from the owners
property.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 90.04 PROPER CARE/HOUSING.
   (A)   Each domesticated animal shall have proper housing year around in
accordance to the weather conditions, must be properly maintained with food and
water.
   (B)   Kennels, pens, or place where animal is shall be kept suitable and
clean and shall not become unreasonably unclean or unfit, and free of
unreasonable foul odor.
   (C)   All domesticated animals shall have vaccinations in accordance to the
laws of the State of Indiana.
   (D)   Any person found to not have proper or adequate housing, food, water,
or acceptable living conditions will be fined a fee of $50 and will be given a
time frame of three days to correct the existing condition. Fees shall be paid
to the City of Jasonville Clerk Treasurer within 14 days of the fine. Any
person not paying the fine within the 14 days will be turned over to the
collection agent for the City of Jasonville.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 90.05 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Domesticated animals found to be intentionally running at large shall
be taken by an agent of the City of Jasonville and impounded until such time as
claimed by the owner.
   (B)   Any domesticated animal found to be intentionally running at large and
so impounded under the provisions of this chapter will have seven days to
reclaim the animal. So forth on the eighth day if unclaimed the animal may be
placed in the custody of a suitable person that will provide a good home,
proper shelter, and will abide by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Immediately upon impoundment of an animal the agent of the City of
Jasonville will make every possible effort possible to notify the owner of the
animal so the owner can reclaim the animal.
   (D)   The City of Jasonville will promote a registry of domesticated animals
to include owners name, address, telephone number, name of the animal, breed,
and a picture of the animal. Volunteering owners shall pay $5 per year and will
keep the information updated to the registry agent.
   (E)   If an animal is impounded and the owners did not participate in the
registry program, at that time will be charged an additional $5 fee and be
placed in the registry program.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 90.06 IMPOUNDMENT FEES.
   Any animal impounded under the terms of this ordinance may reclaim. Their
animal from the agent of the City of Jasonville. Fees of impoundment will be
paid upon claiming their animal.
   (A)   First time offense will be $25 with an additional $10 to the agent of
the city.
   (B)   Second time offense will be $35 with an additional $10 to the agent of
the city.
   (C)   Third time offense will be $45 with an additional $10 to the agent of
the city.
   (D)   All offenses after will continue to increase $10 in reclaim fee and
will require $10 to the agent of the city with each reclaim.
   (E)   Special note in reference to surrendering an animal. Any animal that
is impounded three times shall be considered to be intentionally allowing the
animal to run at large, unless owner can show proof the animal broke free and
incident was not intentional.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 90.07 VACCINATIONS.
   Owners of domesticated animals will follow the guidelines of the State of
Indiana for the breed of their animal.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 90.08 RABIES, SUSPECTED RABIES, DOG BITES.
   (A)   Any domesticated animal believed to have rabies or have been bitten by
an animal believed to have rabies, or has bitten a human will be quarantined by
the owner for 15 days.
   (B)   If said owner does not have the ability to quarantine the animal then
the agent of the city will provide the quarantine of the animal for a period of
15 days.
   (C)   The owner of the animal quarantined will pay the fee of $50 to the
agent of the city for the housing during the 15 days.
   (D)   Rabies vaccination tags or vaccination records must be produced within
24 hours of the time of incident.
   (E)   Abandoning of domesticated animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to abandon a domesticated
animal in the City of Jasonville. Any person(s) found to abandon an animal will
be subject to a fine of $100 and will be subject to criminal charges for
neglect of an animal.
      (2)   Fees for abandonment will be paid to the City Clerk Treasurer
within 14 days of the violation. Those failing to pay the fees within the
alloted time frame will be turned over to the collection agent for the City of
Jasonville.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 90.09 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   A dangerous animal is an animal that has previously attacked or bitten
a person or animal, who is known by the owner to be potentially dangerous.
   (B)   An animal shall not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury, or
damages was sustained by a person or animal who, at the time was unlawfully on
the property, or, while lawfully on the property was tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the animal, it's owner, or another person rightfully on the
property.
   (C)   An animal will not be declared dangerous if it is defending or
protecting a human with the vicinity of the animal from an unjustified attack
or assault.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having possession of any
dangerous animal to allow running at large, or recklessly, or negligently allow
a dangerous animal to escape and become at large.
   (E)   Any person who violates the subsection of dangerous animals shall be
assessed a fine of $100 per violation and the fee shall be paid to the City of
Jasonville Clerk Treasurer within 14 days. Any person failing to pay said fee
within the time frame will be turned over to the collection agent for the City
of Jasonville.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 90.10 KILLING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Killing of animal by the Jasonville Police Department will be a last
effort of protecting another animal or person that is being attacked by an
animal within the City of Jasonville.
   (B)   Any jasonville police agent that is placed in a situation will use his
or her judgement if an animal must immediately be killed in the protection of
another other person or animal.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-2016)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Garbage
   
91.02   Open burning
   
91.03   Loud vehicles
   
91.04   Fireworks
Weeds and Neglected Properties
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Duties and violations
   
91.17   Notice and service
   
91.18   Duty of police
Weeds and Other Rank Vegetation
   
91.30   Definitions
   
91.31   Prohibition of rank vegetation and weeds
   
91.32   Prohibition of yard waste on city property
   
91.33   Enforcement authority charged with enforcement
   
91.34   Notice of violation
   
91.35   Abatement of violation
   
91.36   Continuous abatement notice
   
91.37   Recovery of costs of abatement and administration
   
91.38   Procedures for appeal
Coal Mining
   
91.50   Declaration of public nuisance
   
91.51   Strip mining method prohibited
   
91.52   Notice of abatement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to own, maintain,
or control any real estate within the corporate limits of the city upon which
there has been permitted to accumulate rubbish, garbage, food stuffs, filth,
debris, or other matter deleterious to health or constitute a fire hazard, and
from rodent infestation.
(2003 Code, § 8.08.010) (Ord. 184, passed 8-11-1964) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to burn
anything except waste paper or wood products within the fire limits of the
city. Burning must be in a vented enclosed container with the vent to top
covered with hardware screen consisting of squares no more than one-fourth
inch. Burning is permitted only between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
Exceptions to these restrictions require special permission by the Fire Chief,
and may further require that the Fire Department stand by and assist. It will
be unlawful to burn anything emitting noxious odors and fumes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to conduct burning during unfavorable
meteorological conditions such as high winds, temperature inversions, or air
stagnation. If at any time the fire creates an air pollution problem, threat to
public health, nuisance, or fire hazard, the burning shall be extinguished.
(2003 Code, § 8.08.010) (Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-10-2015) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 LOUD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Vehicles with radios or other stereo entertainment equipment played
with unnecessary volume are hereby declared to be disruptive to the peace of
the community; disruptive to meetings and gatherings; disturbing to the
citizens; a safety hazard that renders the driver of the vehicle or other
nearby vehicles unable to hear emergency vehicle sirens or other warning
devices; startling to pedestrians or other drivers; and causes unnecessary
vibrations to the windows of houses and businesses, disturbing the persons
inside the building.
(2003 Code, § 9.16.010)
   (B)   If the operator or owner of a vehicle has been issued two written
warnings from the city police due to unnecessary noises or annoying vibrations,
the third notification will consider the operator or owner of the vehicle to be
willfully disturbing or allowing disturbance of the peace, disorderly conduct,
and creating a public nuisance.
(2003 Code, § 9.16.020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to discharge or
explode or cause to be discharged or exploded on any of the streets, alleys, or
any other public place within the corporate limits of the city, any Chinese
firecrackers, bombs, or other fireworks of any description containing
explosives.
(2003 Code, § 8.16.010) Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS AND NEGLECTED PROPERTIES
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NEGLECTED PROPERTY. Real property which is not kept nor maintained in a
reasonably clean and orderly manner and to a standard conforming to other
premises in that neighborhood.
   WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION. Any growing weed in excess of 12 inches in
height or any plant which exhales offensive or noxious odors or from which
there may be carried any injurious, offensive, or annoying pollen, dust, down,
particles, or seeds.
(2003 Code, § 8.04.010)
§ 91.16 DUTIES AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided, a person shall be in violation of
this subchapter if such person allows or permits any weeds or other rank
vegetation to be or to remain upon any property owned, leased, occupied, or
controlled by such person. Provided, however, that a person who owns, leases,
occupies, or controls property on which weeds or other rank vegetation is
located shall not be in violation of this subchapter if that person shall cause
the weeds or other rank vegetation to be removed at least three times each
calendar year as follows.
 
Once between June 1 and June 15;
Once between July 1 and July 15; and
Once between August 1 and August 15.
 
      (2)   Provided further that the destruction of weeds and other rank
vegetation by the use of a chemical consisting of 2-4D weed killer or other
equally efficient chemical weed killer upon such weeds and other rank
vegetation at the times herein prescribed shall be deemed a full compliance
with this section.
   (B)   A person shall be in violation of this subchapter if such person owns
neglected property or abandons, neglects, or disregards the condition or
appearance of any real property so as to permit the same to become unclean with
an accumulation of litter or waste thereon, including waste paper, rags, cans,
bottles, boxes, lumber metal, garbage, disused or inoperable motor vehicles,
trailers, machinery, or furniture, unless specifically authorized under
existing laws and regulations.
(2003 Code, § 8.04.020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 NOTICE AND SERVICE.
   (A)   When any person is in violation of this subchapter, notice of such
violation may be served on such person by United States registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested, by any resident of the city. The person so
notified shall have seven days after the date of such notice to comply with
this subchapter. If, upon the expiration of the said seven-day period, the
person given notice has not complied with this subchapter, it shall be the duty
of the Chief of Police to order the Street Commissioner to cause the weeds and
other rank vegetation to be cut or removed or cause the neglected property to
be maintained in accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to comply with any
order of the Chief of Police issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   The Street Commissioner shall keep an accurate account of the
expenses incurred hereunder, which shall be paid from the City Treasury upon
the voucher of the Street Commissioner, verified under oath.
      (2)   The cost of such cutting, removal, or maintenance shall be a lien
on such property from the time the same is paid on such voucher, and shall be
placed upon the tax duplicate and collected as taxes are collected and turned
into the City Treasury.
(2003 Code, § 8.04.030)
§ 91.18 DUTY OF POLICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, if he or she finds any
violation of this subchapter, to immediately notify by United States registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, any person who is the owner,
tenant, lessee, or otherwise in control of such premises to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter within seven days from the date the notice is
received.
   (B)   If the person given notice fails to comply as set forth in §
91.17, the Chief of Police shall arrest such person notified or file affidavit.
(2003 Code, § 8.04.040)
WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION
§ 91.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRASS. Any of various green plants having simple leaves and generally
cultivated for lawns, but excluding agricultural crops such as hay and pasture.
   OWNER. The record owner of the affected real property as reflected in the
office of the County Auditor.
   RANK VEGETATION. The uncontrolled growth of any grass, weed or other plant
beyond nine inches in height (excluding trees, flowers, ornamental shrubs and
plants, and agricultural crops such as hay and pasture), as well as the
following conditions:
      (1)   Noxious weeds and detrimental plants as defined by I.C. Title 15,
grass over nine inches in height and any other plant, weed or rank vegetation
over nine inches in height, which are not mowed at least once a month in April
and October, and at least twice a month during the months of May through
September;
      (2)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery or other vegetation with less
than 14 feet clearance over, along and across streets or alley ways, or less
than eight feet clearance over, along or across the sidewalks;
      (3)   Trees, limbs, branches,: shrubbery or other vegetation that
prevents adequate visibility at street and alley intersections or which blocks
the view of any street or traffic sign, signal or device;
      (4)   Shrubbery or vegetation in excess of three feet in height within a
radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any street intersects
the curb line of another street;
      (5)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery or other vegetation, which
interferes with street lights or the convenient maintenance of street lights,
or obstructs the light from street lights;
      (6)   Any trees, shrubbery or unauthorized vegetation planted within the
public right-of-way of any street, alley or public way; and
      (7)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery or other vegetation which creates
or constitutes a hazard to the pedestrians, persons passing by or the public.
   WEEDS. Any uncultivated plants occurring naturally which have a tendency to
dominate or drive out grasses or other cultivated plants, but does not include
agricultural crops such as hay and pasture.
   YARD WASTE. Lawn or garden waste, including but not limited to grass
clippings, leaves, mulch, brush, cut limbs from trees or shrubbery, and
compost.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 91.31 PROHIBITION OF RANK VEGETATION AND WEEDS.
   (A)   Rank vegetation and the uncontrolled growth of grass and weeds to a
height exceeding nine inches tends to provide harborage for undesirable
insects, rodents and other vermin, contributes to the blight of neighborhoods
and is hereby declared to be a nuisance and an endangerment to the public
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any real property located
within; the corporate limits of the city to permit any rank vegetation, as
defined herein to grow or e:xist on the owner's property, and it shall further
the unlawful for the owner to permit weeds or grass to grow to a height
exceeding nine inches.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 91.32 PROHIBITION OF YARD WASTE ON CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Yard waste cast, blown, placed or deposited on a public right-of-way,
including but not limited to city streets, alleys, sidewalks, ditches, gutters,
drains, curbs and other public areas tends to interfere with city's utility
services, most notably the drainage of storm-water and also tends to create an
unsafe condition for drivers, motorcyclists, pedestrians and bicyclists.
Accordingly, yard waste cast, blown, placed or deposited on a public right-of-
way is hereby declared to be a nuisance and an endangerment to the public
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any real property located within
the corporate limits of the city to cast, blow, place, or deposit upon or
otherwise cause yard waste to be placed on a public right-of-way. The owner
shall be responsible for the actions and omissions of its agents, contractors,
employees resulting in a violation of this provision.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 91.33 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY CHARGED WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the city's enforcement authority (the "Enforcement
Authority"), which currently consists of the Chiefs of the City's Fire
Department and Police Department, to investigate any alleged violations of this
chapter, and upon determining that a violation has occurred, to cause the
abatement of such nuisance by following the procedures provided for in this
chapter, or in any other manner as authorized by law.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 91.34 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Enforcement Authority; of the city shall investigate any alleged
violation of this chapter which comes to his or her attention and, upon
determining that a violation has occurred, he or she shall issue a five-day
written notice to the owner of the real estate upon which such violation
occurs, to remove the vegetation.
   (B)   The notice shall be in writing and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Description of the violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Address of the real estate on which said violation occurs;
      (3)   Demand to abate the violation and remove the offending vegetation
within five days of receipt of the notice;
      (4)   That failing to comply with the demand will result in the city
entering upon said real estate for the purpose of abating the violation, and
the costs thereof, together with administrative expenses, shall be billed to
the owner, and if not paid within 30 days, certified to; the County Auditor for
collection as delinquent property taxes are collected.
   (C)   Said notice shall be mailed by first class mail, or served by an
equivalent means as permitted under I.C. 1-1-7-1, to the owner of the real
estate where the violation occurs, as shown on the most recent records of the
County Auditor for the property. In the event there are multiple owners, notice
to at least one of the owners in accordance with the foregoing shall be
sufficient.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 91.35 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
   If the owner of the real estate so served! does not abate the nuisance
within five days after receipt of the notice, the city, by its employees,
agents or contractors, may enter onto the real estate and abate the nuisance,
keeping an accurate account of the expenses of the abatement.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 91.36 CONTINUOUS ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   If the owner of the real estate has been served with the initial notice of
the violation by certified mail, first class mail or equivalent service and has
failed to abate the violation, a continuous abatement notice may be posted at
the property at the time of the initial abatement by the city, which shall
serve as notice to the; owner that each subsequent violation during the same
calendar year may be abated by the city, its agents or contractors without
further notice.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 91.37 RECOVERY OF COSTS OF ABATEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Upon abatement of the nuisance by the city, its employees, agents or
contractors, the city shall issue a bill to the owner of the real estate upon
which the violation occurred, for the costs incurred in abating the violation,
including attorney fees, together with and in addition to an administrative fee
in the sum of $75, plus the cost of the service of the notice under §
91.34. In the event the bill is not paid within 30 days, interest shall accrue
on the unpaid balance at the rate of 8% per annum, land the amount of the
unpaid bill, plus an additional administrative fee in the sum of $25;
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, if the owner of
the real estate upon which the violation occurred fails to pay the bill issued
under this section, within 30 days, the amount of the bill, plus an additional
administrative fee in the sum of $100 and accrued interest shall be certified
to the auditor of the county for collection as delinquent taxes are collected.
   (C)   As an alternative to division (B) of this section, if the owner of the
real estate upon which the violation occurred fails to pay the bill issued
under this section within 30 days, the city may bring an action in the
appropriate court collect the amount of the bill, plus additional costs
incurred in the collection, including court coasts and reasonable attorney's
fees. If a judgment is obtained, it constitutes a lien upon the real and
personal property of the owner pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-4.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 91.38 PROCEDURES FOR APPEAL.
   An owner of real estate who has received] notice of violation of this
chapter, or who has received a bill for abatement of a violation under this
chapter, may appeal the same to the Board of Public Works of the City of
Jasonville. The appeal shall be initiated by delivering written notice of the
owner's intent to appeal to the Clerk-Treasurer of the city within five days
after receipt of a notice of violation or a bill for the abatement of the
violation. The appeal shall thereafter be referred to the Board of Public Works
and Safety for hearing at its next regular or specially called meeting. The
owner shall be given at least five days' written notice of the meeting, and
shall be entitled to appear in person and/or by representation to be heard on
his or her appeal.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 7-8-2019)
COAL MINING
§ 91.50 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The mining of coal within the corporate limits of the city by what is known
as the strip mining method of removing the surface soil from coal is injurious
to the public health and safety within said city, is offensive to the senses,
essentially interferes with the free use of property and the comfortable
enjoyment of life and property, and is hereby declared to be and constitute a
public nuisance and unlawful.
(2003 Code, § 8.12.010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.51 STRIP MINING METHOD PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to mine coal by
the strip process or strip mine method within the corporate limits of the city.
(2003 Code, § 8.12.020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.52 NOTICE OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Strip mining of coal within the corporate limits of said city shall be
abated by the Common Council by the service of a notice by said Council upon
the person, firm, or corporation which shall be engaged in such activities,
demanding the cessation of such operations and the abatement of such nuisance,
and by an appropriate action to enforce such abatement.
   (B)   Such notice and demand may be served by delivery of copy thereof to
any person in charge of such corporation or any agent or officer of any such
person, persons, firm, or corporation, or upon any such person, persons, or
member of such firm, at least five days prior to the commencement of such
action, and by any officer or agent of said city thereunto duly authorized by
the Common Council.
(2003 Code, § 8.12.030)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §
91.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in any
amount not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(2003 Code, § 8.08.020)
   (C)   (1)   Any person responsible for any fire that is in violation of §
91.02 to which the Fire Department must respond will be assessed $125 as
payment for the fire run.
      (2)   Any person violating any provisions or conditions of §
91.02(A) or (B) may be fined for each offense a sum not less than $25 or more
than $125. This may be in addition to the cost of the fire run as described in
division (C)(1) above.
      (3)   All fines, fees, and penalties are to be paid to the city and
deposited into the Special Fire Fund.
   (D)   The operator or owner of the vehicle will be assessed a penalty of
$100 for the first offense of §
91.03 and $250 for each offense after that, or other penalties in compliance
and in accordance with the laws of the state.
(2003 Code, § 9.16.030)
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
91.04 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less
than $1 nor more than $5, for each offense.
(2003 Code, § 8.16.020)
   (F)   Any person violating any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.18, upon conviction, shall be fined $15 for the first offense, $20 for the
second offense, and $25 for the third and each succeeding offense. Each day’s
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 8.04.050)
   (G)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provision of §§
91.30 through
91.37, or who shall resist or obstruct the carrying out of the provisions of §§
91.30 through
91.37, shall be guilty of a municipal ordinance violation and, in addition to
being responsible for the costs of abatement and administrative expenses as
provided for above, shall be punishable by a municipal fine of $50 for the
first offense and $100 for the second or subsequent offense occurring in the
same calendar year. If the city has to go in and clean up the property after
giving notice to the landowner, the city can assess a $50 processing expense
and the cost of cleaning up the property.
   (H)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
91.50 through
91.52 shall, upon conviction, be fined in the sum of $500 for each violation
and offense hereunder and each day of violation shall be a separate and
distinct offense and subject to said fine of $500 each day said operation or
offense is continued.
(2003 Code, § 8.12.040)
(Ord. 23-10, passed 6-18-1923; Ord. 101, passed 2-2-1948; Ord. 184. passed 8-
11-1964; Ord. 75-3, passed 3-10-1975; Ord. 1997-4, passed 5-29-1997; Ord. 2015-
2, passed 8-10-2015; Ord. 2016-5, passed 3-14-2016)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
92.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
92.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
92.10   Exemptions
   
92.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the City of Jasonville to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. §
22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter:
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3).
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6 (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04 through
92.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. 
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in division (H) of this section,
   HANDICAP. 
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 and 910 IAC
2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers, and fiduciaries (I.C. 22-
9.5-2-11).
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant (I.C. 22-
9.5-2-13).
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
92.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing; after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or-transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding twelve months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding twelve months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §§
92.03(B) and 92.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination.
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the; entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, on
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a, rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               A.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               B.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               C.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as "ANSI A117.1") suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (A)(8)(c)3.C.
   (C)   Nothing in this subsection requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
92.03 through
92.06.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with; or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with;
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate: such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
Federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 92.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 92.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include; those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or Federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 92.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
City of Jasonville, Indiana;
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the City of
Jasonville, Indiana, because of lack of financial and other resources necessary
to fully administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under
this chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the
sections of this chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission
for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief
elected official of the City of Jasonville, Indiana, shall refer all said
complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) of this section
to said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate
relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the City of Jasonville,
Indiana shall administer their departments, programs and activities relating to
housing and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes
of this chapter and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the
Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the City of Jasonville, Indiana, or the
chief elected official's designee, shall provide information on remedies
available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-8-2017)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES AND JUNK CARS
Section
Scope
   
93.01   Scope
Definitions
   
93.15   Definitions
Abandoned Vehicles and Junk Cars
   
93.25   Removal of abandoned vehicles and junk cars, generally
   
93.26   Non-exclusive remedy
   
93.27   Applicability
   
93.28   Authorization of enforcement
   
93.29   Liability of owner of abandoned vehicle; sale of vehicle
   
93.30   Inability to establish right of possession
   
93.31   Tagging abandoned vehicle
   
93.32   Tagging abandoned vehicles and junk cars in fenced-in areas
   
93.33   Written report of abandoned vehicle
   
93.34   Inability to locate owner; declaration of abandonment
   
93.35   Storage yard shall notify city of possession of abandoned vehicle
   
93.36   Search of National Motor Vehicle Title Information System
   
93.37   Release of vehicle
   
93.38   Removal and disposal of abandoned and junk vehicles
   
93.39   Administration
   
93.40   Abandoned Vehicle Fund
   
93.41   Non-liability for loss or damage
Editor’s note:
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be in accordance with §§
70.01 through
70.03
SCOPE
§ 93.01 SCOPE.
   Chapter 93 of this municipal code (the “code”) shall govern the regulation
and prohibition of abandoned vehicles and junk cars, as defined herein, within
the city, pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-1 through 9-22-1-32.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
DEFINITIONS
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally, or a vehicle left
on public property continuously without being moved, for more than three days;
      (2)   A mechanically inoperable vehicle that is located on public
property in such a manner as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the
movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (3)   A vehicle that has remained on private property for more than 48
hours without authorization by the owner or other person having the legal right
to control the use of the property;
      (4)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than
this chapter if the vehicle, once impounded, is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or his or her agent within 20 days of the date of its removal;
      (6)   A vehicle that is three or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days; or
      (7)   Any vehicle that constitutes an abandoned vehicle pursuant to I.C.
9-22-1.
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAP YARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety for the City of Jasonville.
   BUREAU. The State of Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   CITY. The City of Jasonville, Indiana.
   COUNCIL. The Common Council of the City of Jasonville, Indiana.
   JUNK CAR. Any motor vehicle or part(s) thereof which (a) does not bear a
currently valid license plate, and is not kept in a garage or other building,
regardless of age or condition; or (b) has a market value of $750 or less. For
purposes of this chapter, a garage or other building does not include a tarp,
plastic sheeting or any other material or impermanent means that are commonly
used to cover a motor vehicle.
   OFFICER. Any regular member of the Jasonville Police Department or any other
person authorized by the Council or the Board to enforce the ordinances of the
city.
   STORAGE YARD. Storage facility or a towing service used for the removal and
storage of abandoned vehicles or parts.
   VISIBLE FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY. A vehicle which can be seen from public
property, including vehicles that have been covered by an impermanent covering
that allows the form or the outline of the vehicle to remain visible from
public property, such as a tarp or plastic sheeting.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
ABANDONED VEHICLES AND JUNK CARS
§ 93.25 REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES AND JUNK CARS, GENERALLY.
   Abandoned vehicles and junk cars are detrimental to the health and safety of
the general public and are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and a health
safety hazard. For these reasons, the city shall have the authority to
identify, remove and dispose of abandoned vehicles and junk cars, as defined by
this chapter, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.26 NON-EXCLUSIVE REMEDY.
   This chapter is a nonexclusive remedy for a specific type of nuisance,
abandoned vehicles and junk cars, and shall not affect the authority of the
city to remedy public nuisances under any other applicable ordinance, including
abandoned vehicles and junk cars.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.27 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle; or
   (F)   A golf cart.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.28 AUTHORIZATION OF ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Police Department and any officer thereof is hereby designated to
carry out the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of I.C. 9-22-1-
1 through 9-22-1-32.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.29 LIABILITY OF OWNER OF ABANDONED VEHICLE; SALE OF VEHICLE.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment and
liable for all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the
abandoned vehicle, however such costs may not exceed $2,000. All such costs
shall constitute a lien against the vehicle and the vehicle shall not be
released until such costs are paid. If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person
who removed, towed or stored said vehicle pursuant to this chapter, the person
who previously owned the vehicle shall not be responsible for storage fees. Any
excess proceeds from such a sale, after payment of the costs of removal, towing
and sale disposal, shall be returned to the previous owner of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.30 INABILITY TO ESTABLISH RIGHT OF POSSESSION.
   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person other than
the owner of the vehicle and the person cannot establish the right to
possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place determined by the officer.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.31 TAGGING ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle believed to be abandoned
shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following
information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency, and address and
telephone number to contact for information.
   (B)   The vehicle or vehicle parts are considered abandoned.
   (C)   The vehicle or vehicle parts will be removed after:
      (1)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of any highway that is designated as part of the state highway
system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
      (2)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
   (D)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all costs
incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle.
   (E)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle within the applicable 24- or 72-hour deadline.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.32 TAGGING ABANDONED VEHICLES AND JUNK CARS IN FENCED-IN AREAS.
   If an abandoned vehicle is visible within a fenced in area and in violation
of this chapter, an officer who finds the vehicle may place a notice tag in a
visible location at the property where the vehicle is located. Any notice must
include the information in §
93.31 above.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.33 WRITTEN REPORT OF ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   If a vehicle is not removed within the applicable time period, the officer
shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle, including
information on make, model, engine number, vehicle identification number,
license plate number, condition, missing parts, and any other facts that might
substantiate the estimated market value of the vehicle. Photographs may be
taken to describe the condition of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.34 INABILITY TO LOCATE OWNER; DECLARATION OF ABANDONMENT.
   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear and pay all
costs, or the owner of a vehicle cannot be determined by a search conducted
under I.C. 9-22-1-19, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed
of under this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.35 STORAGE YARD SHALL NOTIFY CITY OF POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   A storage yard that tows a vehicle at the direction of the city pursuant to
this chapter shall give notice to the city that the abandoned vehicle is in the
possession of the storage yard.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.36 SEARCH OF NATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE TITLE INFORMATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Within three business days after removal of an abandoned vehicle to a
storage yard pursuant to this chapter, the city or the storage yard shall
conduct a search of the National Motor Vehicle Title Information System or an
equivalent and commonly available data base, to attempt to obtain the last
state of record of the vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name and
address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
   (B)   If the city or storage yard obtains the name and address of the owner
of or lienholder on an abandoned vehicle, the city or storage yard shall, not
later than three business days after obtaining the name and address, notify the
person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle of the following:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the public agency or
towing service.
      (2)   That storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is subject,
to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid.
      (3)   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction.
   (C)   Notices sent pursuant to this section must be made by certified mail
or a certificate of mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by
the Bureau.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.37 RELEASE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   If the properly identified person who owns or hold a lien on the
vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle and pays
all costs incurred against the vehicle at that time, the vehicle shall be
released.
   (B)   The storage yard may charge an inspection fee to an owner, lienholder
or insurance company representative to inspect a vehicle or retrieve items from
the vehicle. A fee under this division must be refunded, however, if all costs
relating to the tow and storage of the vehicle, as well as all other allowable
fees, are paid pursuant to the above division (A).
   (C)   The storage yard must accept payment made by any of the following
means by a person seeking to release a vehicle under this section: cash,
certified check or cashier’s check, insurance check, or money order.
   (D)   Upon receiving payment of all costs relating to a tow, the storage of
a vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, a towing service or storage
yard shall provide to the person making payment an itemized receipt that
includes the information set forth in I.C. 24-14-5, to the extent the
information is known or available.
   (E)   A storage yard used by the city for purposes of this chapter must be
open for business and accessible by telephone during regular office hours. A
towing service or storage yard must provide a telephone number that is
available on a 24-hour basis to receive calls and messages from callers,
including calls made outside of regular office hours. All calls made to a
towing service or storage yard must be returned within 24 hours from the time
received. However, if adverse weather, an act of god, or an emergency situation
over which the towing service or storage yard has no control prevents the
towing service or storage yard from returning calls within 24 hours, the towing
service or storage yard shall return all calls received as quickly as possible.
   (F)   A storage yard shall, if required, notify the appropriate public
agency of all releases under this section. The notification must include the
name and address of:
      (1)   The person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle; and
      (2)   The insurance company that insures the vehicle, if the vehicle was
released to a representative of the insurance company;
      (3)   The signature of the individual to whom the vehicle was released;
      (4)   A description of the vehicle or parts;
      (5)   Costs paid; and
      (6)   The date of release.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.38 REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   If an abandoned vehicle is a junk vehicle as defined by this chapter,
the city may dispose of such vehicle pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-3. The storage
yard shall not dispose of the vehicle for at least 30 days after the vehicle’s
towing or removal. If the vehicle is demolished, a copy of the abandoned
vehicle report and any photographs relating to the vehicle shall be forwarded
to the Bureau. The original records and photographs shall be retained for a
period of two years in the City Police Department.
   (B)   If in the opinion of the officer the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts exceeds $750, the officer, before placing a notice tag on the
vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person who
owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
After 72 hours from the time that the officer tags the abandoned vehicle, the
officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage yard.
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle or parts thereof are in such a condition that
vehicle identification numbers or other means of identification are not
available to determine the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, the
vehicle may be disposed of without notice.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.39 ADMINISTRATION.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts pursuant to this
chapter, the city may employ personnel, acquire equipment, property, and
facilities; and enter into towing contracts with storage yards for the removal,
storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles and parts.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.40 ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND.
   (A)   An Abandoned Vehicle Fund is hereby established as required under I.C.
9-22-1-30.
   (B)   (1)   The fund shall be used to pay for the costs for removal and
storage of an abandoned vehicle not claimed by the person who owns or holds a
lien on a vehicle.
      (2)   The costs incurred by the city in administering this fund shall be
paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
      (3)   The City Council shall annually appropriate sufficient money to the
fund. Money remaining in the fund at the end of the year remains in the fund
and does not revert to the General Fund.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 93.41 NON-LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The city shall not be liable for the loss or damage to a vehicle occurring
during the removal, storage, or disposition of a vehicle under this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-10-2020)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS
Section
   
94.01   Utility poles
   
94.02   Trimming trees
   
94.03   Payment for damages to streets
   
94.04   Improper machinery and equipment prohibited on streets
   
94.05   Utility cuts in streets and alleys
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   Whenever for the purpose of improving any property, public or private,
or any streets, alleys, or public ways within the corporate limits of said
city, it becomes necessary to remove any of the poles, wires, or any other
fixtures to make such improvement and the removal thereof is ordered by the
Common Council, the same shall be done by and at the expense of the said
companies within five days after written notice by the Mayor to remove the
same.
(2003 Code, § 12.04.010)
   (B)   If said companies fail, refuse, and neglect to comply with the order
of the Common Council to remove its poles or wires for the purpose above
specified, then and in that case the city or private individual is hereby
granted the right to remove said poles, wires, or other fixtures, and the
company violating the order to move said fixtures shall pay the cost of moving.
(2003 Code, § 12.04.020)
(Ord. 21, passed 7-28-1913)
§ 94.02 TRIMMING TREES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of all property within
the corporate limits of the city, whether such property be used for dwelling
purposes or otherwise, to trim the trees and dispose of the trash as
hereinafter provided.
(2003 Code, § 12.08.010)
   (B)   All trees within the corporate limits of the city standing or growing
upon or along the streets, alleys, or sidewalks in the city whose limbs or
branches are not of a sufficient height to allow ingress and egress shall be
cut or trimmed at least once each year by the owner or occupant of the premises
and the trash or rubbish from said trees shall be hauled away, burned, or
disposed of by the owner or occupant of the real estate or premises. All trees
shall be trimmed to a sufficient height so as not to interfere with the use of
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks in the city.
(2003 Code, § 12.08.020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 PAYMENT FOR DAMAGES TO STREETS.
   All vehicles having tracks, treads, or cleats damaging to the street surface
shall pay for such damages, as approved by the Common Council. The Council
shall have the authority to call in a third party to estimate such damages.
Such third party shall be experienced in working with asphalt and street
repair.
(2003 Code, § 12.20.010)
§ 94.04 IMPROPER MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED ON STREETS.
   No construction or farm machinery or equipment not suited for travel on
paved streets shall be allowed on any city streets whatsoever. Where said
machinery or equipment may have “street treads”, such treads shall be in proper
condition so as not to cause damage to the surface of the streets.
(2003 Code, § 12.20.020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 UTILITY CUTS IN STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into or make any opening in
the surface of, or tunnel under, any street or sidewalk or public place in the
city for any purpose whatsoever without having first secured the proper
excavation permit from the city’s utility superintendent.
   (B)   Permit applications. Application for an excavation permit shall be
made to the city’s utility superintendent (the "Superintendent”). Permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with, the requirements of the following provisions:
      (1)   Submission of a completed permit application, in the form
prescribed by the Superintendent, including all required attachments and scaled
drawings showing the location and area of the proposed excavation and the
location of all existing and proposed equipment.
      (2)   Payment of all money due to the city for prior obstructions or
excavations, including any loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city as a
result of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way or
any emergency actions taken by the city because of such prior excavations or
obstructions.
      (3)   Payment of the permit fee pursuant to division (D), below.
   (C)   Issuance of permit; conditions. If the Superintendent determines that
the applicant has satisfied the requirements of this section, an excavation
permit may be issued. If the Superintendent denies a request for an excavation
permit, the requesting party may appeal to the city’s Board of Public Utilities
(the “Board”) and request a hearing on the request.
      (1)   The Superintendent or Board, as applicable, may impose reasonable
conditions upon the issuance of an excavation permit and the performance of the
applicant thereunder in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare, to insure the structural integrity of the rights-of-way, and to
minimize disruption and inconvenience to the traveling public.
      (2)   A permit shall be void unless the excavation to be made pursuant
thereto is commenced within 30 days from the permit effective date and the work
diligently completed.
      (3)   Each permit shall state a purpose for the excavation and a time
period for completion of all the work to be done thereunder. The Superintendent
or his or her authorized representative may grant extensions of time for good
cause.
      (4)   The permittee shall be responsible to comply with all current
federal, state, and local laws, regulations and requirements. As used in this
section, the term PERMITTEE shall mean the person to whom an excavation permit
is issued, as well as the person owning the facility or installation for which
the excavation permit is issued.
   (D)   Permit fees; fee computation. The following fees are established for
utility cuts in streets and alleys:
      (1)   Sewer tap. A $105 fee is required for a sewer tap. This fee is for
the connection to the city’s sewer system and to defer the cost of installation
and maintenance of the city’s system. The sewer tap saddle will be furnished by
the city’s sewage utility.
      (2)   Road cut. A $350 fee is required for a road cut. This fee is for
the city’s incurred costs in patching the asphalt over the cut and to defer the
cost of maintaining the city’s roads and alleys. The permittee shall be
responsible for filling the road cut with appropriate sand and gravel to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent. The city shall complete the asphalt patch
or repave of the cut after the permittee has properly filled the road cut to
the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
      (3)   Unpaved alley cut. A $25 fee is required for an unpaved alley cut.
This fee is to defer the cost of maintaining the city’s roads and alleys. The
city, upon request, will provide sand and gravel necessary to fill and repair
the alley cut, which shall be completed by the permittee or its contractor to
the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
   (E)   Policy guidelines for street and alley cuts. The following fees are
established for utility cuts in streets and alleys:
      (1)   The permit must be requested at least two working days prior to the
planned cut and no excavation shall be undertaken until issuance of the permit
by the Superintendent or the Board, as the case may be.
      (2)   Road cuts shall be completed cleanly with a masonry saw.
      (3)   Dirt and asphalt from the cut shall not be used to fill the cut.
The permittee or his or her contractor shall be responsible for hauling away
the excess dirt and asphalt.
      (4)   The permittee or his or her contractor shall be responsible for
filling and/or repairing all road and alley cuts to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. The permittee or his or her contractor shall notify the
Superintendent when the cut has been filled and repaired and, upon such notice,
the Superintendent shall have 24 hours to approve the filling and repair or
notify the permittee that additional work is required in order to properly fill
and repair the cut.
      (5)   If the permittee or his or her contractor does not fill and/or
repair the cut to the satisfaction of the Superintendent, the city may fill and
repair the cut and seek reimbursement from the permittee for all of its costs
incurred in completing such work. In that event, the permittee shall pay to the
city, within 30 days of billing, the city’s cost incurred in restoring the
rights-of-way. If the permittee objects to the Superintendent’s determination
that the cut was not adequately filled and/or repaired, the permittee may
appeal the Superintendent’s determination to the Board, who will schedule a
hearing upon the permittee’s request. If the city incurs court costs and/or
attorney fees in its efforts to seek reimbursement pursuant to this division,
the city shall be entitled to recover all such amounts from the permittee.
      (6)   No permit shall be issued until the applicable permit fee has been
paid.
      (7)   All permit fees collected under this section will be receipted into
the General Fund and will be used to offset the cost of controlling and
managing the public rights-of-way.
      (8)   By accepting an approved excavation permit, the permittee
guarantees its work and shall maintain it for 36 months following its
completion and acceptance by the Superintendent or his or her authorized
representative. During this 36 month period, the permittee shall, upon
notification from the Superintendent or his or her authorized representative
and within a reasonable and acceptable time frame, correct all restoration work
to the extent necessary using the method specified by the Superintendent or his
or her authorized representative.
      (9)   If the permittee fails to restore the rights-of-way in the manner
and to the condition required by the Superintendent or his or her authorized
representative, or fails to satisfactorily and timely complete all repairs
required, the Superintendent or his or her authorized representative, at his or
her option, may perform the restoration with city forces or hire by contract
the services of an independent contractor to perform the restoration. In that
event, the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the
city’s cost incurred in restoring the rights-of-way.
      (10)   The permittee shall make the work site available for inspection at
all reasonable times during the performance and upon completion of the work.
      (11)   The Superintendent shall be responsible for developing the form of
an application for excavation permit to be used by those persons and entities
requesting issuance of a permit pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 2021-09, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation occupying or owning real estate and
property within the corporate limits of the city and failing to trim the limbs
or branches of said trees extending over the streets, alleys, or sidewalks to
the height of eight feet and failing to dispose of the limbs, trash, and
rubbish from the trimming of said trees shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, on conviction, shall be fined and forfeit to the city the sum of $5 for
each offense and each day that said occupant shall fail and refuse to trim said
trees and dispose of the trash and rubbish, as provided herein, shall be
constituted a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 12.08.030)
   (B)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law or §§
94.03 or
94.04, every person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500. These penalties or fines
shall be added to the cost of repairing the damages caused to the streets.
(2003 Code, § 12.20.030)
(Ord. 1926-11, passed 8-9-1926; Ord. 1989-5, passed 5-8-1989)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Liquor retailer’s permits
Amusements and Entertainment
   
110.15   Billiard tables (licensing requirements)
   
110.16   Public dances
   
110.17   Exhibitions/temporary businesses
   
110.18   Sport or game devices
Taxicabs
   
110.35   Definitions
   
110.36   Operator
   
110.37   Insurance
   
110.38   Taxicab driver
   
110.39   Taxicab
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMITS.
   Pursuant to I.C. Title 7.1, the city and the Common Council thereof hereby
consents that liquor retailers permits may be issued to applicants otherwise
duly qualified under this Act in respect to premises located within said city
and that alcoholic beverages may be sold within said corporate limits of the
city under the liquor retailers permits.
(2003 Code, § 5.20.010) (Ord. 50, passed 5-6-1935)
AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
§ 110.15 BILLIARD TABLES (LICENSING REQUIREMENTS).
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, within the city to keep for hire
or pay or to exhibit or display for public patronage any pool or billiard
table, without first obtaining a license as hereinafter provided for.
   (B)   The price of such license shall be $100 for each table, for each 12-
month period, and for the purpose of construing this section the time from
January 1, to December 31, each year, both dates inclusive, shall be the 12
months period for licensing, and no license shall be granted for any period of
time except as herein specified.
   (C)   Each license so granted shall be granted for a specific table and
shall not be transferrable.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee or possessor of any
billiard or pool table used or operated for gain or hire to suffer, allow or
permit any person under the age of 18 years, to visit or remain in the room or
place in which such tables may be kept or located.
   (E)   No pool or billiard table shall be kept for hire or pay or exhibited
or displayed for public patronage in the city within five blocks of any public
school.
   (F)   Gambling in any form, by throwing dice for money, playing cards,
conducting raffles or other games of chance, is hereby prohibited in any
billiard or pool room or at any other business maintained or conducted in the
same room.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to keep open any billiard or pool room within the
city or to permit the playing of any game of billiards or pool upon any table
therein between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (H)   Every license issued hereunder is subject to the right, which is
hereby expressly reserved, to revoke the same should licensee violate any of
the terms of this section, or directly or indirectly, suffer or permit the
display or exhibition of anything as a part of said table or the games played
thereon, contrary to law or good morals.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 PUBLIC DANCES.
   (A)   License required; exception. It shall be unlawful for any person to
give or conduct any public dance for which a fee is charged in any room, hall,
building, structure, tavern, café, lounge or garden or other place in the city
without first have obtained a license therefore as provided in this section. No
such license shall be required for the giving of any private dance to which the
public generally is not admitted or to any dance the proceeds of which are
devoted exclusively to any religious, educational, civic, charitable, literary
or scientific purpose.
   (B)   Application required. Every applicant for such dance license shall
make application therefor to City Police Department of said city prior to the
day of said dance and no license shall be issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer
for any such dance until said application has been properly approved and signed
by said City Police Department. Said application shall state the time and place
of said dance, the admission if any to be charged, the sponsor’s name and
address and the name and address of the promoter, if any.
   (C)   Policing. The license shall provide the name of a person or persons
acceptable to said City Police Department, the same and to see that such dance
is carried on and conducted in a decent and proper manner; said person shall
maintain order at such dance and shall immediately notify the Police Department
of any intoxication or lewd, immoral or unseemly conduct upon the part of any
person there attending or of any person who offends against the decent
proprieties of a social gathering.
   (D)   Weekly license. The Clerk-Treasurer upon the recommendation of the
City Police Department shall have a right to issue concurrent licenses for the
giving of dances in such places upon consecutive days; provided, however, no
such license shall be issued for more than six consecutive days; and provided,
further, that each day’s license so issued shall be a separate license for that
day only. If, where such concurrent licenses are issued, there shall be a
violation of any of the provisions of the section, the Police Department may
revoke the said license for the remainder of said period of time.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 EXHIBITIONS/TEMPORARY BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation to
exhibit any animal or collection of animals, any circus, museum or any other
exhibition or public entertainment for which money is demanded or received,
within the corporate limits of said city, or in or upon any boat or other
watercraft on the Ohio River in front of said city, until a license so to do
has first been obtained according to the provisions of this section; provided,
that nothing in this section shall be constructed to include lectures on
scientific, historic, benevolent or literary subjects, or to include lectures
or entertainments held in the city hall or in any of the churches of said city.
   (B)   The price of licenses under this section shall be as follows:
      (1)   For exhibitions as set out in division (A) above exhibited in a
public hall, store room, street or other public place, including all
exhibitions on boats, per day $10; and
      (2)   Circuses or menagerie, per day $15.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.18 SPORT OR GAME DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or possessor of any bowling
alley, ring throwing or ball throwing game or any other machine, device or
place of any king for sport or games to allow the same to be used for hire or
reward without first obtaining a license to do so according to this section.
   (B)   The license fee for devices described in division (A) above is $1 per
day or $10 per year.
Penalty, see §
110.99
TAXICABS
§ 110.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person, partnership or corporation applying for a taxicab
operator permit.
   OPERATOR. Any person, partnership, corporation or other entity engaged in
the business of owning and operating taxicabs for hire.
   TAXICAB. A vehicle driven by mechanical power, designed to carry not more
than seven passengers, for public hire, and not operated on a fixed route.
   TAXICAB DRIVER. Any person who is in actual physical control of a taxicab
and is operating the taxicab for hire.
   TAXICAB OPERATOR PERMIT. A permit issued by the city to the operator,
allowing the operator to conduct taxicab business within the city’s
jurisdiction.
   VEHICLE NUMBER. Unique numbering for each vehicle owned by a particular
operator. This number should be a two digit or a three digit number posted in
three places on the outside of each taxicab vehicle.
§ 110.36 OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person, partnership, corporation or other entity shall operate a
taxicab within the corporate limits of the city without obtaining an annual
taxicab operator permit from the city. The permit fee shall be $100 and paid
annually to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. No taxicab operator permit shall be
issued until the operator has demonstrated compliance with all items in this
chapter.
   (B)   Any applicant or holder of a taxicab operator permit shall agree to
inspection of all taxicab vehicles owned or operated by the applicant or holder
of a taxicab operator permit by any representative of the city, its Police
Department, or the County Sheriff’s Department, at any time without advance
notification or cause. In addition to the actual taxicab vehicles, this
inspection may include any taxicab staging lot located in the county or any
adjacent county, along with any taxicab office located in the county or any
adjacent county, including all taxicab driver records and trip records.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.37 INSURANCE.
   No taxicab operator shall engage in any taxicab business within the limits
of the city unless there is on file with the Clerk-Treasurer, and in force and
effect, a certificate of insurance executed by a duly authorized officer of an
insurance company authorized to write insurance in the state, to the effect
that a policy of insurance has been issued to the operator for the taxicab
operation. The policy of insurance shall be at a minimum of $1,000,000 general
liability each occurrence and in the aggregate.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.38 TAXICAB DRIVER.
   (A)   It shall be the obligation of the owner or operator of any taxicab
company which has secured a license to operate in the city to assure that each
driver employed has obtained a state required license to operate passenger
transporting conveyances for hire.
   (B)   No person, partnership, corporation or other entity shall be issued a
taxicab operator permit until the applicant has demonstrated compliance with
drug and alcohol testing requirements consistent with the United States
Department of Transportation (DOT) rules and regulations of 49 C.F.R. Part 382
- Controlled Substances and Alcohol Use and Testing. The applicant and/or
current taxicab operator permit holder must submit the operator’s drug and
alcohol testing program to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, along with any
applicable updates, changes and/or amendments. By receiving a permit from the
city, the taxicab operator and taxicab drivers agree that periodic record
checks may be made by the city of the current license of each taxicab driver.
   (C)   Each holder of a taxicab operator permit must supply the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office with a current list of taxicab drivers, including driver’s
name, current address, record of each driver’s drug testing schedule, and
photocopy of each taxicab driver’s license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.39 TAXICAB.
   (A)   No taxicab vehicle may be operated within the jurisdiction of the city
without the owner/operator of that taxicab vehicle first having obtained a
permit according to this chapter in addition to compliance with all other
sections of this chapter.
   (B)   Each holder of a taxicab operator permit shall supply the City Clerk-
Treasurer’s office with a current list of each taxicab vehicle operated under a
permit, including the vehicle make and model, year, cab number and state
licenses number.
   (C)   Each taxicab vehicle operated within the jurisdiction of the city
shall comply with all state vehicle safety requirements.
   (D)   Each taxicab shall have the rate of fees clearly posted inside the
taxicab.
   (E)   Each taxicab shall be clearly marked as a “taxicab” with, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   A working top light affixed to the roof of the taxicab;
      (2)   The 24 hour phone number of the operator of the taxicab company
clearly marked on each side of the vehicle; and
      (3)   The vehicle number must be clearly marked on both sides and the
rear of the taxicab in a manner to be clearly seen and distinguishable by any
law enforcement officers, pedestrians or motorists, and this number shall be
unique to each taxicab for the use of distinguishing each individual taxicab
vehicle.
   (F)   Every taxicab operating under the terms of this chapter shall be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition inside the passenger area, trunk and the
outside of the vehicle. Vehicles shall be free from mechanical defects, rust
and/or body damage.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
110.15 shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $100 for each violation by him
or her committed. Every day any such violation shall occur, shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
110.16 shall, upon conviction thereof be fined any sum not more than $25. Every
day such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person or persons, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
110.17 shall be fined in any sum not less than $10, nor more than $25 for each
and every day the provisions of this section may be violated.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
110.18 shall be subject to a civil penalty in a sum not less than the amount of
the license which should have been acquired.
   (E)   Any person, partnership, corporation or other entity operating a
taxicab in violation of §§
110.35 through
110.39 shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $250 and not more than
$2,500 for each violation in addition to any applicable fines, fees or
penalties in conjunction with this or any other violation.
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   City policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale or
making sales or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in a way as
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the
public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW
      
131.   MISDEMEANORS
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Curfew hours
   
130.02   Exceptions
   
130.03   Responsibility
   
130.04   Written citation
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for a minor (under 18), during curfew hours, to remain
in or upon any public place within the city, to remain in any motor vehicle,
operating or parked, therein or thereon, or to remain in or upon the premises
of any establishment within the city. CURFEW HOURS include any time after 1:00
a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights and after 11:00 p.m. on other nights.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   Exceptions include the following:
   (A)   A parent or guardian accompanies the minor;
   (B)   The minor is involved in an emergency;
   (C)   The minor is engaged in an employment activity, or is going to or
returning home from such activity without detour or stop;
   (D)   The minor is on the sidewalk directly abutting a place where he or she
resides with a parent or guardian;
   (E)   The minor is attending any activity sponsored by a school, a religious
or civic organization, a public organization or agency, or another similar
organization or entity, which activity is supervised by adults, and/or the
minor is going to or returning home from such activity without detour or stop;
   (F)   The minor is on an errand at the direction of a parent or guardian and
the minor has on his or her possession a writing signed by the parent or
guardian containing the following information: the name, signature, address,
and telephone number of the parent or guardian authorizing the errand, the name
of the minor, the minor’s destination, and the date and time that the minor is
authorized to be engaged in the errand;
   (G)   The minor is involved in interstate travel through, or beginning or
terminating in the city; and/or
   (H)   The minor is exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech,
and the right of assembly.
§ 130.03 RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is unlawful for a parent, owner/operator of a motor vehicle, or owner of
a business establishment to knowingly permit or allow a curfew violation.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 WRITTEN CITATION.
   After determining a curfew violation, a police officer shall issue a written
citation to the minor and advise parents or guardians of the alleged violation.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Penalty for violation of this chapter is $25 for the first offense, $50 for
the second, and $100 for subsequent offenses.
CHAPTER 131: MISDEMEANORS
Section
   
131.01   Prohibiting the consumption of alcohol in certain public places
   
131.02   Restriction of certain public areas to smokers and non-smokers
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PROHIBITING THE CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL IN CERTAIN PUBLIC PLACES.
   A person who consumes alcoholic beverages in a public place or place of
public resort located within the corporate limits of the city, unless such
public place or place of public resort is licensed or exempt from licensing
under the laws of the state relating to alcoholic beverages, commits the
unlawful consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(2003 Code, § 9.08.010) (Ord. 1978-5, passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 RESTRICTION OF CERTAIN PUBLIC AREAS TO SMOKERS AND NON-SMOKERS.
   (A)   Any public area, including any private property open to or frequented
by the public, may be divided by the person in control of such area into
smoking and non-smoking sections. Such division shall be noted by a physical
division or signs which are apparent to a person located within such public
area.
   (B)   No person who is located within an area designated as non-smoking
shall smoke cigarettes, cigars, or pipes or any other substance.
(2003 Code, § 9.08.020) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be a Class C infraction.
(2003 Code, § 9.08.030) (Ord. 1979-3, passed 6-4-1979)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   HOUSING MAINTENANCE AND OCCUPANCY CODE
      
151.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES, TINY HOMES, CAMPERS AND AMISH CABINS USED AS DWELLINGS
      
153.   IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF DITCHES
      
154.   SIGNAGE
CHAPTER 150: HOUSING MAINTENANCE AND OCCUPANCY CODE
Section
   
150.01   General provisions
   
150.02   Definitions; rules of construction
   
150.03   Responsibility of owners and occupants
   
150.04   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
150.05   Minimum standards for light and ventilation
   
150.06   Minimum thermal standards
   
150.07   General requirements relating to the safe and sanitary maintenance of
parts of dwellings and dwelling units
   
150.08   Maximum density, minimum space use and location requirements
   
150.09   Rooming house, rooming units, dormitories, dormitory rooms
   
150.10   Adoption of plans of inspection by the Housing Authority
   
150.11   Inspections: powers and duties of the Housing Authority
   
150.12   Rules and regulations
   
150.13   Notice of violation
   
150.14   Collection and dissemination of information
   
150.15   Appeals
   
150.16   Emergencies
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The following general provisions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of this chapter.
   (A)   Legislative findings. It is hereby found that there exists and may in
the future exist, within the city premises, dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
units, or parts thereof, which by reason of their structure, equipment,
sanitation, maintenance, use, or occupancy affect or are likely to affect
adversely the public health (including the physical, mental, and social well
being of persons and families), safety, and general welfare. To correct and
prevent the existence of such adverse conditions and to achieve and maintain
such levels of residential environmental quality as will protect and promote
public health, safety, and general welfare, it is further found that the
establishment and enforcement of minimum housing standards are required.
   (B)   Purposes. It is hereby declared that the purpose of this chapter is to
protect, preserve, and promote the physical and mental health and social well
being of the people, to prevent and control the incidence of communicable
diseases, to reduce environmental hazards to health, to regulate privately- and
publicly-owned dwellings for the purpose of maintaining adequate sanitation and
public health, and to protect the safety of the people and to promote the
general welfare by legislation which shall be applicable to all dwellings now
in existence or hereafter constructed. It is hereby declared that the purpose
of this chapter is to ensure that the quality of housing is adequate for
protection of public health, safety, and general welfare including,
establishment of minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities for
light, ventilation, and thermal conditions, for safety from fire and accidents,
for the use and location and amount of space for human occupancy, and for an
adequate level of maintenance; determination of the responsibilities of owners,
operators, and occupants of dwellings; and provision for the administration and
enforcement thereof.
   (C)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall apply uniformly to the
construction, maintenance, use, and occupancy of all residential buildings and
structures, where applicable, and shall apply uniformly to the alteration,
repair, equipment, use, occupancy, and maintenance of all existing residential
buildings and structures within the jurisdiction of the city irrespective of
when or under what code or codes such buildings or structures were originally
constructed or rehabilitated.
   (D)   Title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Housing
Maintenance and Occupancy Code of the city, hereinafter referred to as “this
chapter”.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.010) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS; RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Rules of construction.
      (1)   Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, PREMISES, or STRUCTURE
are used in the chapter they shall be construed as though they were followed by
the words “or any part thereof”.
      (2)   Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
      (3)   The masculine gender includes the feminine, and the feminine the
masculine.
      (4)   Words not specifically defined in this section shall have the
common definition set forth in a standard dictionary.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A detached building or structure in a
secondary or subordinate capacity from the main or principal building or
structure on the same premises.
      APPROPRIATE AUTHORITY. The person within the governmental structure of
the city who is charged with the administration of the appropriate code.
      APPROVED. Approved by the local or state authority having such
administrative authority.
      ASHES. The residue from the burning of combustible materials.
      ATTIC. Any story situated wholly or partly within the roof, and so
designed, arranged, or built as to be used for business, storage, or
habitation.
      BASEMENT. The lowest story of a building below the main floor and wholly
or partially lower than the surface of the ground.
      BUILDING. A fixed construction with walls, foundation, and roof, such as
a house, factory, garage, and the like.
      BULK CONTAINER. Any metal garbage, rubbish, and/or refuse container
having a capacity of two cubic yards or greater and which is equipped with
fittings for hydraulic and/or mechanical emptying, unloading, and/or removal.
      CELLAR. A room or group of rooms totally below the ground level and
usually under a building.
      CENTRAL HEATING SYSTEM. A single system supplying heat to one or more
dwelling unit(s) or more than one rooming unit.
      CHIMNEY. A vertical masonry shaft of reinforced concrete or other
approved noncombustible, heat-resisting material enclosing one or more flues
for the purpose of removing products of combustion from solid, liquid, or
gaseous fuel.
      DILAPIDATED. No longer adequate for the purpose or use for which it was
originally intended.
      DORMITORY. A building or a group of rooms in a building used for
institutional living and sleeping purposes by four or more persons.
      DWELLING. Any enclosed space wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating; provided that temporary housing as
hereinafter defined shall not be classified as a DWELLING. Industrialized
housing and modular construction which conform to nationally accepted industry
standards and used or intended for use for living, sleeping, cooking, and
eating purposes shall be classified as DWELLINGS.
      DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms located within a dwelling forming
a single habitable unit with facilities used or intended to be used by a single
family of living, sleeping, cooking, and eating purposes.
      EGRESS. An arrangement of exit facilities to assure a safe means of exit
from buildings.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping, or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods
approved by the local or state authority having such administrative authority.
      FAIR MARKET VALUE. A price at which both buyers and sellers are willing
to do business.
      FAMILY. One or more individuals living together and sharing common
living, sleeping, cooking, and eating facilities. (See HOUSEHOLD.)
      FLUSH WATER CLOSET. A toilet bowl which is flushed with water which has
been supplied under pressure and equipped with a water sealed trap above the
floor level.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, serving, and non-consumption of food.
      GRADE. The finished ground level adjacent to a required window.
      GUEST. An individual who shares a dwelling unit in a non-permanent status
for not more than 30 days.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, furnace rooms, pantries, kitchenettes,
and utility rooms of less than 50 square feet of floor space, foyers, or
communicating corridors, stairways, closets, storage spaces, and workshops,
hobby and recreation areas.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated health authority of the city or
his or her authorized representative.
      HEATED WATER. Water heated to a temperature of not less than 120°F at the
outlet.
      HEATING DEVICE. All furnaces, unit heaters, domestic incinerators,
cooking and heating stoves and ranges, and other similar devices.
      HOUSEHOLD. One or more individuals living together in a single dwelling
unit and sharing common living, sleeping, cooking, and eating facilities.
      HOUSING AUTHORITY. The Housing Authority of the city.
      KITCHEN. Any room used for the storage of foods, preparation of foods,
and containing the following equipment: sink and/or other device for
dishwashing, stove or other device for cooking, refrigerator or other device
for cool storage of food, cabinets and/or shelves for storage of equipment and
utensils, and counter or table for food preparation.
      KITCHENETTE. A small kitchen or an alcove containing cooking facilities.
      LEAD-BASED PAINT. Any paint containing more lead than the level
established by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission as being the “safe”
level of lead in residential paint and paint products.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any individual over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking,
or eating in or having possession of a dwelling unit or a rooming unit; except
that in dwelling units a guest shall not be considered an OCCUPANT.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, control, or management of a
building, or part thereof in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      ORDINARY SUMMER CONDITIONS. A temperature 10°F below the highest recorded
temperature in the locality for the prior ten-year period.
      ORDINARY WINTER CONDITIONS. A temperature 15°F above the lowest recorded
temperature in the locality for the prior ten-year period.
      OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly, or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have legal title to any premise, dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (b)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any premise, dwelling, or
dwelling unit, as OWNER or agent of the owner or an executor, administrator,
trustee, or guardian of the estate of the OWNER. Any such person thus
representing the actual OWNER shall be bound to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the same
extent as if he or she were the owner.
      PERMISSIBLE OCCUPANCY. The maximum number of individuals permitted to
reside in a dwelling unit, rooming unit, or dormitory.
      PERSON. Include any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, cooperative, or governmental agency.
      PLUMBING. Include all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas pipes; gas burning equipment; water pipes; garbage disposal units; waste
pipes; water closets; sinks; installed dishwashers; lavatories; bathtubs;
shower baths; installed clothes washing machines; catch basins; drains; vents;
and any other similar supplied fixtures, and the installation thereof, together
with all connections to water, sewer, or gas lines.
      PREMISES. A platted lot or part thereof or un-platted lot or parcel of
land or plot of land, either occupied or unoccupied by any dwelling or non-
dwelling structure, and includes any such building, accessory structure, or
other structure thereon.
      PRIVACY. The existence of conditions which will permit an individual or
individuals to carry out an activity commenced without interruption or
interference, either by sight or sound by unwanted individuals.
      PROPERLY CONNECTED. Connected in accordance with all applicable code and
ordinances of this city as from time to time enforced; provided, however, that
the application of this definition shall not require the alteration or
replacement of any connection in good working order and not constituting a
hazard to life or health.
      RAT HARBORAGE. Any conditions or place where rats can live, nest, or seek
shelter.
      RAT-PROOFING. A form of construction which will prevent the ingress or
egress of rats to or from a given space or building, or from gaining access to
food, water, or harborage. It consists of the closing and keeping closed of
every opening in foundations, basements, cellars, exterior and interior walls,
ground or first floors, roofs, sidewalk gratings, sidewalk openings, and other
places that may be reached and entered by rates by climbing, burrowing, or
other methods, by the use of materials impervious to rat gnawing and other
methods approved by the city.
      REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solids (except body wastes)
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, and dead animals.
      REFUSE CONTAINER. A water-tight container that is constructed of metal,
or other durable material impervious to rodents, that is capable of being
serviced without creating unsanitary conditions, or such other containers as
have been approved by the appropriate authority. Openings into the container
such as covers and doors shall be tight-fitting.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling other than a hotel or motel, or that part of
any dwelling, containing one or more rooming units and/or one or more dormitory
rooms in which persons either individually or as families are housed with or
without meals being provided.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking
purposes.
      RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes) consisting of
either:
         (a)   Combustible wastes such as paper, cardboard, plastic containers,
yard clippings, and wood; or
         (b)   Noncombustible wastes such as tin cans, glass, and crockery.
      SAFETY. The condition of being reasonablely free from danger and hazards
which may cause accidents or disease.
      SPACE HEATER. A self-contained heating appliance of either the convection
type or the radiant type and intended primarily to heat only a limited space or
area such as one room or two adjoining rooms.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished by, provided by, or under the control of
the owner, operator, or agent.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer, mobile home, or any other structure
used for human shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not
attached to the ground, to another structure, or to any utility system on the
same premises for more than 30 consecutive days.
      TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any chemical product applied on the surface of or
incorporated into any structural or decorative material which constitutes a
potential hazard to human health at acute or chronic exposure levels.
      VARIANCE. A difference between that which is required or specified and
that which is permitted.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.020) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -)
§ 150.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   No owner or other person shall occupy or let to another person any
dwelling or dwelling unit unless it and the premises are clean, sanitary, fit
for human occupancy, and comply with all applicable legal requirements of the
state and the city.
   (B)   Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall
maintain or shall cause to be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition the
shared or public area of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall maintain in a
clean and sanitary condition that part or those parts of the dwelling, dwelling
unit, and premises thereof that occupies and controls.
   (D)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store and dispose
of all his or her rubbish in a clean, sanitary, and safe manner.
   (E)   (1)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store and
dispose of all his or her garbage, refuse, and any other organic waste which
might provide food for insects and/or rodents in a clean, sanitary, safe
manner. All garbage cans and refuse containers shall be rat-proof, insect-
proof, water-tight, structurally strong to withstand handling stress, easily
filled, emptied and cleaned; shall be provided with tight-fitting covers or
similar closures; and shall be maintained at all times in a clean, sanitary
condition. Plastic bags may be used as garbage and refuse container liners, but
shall not be used without the container for on-site storage of garbage or
refuse.
      (2)   Bulk storage containers which are used for the storage of garbage,
refuse, and/or other putrescible waste shall be placed on concrete platforms
which are constructed to minimize spillage onto the adjacent areas and shall be
equipped with drains properly connected to an approved sewer system. In the
immediate vicinity of the bulk storage container, there shall be a water faucet
for use in cleaning each bulk storage container at the site of storage or there
shall be provided some other means approved by the city for the cleansing of
the container. All bulk storage containers shall be equipped with self-closing
lids.
   (F)   The total capacity of all provided garbage and/or refuse cans and bulk
storage containers shall be sufficient to meet the needs of the occupants of
the dwelling.
   (G)   The owner of a dwelling unit shall be responsible for providing and
hanging all screens and double or storm doors and windows whenever the same are
required under the provisions of this chapter or any rule or regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, except where there is a written agreement between the owner
and occupant. In the absence of such an agreement, maintenance, or replacement
of screens, storm doors, and windows, once installed in any one season becomes
the responsibility of the occupant.
   (H)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of insects and/or rats on the premises;
and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more than one
dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his or her
dwelling unit is the only one infested. Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions of this section, whenever infestation is caused by failure of the
owner to maintain a dwelling in a rat-proof or reasonable insect-proof
condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner. Whenever
infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in any dwelling, or in
the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two or more dwelling
units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (I)   No occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall accumulate rubbish,
boxes, lumber, scrap metal, or any other materials in such a manner that may
provide a rat harborage in or about any dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (J)   No owner of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units shall
accumulate or permit the accumulation of rubbish, boxes, lumber, scrap metal,
or any other materials in such a manner that may provide a rat harborage in or
about the shared or public areas of a dwelling or its premises.
   (K)   No owner or occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store,
place, or allow to accumulate any materials which may serve as food for rats in
a site accessible to rats.
   (L)   All supplied fixtures and facilities in a dwelling unit shall be kept
in a clean, sanitary, and operable condition.
   (M)   In every dwelling unit and/or rooming unit when the control of the
supplied heat is the responsibility of a person other than the occupant, a
temperature of at least 68°F shall be maintained in all habitable rooms,
bathroom, and water closet compartments at a distance of 36 inches above the
floor level.
   (N)   Every owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall provide and maintain
the dwelling or dwelling unit free from hazards to health due to the presence
of toxic substances (e.g., lead-based paint) as determined by the Housing
Authority.
   (O)   No owner or occupant shall apply a lead-based paint to any surface in
any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, and/or rooming unit.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.030) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy as owner, occupant, or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purposes of living, sleeping, cooking or
eating therein, which does not comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall have a room or portion of a room in which
food may be prepared and/or cooked, which shall have adequate circulation area,
and which shall be equipped with the following:
      (1)   A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected to
a water supply system and which is connected to a sewer system approved by the
Housing Authority.
      (2)   A stove or similar device for cooking food, and a refrigerator or
similar device for the safe storage of food at temperatures less than 45°F but
more than 32°F under ordinary maximum summer conditions, which are properly
installed with all necessary connections for safe, sanitary, and efficient
operation; provided, that such stove, refrigerator, and/or similar devices need
not be installed when a dwelling unit is not occupied and when the occupant is
expected to provide same on occupancy, and that sufficient space and adequate
connections for the safe and efficient installation and operation of said
stove, refrigerator, and/or similar devices are provided.
   (B)   Within every dwelling unit there shall be a non-habitable room which
affords privacy to a person within said room and which is equipped with a flush
water closet in good working condition. Said flush water closet shall be
equipped with easily cleanable surfaces, be properly connected to a water
system that at all times provides an adequate amount of running water under
pressure to cause the water closet to be operated properly, and be properly
connected to a sewer system which is approved by the Housing Authority.
   (C)   Within every dwelling unit there shall be a lavatory sink. Said
lavatory sink may be in the same room as the flush water closet or, if located
in another room, the lavatory sink shall be located in close proximity to the
door leading directly into the room in which said water closet is located. The
lavatory sink shall be in good working condition and properly connected to a
water supply system which is approved by the appropriate authority and which
provides at all times an adequate amount of heated and unheated running water
under pressure, and which is properly connected to a sewer system approved by
the appropriate authority. Water inlets for lavatory sinks shall be located
above the overflow rim of these facilities.
   (D)   Within every dwelling unit there shall be a room which affords privacy
to a person within said room and which is equipped with a bathtub or shower in
good working condition. Said bathtub or shower may be in the same rooms as the
flush water closet or in another room and shall be properly connected to a
water supply system which is approved by the appropriate authority and which
provides at all times an adequate amount of heated and unheated water under
pressure, and which is connected to a sewer system approved by the appropriate
authority. Water inlets for bathtubs shall be located above the overflow rim of
these facilities.
   (E)   Structurally sound handrails shall be provided on any steps containing
four risers or more. Porches, patios, and/or balconies located more than three
feet higher than the adjacent area shall have structurally sound protective
guardrails or handrails.
   (F)   Each dwelling unit shall have facilities for the safe storage of drugs
and household poisons.
   (G)   Access to or egress from each dwelling unit shall be provided without
passing through any other dwelling unit.
   (H)   No person shall let to another for occupancy any dwelling or dwelling
unit unless all exterior doors of the dwelling or dwelling unit are equipped
with functioning locking devices.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.040) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   No person shall occupy as owner, occupant, or let to another for occupancy
and dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does
not comply with the requirements of this section.
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
outdoors; provided, that if connected to a room or area used seasonally (e.g.,
porch) then adequate daylight must be possible through this interconnection.
The minimum total window or skylight area, measured between stops, for every
habitable room shall be at least 10% of the floor area of such room, but if
light-obstruction structures are located less than three feet from the window
and extend to face directly to the outdoors, they shall not be included as
contributing to the required minimum total window area.
   (B)   (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly outdoors which can be opened easily, or such other device as
will ventilate the room adequately; provided, that if connected to a room or
area used seasonally, then adequate ventilation must be possible through this
interconnection. The total of openable window or skylight area in every
habitable room shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size
or minimum skylight type window size, as required in division (A) above, except
where there is supplied some other device affording adequate ventilation and
approved by the Housing Authority.
      (2)   When facilities for interior climate control (heating, cooling,
and/or humidity) are integral functions of structures containing dwelling units
or rooming units, such facilities shall be maintained and operated in a
continuous manner and in accordance with the designed capacity of the installed
equipment. During instances when the integral equipment is inoperative because
of power or mechanical failure, alternative provisions for fresh air
ventilation of each dwelling or rooming unit shall be provided.
   (C)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment, and non-habitable room
used for food preparation, shall comply with the light and ventilation
requirement for habitable rooms contained in divisions (A) and (B) above,
except that no window or skylight shall be required in such rooms if they are
equipped with a ventilation system in working condition which is approved by
the appropriate authority.
   (D)   Where there is usable electric service readily available from power
lines which are not more than 300 feet away from a dwelling, every dwelling
unit and all public and common areas shall be supplied with electric service
outlets and fixtures which shall be properly installed, shall be maintained in
good and sale working condition, and shall be connected to a source of electric
power in a manner prescribed by the ordinances, rules, and regulations of the
city. The minimum capacity of such services and the minimum number of outlets
and fixtures shall be as follows.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with at least one, 15 ampere
circuit and such circuit shall not be shared with another dwelling unit.
      (2)   Every habitable room shall contain at least two separate wall type
duplex electric convenience outlets or one such duplex convenience outlet and
one supplied wall or ceiling type electric light fixture. No duplex outlet
shall serve more than two fixtures or appliances.
      (3)   Temporary wiring or extension cords shall not be used as permanent
wiring.
      (4)   Every non-habitable room, including water closet compartments,
bathrooms, laundry room, furnace rooms, and public halls, shall contain at
least one supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture.
      (5)   All electric lights and outlets in bathrooms shall be controlled by
switches which are of such design as shall minimize the danger of electric
shock, and such lights and outlets shall be installed and maintained in such
condition as to minimize the danger of electrical shock.
   (E)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by natural or artificial light at all times so as to provide
in all parts thereof at least ten foot-candles of light at the tread of floor
level. Every public hall and stairway in structures containing not more than
two dwelling units may be supplied with conveniently located light switches
controlling an adequate lighting system which may be turned on when needed
instead of full-time lighting.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.050) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 MINIMUM THERMAL STANDARDS.
   No person shall occupy as owner, occupant, or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does
not comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every dwelling shall have heating equipment and appurtenances which
are properly installed and are maintained in safe and good working condition,
and are capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms,
bathrooms, and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit located therein
to a temperature of at least 68°F at a distance 36 inches above floor level
under ordinary winter conditions.
   (B)   No owner or occupant shall install, operate, or use a heating device,
including hot water heating units, which employs the combustion of carbonaceous
fuel, which is not vented to the outside of the structure in an approved
manner, and which is not supplied with sufficient air to continuously support
the combustion of the fuel. All heating devices shall be constructed,
installed, and operated in such a manner as to minimize accidental burns.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.060) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO THE SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE OF
PARTS OF DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   No person shall occupy as owner, occupant, or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does
not comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every foundation, roof, floor, exterior and interior wall, ceiling,
inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance thereto, shall be
safe to use and capable of supporting the loads that normal use may cause to be
placed thereon; and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair. Every
inside and outside stair or step shall have uniform risers and uniform treads.
   (B)   Every foundation, roof and exterior wall, door, skylight, and window
shall be reasonablely weather-tight, water-tight, and damp-free; and shall be
kept in sound condition and good repair. Floors, interior walls, and ceilings
shall be sound and in good repair. All exterior wood surfaces, other than
decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by paint
which is not lead-based paint or by other protective covering or treatment.
Walls shall be capable of affording privacy for the occupants.
   (C)   Every premises shall be graded, drained, free of standing water, and
maintained in a clean, sanitary, and safe condition.
   (D)   Unless other provisions are made, gutters, leaders, and down-spouts
shall be provided and maintained in good working condition as to provide proper
drainage of storm water.
   (E)   Every window, exterior door and hatchway, or similar device shall be
so constructed to exclude insects during that portion of the year when there is
a need for protection against mosquitoes, flies, and other flying insects.
   (F)   Every dwelling, multiple dwelling, rooming house or accessory
structure and the premises on which located shall be maintained in a rat-free
and rat-proof condition.
      (1)   All openings in the exterior walls, foundations, basements, ground
or first floors and roofs which have a half-inch diameter or more opening shall
be rat-proofed in an approved manner if they are within 48 inches of the
existing exterior ground level immediately below such openings, or if they may
be reached by rats from the ground by climbing unguarded pipes, wires,
cornices, stairs, roofs, and other items such as trees or vines or by
burrowing.
      (2)   All windows located at or near ground level used or intended to be
used for ventilation, all other openings located at or near ground level, and
all exterior doorways which might provide an entry for rats, shall be supplied
with adequate screens or such other devices as will effectively prevent the
entrance or rats into the structure.
      (3)   All sewers, pipes, drains, or conduits and openings around such
pipes and conduits shall be constructed to prevent the ingress or egress of
rats to or from a building.
      (4)   Interior floors of basements, cellars, and other areas in contact
with the soil shall be rat-proofed in an approved manner.
      (5)   Any materials used for rat-proofing shall be acceptable to the
Housing Authority.
   (G)   Accessory structures present or provided by the owner, agent, or
tenant occupant on the premises of a dwelling shall be structurally sound, and
be maintained in good repair and free of insects and rats, or such structures
shall be removed from the premises. The exterior of such structures shall be
made weather resistant through the use of decay-resistant materials or the use
of lead-free paint or other preservatives.
   (H)   Every plumbing fixture and all water and waste pipes shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition.
   (I)   Every water closet compartment, bathroom, and kitchen floor surface
shall be constructed and maintained so as to permit such floor to be easily
kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (J)   Every plumbing fixture and pipe, every chimney, flue, and smoke pipe
and every other facility, piece of equipment, or utility which is present in a
dwelling or dwelling unit, or which is required under this chapter, shall be
constructed and installed in conformance with the appropriate statutes,
ordinances, and regulations of this city.
   (K)   No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment, or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed from
or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling or dwelling unit let
or occupied by him or her; except for such temporary interruption as may be
necessary while actual repairs or alterations are in progress, or during
temporary emergencies when discontinuance of service is approved by the
appropriate authority.
   (L)   All construction and materials, ways and means of egress, and
installation and use of equipment shall conform with the appropriate statutes,
ordinances, and regulations dealing with fire protection of this city.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.070) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 MAXIMUM DENSITY, MINIMUM SPACE USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy or let to be occupied any dwelling or dwelling unit,
for the purpose of living therein, unless there is compliance with the
requirements of this section.
   (A)   The maximum occupancy of any dwelling unit shall not exceed the lesser
value of the following two requirements:
      (1)   For the first occupant there shall be at least 150 square feet of
floor space and there shall be at least 100 square feet of floor space for
every additional occupant thereof; the floor space to be calculated on the
basis of total habitable room area; or
      (2)   A total number of persons shall be less than two times the number
of habitable rooms within the dwelling unit.
   (B)   Not more than one family, plus two occupants unrelated to the family,
except for guests or domestic employees, shall occupy a dwelling unit unless a
license for a rooming house has been granted by the appropriate authority.
   (C)   The ceiling height of any habitable room shall be at least seven feet;
except that in any habitable room under a sloping ceiling at least one-half of
the floor area shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet, and the
floor area of that part of such a room where the ceiling height is less than
five feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area in computing the
total floor area of the room for the purpose of determining the maximum
permissible occupancy.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.080) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING UNITS, DORMITORIES, DORMITORY ROOMS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a rooming house or dormitory, or shall occupy
or let to another for occupancy and dormitory room and/or rooming unit in any
rooming house or dormitory, which is not in compliance with the appropriate
provisions of every section of this chapter.
   (B)   No owner or other person shall occupy or let to another person any
rooming unit or dormitory room unless it is clean and sanitary, and complies
with all applicable requirements of the city.
      (1)   No person shall operate a rooming house unless he or she holds a
valid rooming license issued by the Housing Authority in the name of the
operator and for the specific dwelling or dwelling unit. The operator shall
apply to the Housing Authority upon compliance by the operator with the
applicable provisions of this chapter and of any rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto. This license shall be displayed in a conspicuous place within
the rooming house at all times. No such license shall be transferable. Every
person holding such a permit shall give notice in writing to the Housing
Authority within 24 hours after having sold, transferred, given away, or
otherwise disposed of ownership of, interest in, or control of any rooming
house. Such notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding
to the ownership or control of such rooming house. Every rooming house license
shall expire at the end of one year following its date of issuance, unless
sooner suspended or revoked as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or
shower, properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the Housing
Authority and in good working condition, shall be supplied for each six persons
or fraction thereof residing within a rooming house, including members of the
operator’s family wherever they share the use of the said facilities provided:
         (a)   In a rooming house where rooms are let only to males, flush
urinals may be substituted for not more than one-half the required number or
water closets, and provided that there shall be at least one water closet;
         (b)   All such facilities shall be so located within the dwelling as
to reasonably accessible to all persons sharing such facilities and from a
common hall or passageway and provided that such facilities are not located
more than one floor above or below the rooming unit or units served; and
         (c)   That every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be
supplied with heated and unheated water under pressure at all times.
      (3)   The following provision shall apply in all rooming houses and
dormitories.
         (a)   Cooking in dormitory rooms and rooming units is prohibited.
         (b)   Communal cooking and dining facilities in a rooming house are
prohibited, except as approved by the Housing Authority in writing.
         (c)   All food service and dining facilities provided in a rooming
house or dormitory for the occupants of same shall comply with applicable food
service legislation.
         (d)   Access doors to rooming units, dormitory rooms shall have
operating locks to ensure privacy.
      (4)   Unless exempted by the Housing Authority in writing, the operator
of every rooming house shall change supplied bed linen and towels therein at
least once a week, and prior to the letting of any room to any occupant, and
the operator shall be responsible for the maintenance of all supplied bedding
in a clean and sanitary manner.
      (5)   (a)   Every rooming unit shall comply with all requirements of this
chapter pertaining to a habitable room.
         (b)   Every rooming unit occupied by one person shall contain at least
110 square feet of floor space and every rooming unit occupied by more than one
person shall contain at least 90 square feet for each occupant thereof;
further, every rooming unit shall contain also at least four square feet of
closet space for each occupant with at least an unobstructed height of five
feet. If the closet space is lacking in whole or in part, space of the amount
of the deficiency shall be subtracted from the area of the habitable room space
when determining occupancy.
      (6)   Every rooming unit shall have immediate access to two or more
approved means of egress, appropriately marked, leasing to safe and open space
at ground level or as required by the appropriate statutes, ordinances, and
regulations of this city.
      (7)   Structurally sound handrails shall be provided on any steps
containing four risers or more. Porches, patios, and/or balconies located more
than three feet higher than the adjacent areas shall have structurally sound
protective guardrails or handrails.
      (8)   Access to or egress from each rooming unit shall be provided
without passing through any other rooming units.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.090) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10 ADOPTION OF PLANS OF INSPECTION BY THE HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Housing Authority is hereby authorized and directed to develop and
adopt plans for the inspection of dwelling units subject to the provisions of
this chapter, including:
      (1)   A plan for the periodic inspection of multiple dwellings and
rooming houses governing the licensing of the operation of such dwellings; and
      (2)   A plan for the systematic inspection of dwelling units contained
within the city, as may from time to time be designated by the Housing
Authority.
   (B)   Before making inspections pursuant to a plan authorized in division
(A)(2) above, the Housing Authority shall advise the public of the plan to
inspect.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.100) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -)
§ 150.11 INSPECTIONS: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Housing Authority shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and
is hereby authorized and directed to make inspections pursuant to one or more
of the plans for inspection authorized by §
150.10(A)(1) or in response to a complaint if the Housing Authority finds that
reasonable cause exists to believe that a violation of this chapter or any
rules and regulations pursuant thereto has been or is being committed.
   (B)   The Housing Authority is hereby authorized to enter and inspect
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. all dwellings, dwelling units,
rooming houses, rooming units, dormitories, and dormitory rooms subject to the
provisions of this chapter for the purpose of determining whether there is
compliance with its provisions.
   (C)   The Housing Authority is hereby authorized to inspect the premises
surrounding dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units,
dormitories, and dormitory rooms subject to this chapter for the purpose of
determining whether there is compliance with its provisions.
   (D)   The Housing Authority and the owner, occupant, or other person in
charge of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, rooming house, or dormitory
room subject to this chapter may agree to an inspection by appointment at a
time other than the hours provided in division (B) above.
   (E)   Not less than five days prior to an inspection, the Housing Authority
shall notify the owner, occupant, or other person in charge of a dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming unit, rooming house, or dormitory room of the date and
time the Housing Authority will inspect the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
unit, rooming house, or dormitory room and of the specific areas and facilities
to be inspected.
   (F)   The owner, occupant, or other person in charge of a dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming unit, rooming house, or dormitory room upon presentation of
proper identification by the Housing Authority, a copy of any relevant plan of
inspection pursuant to which entry is sought, and a schedule of the specific
areas and facilities to be inspected shall give the Housing Authority entry and
free access to every part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, or
dormitory room or to the premises surrounding any of these.
   (G)   The Housing Authority shall keep confidential all evidence, exclusive
of the inspection record, which it may discover or obtain in the course of an
inspection made pursuant to this section and such evidence shall be considered
privileged.
   (H)   (1)   If any owner, occupant, or other person in charge of a dwelling,
dwelling unit, or rooming unit, or of a multiple dwelling or a rooming house
subject to licensing under §
150.12 fails or refuses to permit free access and entry to the structure or
premises under his or her control, or any part thereof, with respect to which
an inspections authorized by this chapter is sought to be made, the Housing
Authority may, upon a showing that probable cause exists for the inspection
requirements of this section with respect to such dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming unit, multiple dwelling, or rooming house, petition and obtain such
order from a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   When required, the Housing Authority shall obtain the necessary
order from the court to conduct the inspection.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.110) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -)
§ 150.12 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Housing Authority is hereby authorized to make, adopt, revise, and
amend procedural rules and regulations as it deems necessary to administer the
proposes of this chapter.
   (B)   The Housing Authority shall have the power to grant written waivers of
any of the requirements contained in this code upon application by any owner or
occupant or agent thereof.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.120) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -)
§ 150.13 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Housing Authority determines that any dwelling, dwelling
unit, or rooming unit, or the premises surrounding any of these, fails to meet
the requirements set forth in this chapter or in applicable rules and
regulations issued pursuant thereto, the Housing Authority, in accordance with
existing legislation, shall issue a notice setting forth the alleged failures,
and advising the owner, occupant, operator, or agent that such failures must be
corrected.
   (B)   This notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Set forth the alleged violations of this chapter or of applicable
rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto;
      (3)   Describe the dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit where the
violations are alleged to exist or to have been committed. Such written notice
shall specify an appropriate or acceptable method of correction;
      (4)   Specify a specific date for the correction of any violation
alleged; and
      (5)   Be served upon the owner, occupant, operator, or agent of the
dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit personally or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to the owner, occupant, operator, or agent.
If one or more persons to whom such notice is addressed cannot be found after
diligent effort to do so, service may be made upon such persons by posting the
notice in or about the dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit described in
the notice, or by causing such notice to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation for a period of two consecutive weeks.
   (C)   At the end of the period of time allowed for the correction of any
violation alleged, the Housing Authority shall reinspect the dwelling, dwelling
unit, or rooming unit described in the notice.
   (D)   If, upon reinspection, the violations are determined by the Housing
Authority not to have been corrected, the Housing Authority shall initiate
legal proceedings for the immediate correction of the alleged violations or
shall order the dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit vacated within 30 days
or both.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.130) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -)
§ 150.14 COLLECTION AND DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION.
   The Housing Authority is hereby authorized to collect and disseminate
information concerning techniques of maintenance, repair, and sanitation in
housing, and concerning the requirements of this chapter and applicable rules
and regulations issued pursuant thereto.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.150) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -)
§ 150.15 APPEALS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Housing Code Appeals Board consisting of the
Common Council of the city. The Mayor of the city shall designate the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Housing Code Appeals Board. When feasible,
minority representation on the Housing Code Appeals Board shall be provided.
   (B)   The Housing Code Appeals Board shall adopt reasonable rules and
regulations for the conduct of its meetings and investigations and shall render
all decisions and findings in writing to the Mayor and all decisions and
findings shall be made part of the public record.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by a notice of the Housing Authority issued in
connection with any alleged violation of this chapter, or of any applicable
rule or regulation issued pursuant thereto, or by any order requiring
demolition may apply first to the Housing Authority for an administrative
conference for reconsideration of such notice or order, provided, such
application is made within 30 days after the date the notice or order was
issued. Within ten days after the filing of such application, the Housing
Authority shall notify the applicant of the date, place, and time of the
administrative conference for reconsideration and the administrative conference
for reconsideration shall be held not more than 15 days after such application
is filed. Within seven days after the administrative conference for
reconsideration is held, the Housing Authority shall prepare a written summary
of the conference and state the decision reached, which summary and statement
shall become a part of the public record and a copy of which shall be mailed to
the applicant by United States mail, first class, postage prepaid.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by the decision reached by the Housing Authority
pursuant to division (C) above, may apply to the Housing Code Appeals Board
within 17 days after the date of the administrative conference for
reconsideration.
   (E)   Within ten days after the filing of an appeal with the Housing Code
Appeals Board, the Housing Code Appeals Board shall notify the appellant of the
date, place, and time of the hearing of the appeal and such hearing shall be no
more than 15 days after the appeal if filed. Within seven days after the appeal
hearing, the Housing Code Appeals Board shall prepare a written summary of the
appeal hearing and state the decision reached, which summary and statement
shall become a part of the public record and a copy of which shall be mailed to
the appellant by the United States mail, first class, postage prepaid.
   (F)   At such a hearing the applicant shall be given an opportunity to be
heard and to show cause why such notice or order should be modified, extended,
withdrawn, or a variance granted.
   (G)   The Housing Code Appeals Board, by a majority vote, may sustain,
modify, or withdraw the notice or order. In granting an extension or variance
of any notice or order, the Appeals Board shall observe the following
conditions:
      (1)   The Housing Code Appeals Board may grant an extension of time for
the compliance of any order or notice for not more than 18 months subject to
appropriate conditions and provided that the Appeals Board makes specific
findings of fact based on evidence relating to the following:
         (a)   That there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
in carrying out the strict letter of any notice or order; or
         (b)   That such an extension is in harmony with the general purpose
and intent of this chapter in securing the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
      (2)   The Housing Code Appeals Board may grant a variance in a specific
case and from a specific provision of this chapter subject to appropriate
conditions and provided the Appeals Board makes specific findings of fact based
on evidence related to the following:
         (a)   That there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
in carrying out the strict letter of any notice or order;
         (b)   That the effect of the application of the provisions would be
arbitrary in the specific case;
         (c)   That an extension would not constitute an appropriate remedy for
these practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships and this arbitrary
effect; or
         (d)   That such variance is in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this chapter in securing the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.160) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -)
§ 150.16 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Whenever in the judgment of the Housing Authority an emergency exists
which requires immediate action to protect the public health, safety, or
welfare, an order may be issued without a hearing or appeal directing the
owner, occupant, operator, or agent to take such action as is appropriate to
correct or abate the emergency. If circumstances warrant, the Housing Authority
may act to correct or abate the emergency.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, operator, or agent shall be granted a hearing
before the Housing Code Appeals Board on the matter upon his, her, or its
request as soon as practicable, but such appeal shall in no case stay the
abatement or correction of such emergency.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.170) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner, occupant, operator, or agent of a dwelling, dwelling unit, or
rooming unit who has received an order or notice of an alleged violation of
this chapter commits a Class C infraction for each day each alleged violation
continues after expiration of the specified reasonable consideration period;
provided, that no such penalty shall be applicable while a reconsideration,
hearing, or appeal to a court of competent jurisdiction is pending in the
matter.
(2003 Code, § 15.04.180) (Ord. 1977-10, passed - -)
CHAPTER 151: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Title and scope
   
151.02   Adoption by reference
   
151.03   Unsafe Building Fund
   
151.04   Administration
   
151.05   Public nuisance
   
151.06   Definitions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Mobile homes, tiny homes, campers and Amish cabins used as dwellings, see
Ch. 152
§ 151.01 TITLE AND SCOPE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Unsafe Building Law of the city and the
requirements herein apply throughout the municipal boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 151.02 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   All provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through I.C. 36-7-9-28 are hereby
incorporated by reference as the Unsafe Building Law of the city. All
proceedings within the city for the inspection, repair, and removal of unsafe
buildings shall be governed by the state code and the provisions of this
chapter. In the event the provisions of this chapter conflict with the state
code, then the provisions of the state code shall control. The building
standards and rules of the state’s Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, as set forth in the state code and in the state administrative
code, are adopted as the building standards and rules for matters considered
under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 151.03 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund hereby is established in the operating budget of the
city in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 151.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The city’s Fire Department is hereby authorized to administer the city’s
Unsafe Building Law and to order the repair or removal of unsafe buildings and
structures in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 151.05 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All building, structures, or portions thereof which are determined after
inspection by the enforcement authority to be unsafe, as defined in this
chapter, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 151.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The City of Jasonville Enforcement Authority.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Fire Chief of the city’s Fire Department is the
ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY, as defined by I.C. 36-7-9, and is authorized to engage
inspection officers and other designees and/or agents to assist in the
administration of this chapter.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Board of Works of the city acting as the primary
hearing authority, as defined by I.C. 36-7-9.
   SEALING A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Padlocking the entries to the building or
structure and posting the building or structure with a notice that forbids
entry to the building or structure and securing all other entry points to the
building or structure from entry as prescribed by the Enforcement Authority.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a present possessory
interest, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser. The definition of
SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST in I.C. 36-7-9 is hereby adopted and incorporated
by reference.
   UNSAFE BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure that has any or all
of the conditions or defects hereinafter described; provided, that such
conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or
safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or any other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, or loose or otherwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, members, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or property damage;
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has racked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such a building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundations; or
         (e)   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure or any portion
thereof is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting member, enclosing or
outside walls, or coverage;
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake, or flood or has become so dilapidated so as to become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   Freely accessible to person for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the county, or of any law or ordinance of the state or the county relating
to the condition, location, or structure of buildings;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-
supporting portion less than 50% or in any supporting part, member, or portion
less than 66% of the:
         (a)   Strength;
         (b)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
         (c)   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height, and occupancy
in the same location.
      (15)   Whenever a building structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
sanitation facilities, or otherwise is determined by the county’s Health
Department to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition
that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, or lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined by the Fire Department to
be a fire hazard;
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on the
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof as an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that, after having been served with notice pursuant to
this chapter and pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9, fails to complete the ordered repair,
removal, or abatement within the time ordered by the Enforcement Authority
shall be fined consistent with I.C. 36-7-9-28, which fine shall be in addition
to any other costs and expenses for which the person or entity may be liable
pursuant to this chapter and I.C. 36-7-9.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOMES, TINY HOMES, CAMPERS AND
AMISH CABINS USED AS DWELLINGS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Placement of mobile homes and tiny homes; procedure
   
152.04   Prohibition on campers and Amish cabins as permanent dwellings
   
152.05   General requirements
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unsafe buildings, see
Ch. 151
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   Although the city regulates unsafe structures and blighted properties
through its adoption of I.C. 36-7-9 (the “Unsafe Building Law”), portable
dwellings, such as mobile homes and other prefabricated structures, present a
unique challenge for the city in that an already-dilapidated and/or unsafe
mobile home or prefabricated structure may be placed or relocated in the city,
immediately resulting in the violation of the city’s Unsafe Building Law or
other applicable city ordinances. It is the typical experience of the city that
stick-built residential structures gradually become dilapidated and unsafe over
time, providing the city with opportunities to address the conditions of the
properties before they require significant and expensive remedial work. The
purpose of this chapter shall be to prevent the location and placement of
mobile homes and prefabricated structures within the city that would, upon
their placement, immediately violate the Unsafe Building Law or other relevant
city ordinances.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMISH CABIN. A prefabricated inhabitable cabin, shed or a similar shelter/
dwelling assembled either elsewhere or on-site from a pre-manufactured kit,
commonly marketed as an “Amish Cabin,” or any similar and comparable
prefabricated inhabitable cabin, shed or shelter/dwelling assembled from a pre-
manufactured kit, not situated on a permanent foundation, as defined herein.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety.
   CAMPER. A motor vehicle and/or trailer with facilities for sleeping and
cooking, originally manufactured or converted for the purpose of recreational
camping and travel
   MOBILE HOME. A dwelling, including the equipment sold as a part of the
dwelling, that:
      (1)   Is factory assembled;
      (2)   Is transportable;
      (3)   Is intended for year-round occupancy;
      (4)   Is intended for transportation on its own chassis; and
      (5)   Is not supported by a fully enclosed permanent foundation; or
      (6)   Any dwelling meeting the definition of MOBILE HOME found in I.C.
16-41-27-4.
   MOBILE HOME PARK, STATE REGULATED. An area of land on which at least five
mobile homes, other than mobile homes on permanent foundations, are harbored on
temporary supports for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Meets the following conditions:
      (1)   Transfers loads imposed by a mobile home to the earth;
      (2)   Has a lower surface placed below the frost line;
      (3)   Is attached to the mobile home in such a way to secure the mobile
home to the foundation that the mobile home becomes a part of the real
property; and
      (4)   Is assessed for taxation as an improvement to the property.
   STRUCTURE. Any type of STRUCTURE subject to the regulations set forth
herein, including mobile homes, tiny homes and Amish cabins.
   TINY HOME.  A prefabricated dwelling with no permanent foundation that does
not typically exceed 550 square feet, commonly marketed as a TINY HOME or TINY
HOUSE.
(Ord. 2001-3, passed 3-27-2001; Ord. 2018-4, passed 4-9-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Mobile home park, similar provisions, see I.C. 16-41-27-5
§ 152.03 PLACEMENT OF MOBILE HOMES AND TINY HOMES; PROCEDURE.
   No person shall place or locate a mobile home or tiny home within the
corporate limits of the city without first obtaining the necessary approvals
and permits as provided by this section.
   (A)   Mobile home park, state regulated. Licensed and regulated by the state
as provided in I.C. 16-41-27.
   (B)   Individual mobile homes (one in an area of land). Any person desiring
to place a mobile home or tiny home within the city shall first make
application to the Board, on a form established by that Board. The application
will be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A plot plan showing the exact dimensions of the parcel or lot;
      (2)   A description and dimensions of the structure to be located
thereon;
      (3)   A drawing showing the exact location of the structure on the lot;
and
      (4)   Color photographs of all sides of the structure. The photographs
are to be of such quality as to enable the viewer to judge the condition and
appearance of the structure. These photographs are to be supplied by the
applicant at the applicant’s expense.
   (C)   Application. Upon review of the application and determination that the
application is in proper form and in compliance with division (B) above, the
Board shall set the application for a public hearing in accordance with
division (D) below.
   (D)   Public hearing. The Board shall schedule a public meeting to review
and consider the application for approval, and give notice to the applicant of
the hearing. The Board will also have a notice published in the local newspaper
one time, at least ten days before the hearing. The published notice shall
contain the name of the applicant, the exact location of the parcel or lot
where the structure is to be placed, and the date, time and place of the
hearing. The applicant shall pay the cost of publishing the notice in
accordance with this division.
   (E)   Permit. If the Board approves the application, the applicant shall be
given a permit after payment of any publication fees due the city.
   (F)   Considerations. The Board shall consider the following factors in
deciding whether or not to approve the application:
      (1)   The size, appearance, age and condition of the structure;
      (2)   Whether or not the owners of the structure will be its occupants;
      (3)   Whether or not the owners of the lot or parcel upon which the
structure will be placed will be its occupants;
      (4)   The effect of the structure on property values in the area;
      (5)   The number of persons occupying the structure;
      (6)   Whether or not the placement of the structure is temporary or
permanent; and
      (7)   Any other facts relevant to safety or other concerns regarding the
application.
   (G)   Livable condition. If the structure is not in a livable/inhabitable
condition at the time application is made, the application shall be denied.
   (H)   Right to appeal to Common Council. The decision of the Board as to
whether to approve the placement of the structure shall be final, unless the
applicant or another interested person requests an appeal of the Board’s
decision within 30 days of the public hearing at which the Board’s decision is
rendered. If such an appeal is made, the Common Council shall place the matter
on the agenda for its next public meeting. The Council shall consider the
factors set forth in division (F) above.
(Ord. 2001-3, passed 3-27-2001; Ord. 2002-2, passed 5-13-2002; Ord. 2018-4,
passed 4-9-2018) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 PROHIBITION ON CAMPERS AND AMISH CABINS AS PERMANENT DWELLINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place or locate a camper or Amish cabin within the
corporate limits of the city for use as a structure for a period of more than
60 days, unless such camper or Amish cabin is placed within a mobile home park
licensed and regulated by the state as provided in I.C. § 16-41-27.
   (B)   The city shall not provide water, trash pickup, gas or sewer service
to any camper or Amish cabin located within the city, except for any camper or
Amish cabin situated within a mobile home park licensed and regulated by the
state and in compliance with all relevant laws and regulation governing such
mobile home parks.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to campers or Amish cabins inhabited as a
dwelling prior to the effective date of this chapter. However, campers and
Amish Cabins that are subject to this chapter shall be relocated within the
city or replaced with another camper or Amish cabin.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 152.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall enforce the standards of health and sanitation
prescribed for mobile homes and mobile home parks by the state.
   (B)   Within 60 days after they have been placed onto the location or site,
all mobile homes shall have an approved perimeter enclosure or skirting
installed.
   (C)   The owner of any mobile home or land containing a mobile home shall
further comply with all state laws pertaining to mobile homes and any
additional requirements as established by the local Board and approved by the
Common Council. This includes, but is not limited to, the inspection,
condemnation, repair or removal provisions of the city’s unsafe building, weeds
and neglected property, or garbage and rubbish codes.
   (D)   If the structure that was approved for placement is transferred from
the original applicant, and the transferee wishes the mobile home to remain
within the corporate limits of the city, a new approval and permit must be
obtained.
(Ord. 2001-3, passed 3-27-2001; Ord. 2002-2, passed 5-13-2002; Ord. 2018-4,
passed 4-9-2018)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of this chapter may be levied at the amount of
$50. Each day the mobile home, tiny home, camper or Amish cabin is in violation
is a separate violation. The violating owner will be penalized at a cost of $50
per day until the structure is removed or otherwise brought into compliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 2001-3, passed 3-27-2001; Ord. 2018-4, passed 4-9-2018)
CHAPTER 153: IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF DITCHES
Section
   
153.01   Duties and violations
   
153.02   Notice; failure to comply
   
153.03   Duty of police
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DUTIES AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If a drainage pipe is placed in a ditch (e.g., for a driveway to cross
over), it shall be the property owner’s responsibility to purchase and install
said pipe. The city may, at its discretion, assist in the installation of said
pipe.
   (B)   (1)   The drainage pipe shall be of adequate size and material to
allow for the proper flow of water through the ditch; this determination shall
be made by the Mayor or a representative of the city Street Department
appointed by the Mayor. Under no circumstances, however, shall the drainage
pipe be less than ten inches in diameter. In instances where drainage pipes of
less than ten inches were installed by property owners prior to May 8, 1989,
the date this chapter took effect, the Mayor may elect to waive the requirement
of a ten-inch minimum pipe. This can be done in instances where the existing
pipe is of sufficient size to allow for proper water flow.
      (2)   All drainage pipes installed in ditches shall be adequately
maintained by the property owner as to allow for the proper flow of water
through the ditch. If said pipe(s) should reach a stage of deterioration so as
to not allow the proper flow of water, it shall be replaced at the property
owner’s expense. Again, these determinations shall be made by the Mayor or a
representative of the Street Department appointed by the Mayor.
   (C)   All ditches shall be kept mowed and all debris (leaves, sticks,
rubbish, and the like) shall be removed so as to allow for the proper flow of
water through the ditch.
(2003 Code, § 15.20.010) (Ord. 1989-4, passed 5-8-1989) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 NOTICE; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   When any person is in violation of this chapter, notice of such
violation may be served on such person by U.S. registered, or certified mail,
return receipt requested. The person so notified shall have seven days after
the date the notice was mailed to comply with this chapter. If, upon the
expiration of the said seven-day period, the person given notice has not
complied with this chapter, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
order the city’s Street Department (or another party, as may be designated by
the Mayor) to cause such conditions as is violating the term(s) of this chapter
to be corrected.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the city’s Street Department (or another party
as designated by the Mayor) to comply with any order of the Chief of Police
issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   The Street Department shall keep an accurate account of the expenses
incurred hereunder, which shall be paid from the City Treasury upon the voucher
of the Street Department. Said expenses shall be paid within 30 days and such
payment shall be turned in to the City Treasury.
   (D)   Where said violations are corrected by a party designated by the
Mayor, and such party is other than the city’s Street Department, persons
violating this chapter shall be responsible to said party for payment of work
done. Said party shall furnish an estimate of costs to person violating this
chapter before performing any duties. Penalties may still be assessed and made
payable to the city.
(2003 Code, § 15.20.020) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 DUTY OF POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, upon being notified by the
Mayor or a representative of the Street Department appointed by the Mayor, to
immediately notify by U.S. registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, any person who is the owner of such property to comply with the
provisions of this chapter within seven days from the date the notice is
mailed.
(2003 Code, § 15.20.030)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined $15 for
the first offense, $20 for the second offense, and $25 for the third and each
succeeding offense. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 15.20.040) (Ord. 1989-4, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 154: SIGNAGE
Section
Public Announcement Signage
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Restrictions
   
154.03   Community Announcement Board
 
   
154.99   Penalty
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT SIGNAGE
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY ANNOUNCEMENT BOARD. A public announcement hoard maintained by the
city for the use and enjoyment] of the citizens of the city, which is located
outside the front entrance of the Jasonville Heritage Museum on South Lawton
Street, Jasonville, Indiana.
   PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT. An announcement intended for the general public from a
private person(s), entity or; organization (including for-profit and non-profit
organizations), including but not limited to notice of a garage sale or yard
sale, a “for sale” sign pertaining to real estate or personal property, notice
of a lost person, pet or property, or notification of an upcoming event.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real estate or personal property owned by the city, as
well as any area within a right-of-way or easement of the city, Greene County,
Indiana or the State of Indiana.
   SIGNAGE. Any visual graphic, advertisement or notice, whether consisting of
written language, symbols, pictures or otherwise conveying or otherwise
communicating information to the public, including attention-decking items such
as balloons, streamers or reflective material.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 154.02 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No signage regarding a public announcement may be placed on any public
property, including trees, light poles, telephone poles, utility poles, street
signs, or city-owned buildings or structures. This prohibition shall not apply
to commercial billboards situated within public property, but pursuant to an
existing and valid right-of-way or easement grant. Each violation of this
section shall be deemed a separate offense subject to a separate fine.
   (B)   All signage promoting a specific event, such as a garage sale or yard
sale, shall not be posted more than 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
event and must be removed within 12 hours of completion of the event. Each
violation of this section shall be deemed a separate offense subject to a
separate fine.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 154.03 COMMUN1TY ANNOUNCEMENT BOARD.
   (A)   Citizens of the city shall have the right to post notice of public
announcements, including appropriate signage, on the Community Announcement
Board, which shall be maintained by the city.
   (B)   All signage promoting a specific event, such as a garage sale or yard
sale, will be subject to removal as of 24 hours after completion of the
scheduled event. Should citizens desire to retain their signage, they should
ensure that such signage is removed from the Community Announcement Board
within 24 hours of the completion of the scheduled event.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty for violation of this chapter may be levied at; die amount
of $50. Each day that signage is posted on public property in violation of this
chapter shall be deemed a separate violation, and the; violating person or
entity will be penalized at a cost of $50 per day per violation.
   (B)   The placement of signage on public property in violation of this
chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and therefore subject to
applicable nuisance laws. In addition to any other relief provided by this
chapter, the City Attorney may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for
an injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation of this chapter.
The application for relief may include seeking a temporary injunction and
permanent injunction.
   (C)   Legal fees for prosecution of violations of this chapter will be
assessed against the violator in the amount of $100 per day. Additional fees
and costs will be levied against the violator in amounts established by the law
of the State of Indiana in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 4-10-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   REAL ESTATE
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND FRANCHISES
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
      
IV.   VACATIONS
      
V.   NON-CODE
TABLE I: REAL ESTATE
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.   Date Passed Description
Deed            -           Jasonville public library - Griffin Realty
                            Corporation
Deed            -           Edith Fleming to Jasonville, Lee Workman, and Pearl
                            Workman about the library
Deed            -           Albert Janasik Sr. and Balbina Kamasol and
                            Catherine Cleveland
1923-17         -           Purchase of lands for park
1924-12         7-21-1924   Land for sewer system
Deed            12-11-1925  Jacob W. Little to the city
1941-71         12-15-1941  Purchase of water plant
Quit-Claim Deed 1-19-1942   Jasonville water company
Warranty Deed   1-15-1957   Metronices, incorporated
Warranty Deed   2-29-1957   Metronices, incorporated
Res. -          9-8-1976    Releasing any claim on parking lot
1979-5          10-1-1979   Sewage land purchase
1981-7          4-13-1981   Land development option rights
1983-6          6- -1983    Sale of land next to sewage plant
1984-2          1-18-1984   Sale of land next to sewage plant
1984-4          5-14-1984   Sale of sewage treatment plant
Res. 1990-3     6-11-1990   Acquire real estate for athletic field
Res. 1990-4     9-10-1990   Acquire real estate for athletic field
Res. 1998-1     1-12-1998   Sale of land to American Legion
Res. 1999-12    10-18-1999  Intent to purchase lots on Sycamore St.
Res. 2008-13    12-22-2008  Approval of the water system utility plan
-               12-29-2011  Water line easement
Res. 2016-6     3-14-2016   Transfer of real estate
Res. 2021-13    10-12-2021  Sale of real estate on South Meridian Street
                           
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
21    -      Telephone franchise
24    -      Telephone franchise
36    -      Franchise
1907- -      Water contract
94
1930- 11-10- Gas company
10    1930
1930- 6-20-  Gas company
16    1931
1933- 1-31-  Water company
27    1933
1933- 5-1-   Northern Indiana Power Co.
30    1933
1934- 12-24- Water company
49    1934
1935- 9-6-   Water company
51    1935
1936- 5-25-  Street lighting
53    1936
1940- 12-16- Street lighting
67    1940
-     4-25-  Purchase Water company
      1941
1941- 5-24-  Water company
69    1941
1941- 12-15- Water company
71    1941
1946- 5-20-  Street lights
88    1946
1946- 11-18- Street lights
94    1946
1954- 1-18-  Sell water to Hymera
127   1954
-     1-1-   PSC Electric - for traffic
      1955
-     3-3-   Parking meters
      1956
1963- 3-4-   Texas Gas Transmission Corp.
173   1963
1966- 12-21- PSC Electric - overhead ornamental street lighting
196   1966
1967- 10-16- PSC - overhead street lighting
208   1967
1967- 12-18- PSC - water pumping system
210   1967
-     4-14-  Sidewalks
      1971
1980- 3-16-  Cable TV
4     1981
1981- 6-8-   Cable TV
4     1981
-     9-8-   Lease ground to Cable TV
      1981
1982- 5-10-  PSI - electric service
3     1982
Res.  8-12-
1985- 1985   Waggoner, Irwin, Scheele - code
12
1903- 4-7-   Telephone franchise
11    2003
2003- 12-8-  Accepting the replat of lots in Richland Addition and Frey’s First
8     2003   Addition
-     8-12-  Wastewater revolving loan program
      2004
-     8-1-   Natural gas supply agreement
      2007
Res.  10-9-
2007- 2007   Approving the Tennergy Natural Gas Supply agreement
8
1908- 2-24-  Telephone franchise
104   2008
-     3-29-  Electric lights
      2009
1909- 9-1-   Electric lights
119   2009
1909- 9-1-   Waterworks franchise
120   2009
1911- 2-27-  Electric
131   2011
-     12-29- Debt subordination agreement
      2011
Res.  12-29-
2011- 2011   Authorization to accept easement
15
Res.  12-29-
2011- 2011   Authorization to accept debt subordination agreement
19
-     1-1-   Agreement for location of wireless equipment
      2012
Res.  10-15-
2012- 2012   Transfer of the cable franchise
8
Res.  11-13- Authorizing the purchase of natural gas from PEFA, Inc., and
2018- 2018   amending the natural gas supply agreement
11
Res.  12-12-
2022- 2022   Awarding the city's solid waste collection contract
15
            
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1927-10       8-1-1927    Disannexation
1982-2        4-12-1982   Annexation - Don A. Miller
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             - -         Alley - Perkins 2nd Addition
-             - -         Lot #1 - Freemans Addition
Affidavit     7-6-1970    Wetinights 2nd Addition to Thorlton’s 2nd Addition
1982-4        5-10-1982   Portion of Harvey Street
1988-2        4-11-1988   Portion of Alley in Fry’s First Addition
1988-10       11-14-1988  Portion of Alley in Blackledge and Wetnight’s
                          Addition
1997-1        1-13-1997   Alley in Thorlton’s First Addition
1997-3        4-14-1997   Alley in Bonham’s Addition
1997-8        8-25-1997   Alley in Mahlon Neal Third Addition
1999-1        4-12-1999   Alley in Fry’s and Richland Addition
1999-5        7-12-1999   Alley in Letsinger Coal Co. Addition
1999-11       10-18-1999  Alley in Bonham’s Addition
2000-2        4-10-2000   Alley in Richland 2 Addition
2003-7        11-10-2003  Vacating alley in Highland’s Second Addition
2008-4        6-2-2008    Vacating portions of certain alleyways and roadways
2009-4        2-9-2009    Vacation of part of Old Southeast Washington Street
2019-09       9-9-2019    Vacating a platted alley
2020-8        8-10-2020   Vacating a portion of McKinley Street and portions of
                          certain platted alleys
2021-11       8-9-2021    Vacating portions of certain platted alleys
                         
 
TABLE V: NON-CODE
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.   Date Passed Description
1903-1          1-6-1903    Liquor permits
2               1-6-1903    Marshal’s salary
3               1-6-1903    Salaries
5               1-27-1903   Establish fire district
6               2-3-1903    Plats required
7               2-3-1903    Common Council rules
8               2-4-1903    Establish Board of Health
9               3-17-1903   Animals
10              - -         Street improvements
12              - -         Street improvements
13              4-29-1903   Create office of Street Commissioner
14              - -         Street improvement
15              - -         Street improvement
16              - -         Street improvement
17              - -         -
18              11-10-1903  Curfew
19              - -         Street improvement
20              - -         Street improvement
1904-22         5-31-1904   Health ordinance
23              - -         Street fair
25              8-2-1904    Fire limits
26              - -         Speed limits
27              - -         No record
28              - -         Street improvement
28 1-2          - -         Bond
29 1-2          - -         Bond
30              - -         Temporary loan
31 through 35   - -         Correcting ordinances
37 through 70   - -         No ordinance passed or numbered
72              - -         Street improvement
72 1-2          - -         Street fair
1905-73         10-3-1905   Voting places
74              10-10-1905  Fire limits
741-2           - -         Abolish school corporation
75              - -         Bond
76              - -         Bond
77              - -         Bond
1906-78         1-16-1906   Contractors liens
79              - -         Dogs
80              5-21-1906   Fire Department
81              5-21-1906   Electric lights
82              - -         Refund of bonds
83              - -         Abolish school corporation
84              - -         Alley
85              - -         Tax levy
86              - -         Street fair
87              - -         Bond
88              10-8-1906   Sewers
88 1-2          - -         Bond
1907-89         2-4-1907    Railroads
90              3-20-1907   Taxation and tagging dogs
91              3-20-1907   License for shows and peddler
92              4-8-1907    Public show
93              4-15-1907   License for hack
93 1-2          4-15-1907   Duties of Clerk and Marshal
95              9-23-1907   Appropriation
96 through 99   - -         Bonds
100             11-11-1907  Business and residence boundaries
101             12-23-1907  Salary for school trustees
1908-102        1-13-1908   Appropriation
103             2-17-1908   Salary
105             3-9-1908    Dogs
106             9-14-1908   Appropriation
107             - -         Tax levy
108             - -         Bond
109             - -         Bond
110             - -         Bond
111             - -         Bond
112             - -         Bond
1909-113        1-8-1909    Spitting on sidewalks
114             - -         Bond
115             1-11-1909   Appropriation
116             - -         Amends #103
117             4-19-1909   Electric stock
118             9-1-1909    Bond
121             - -         Tax levy
122             - -         Bond
123             - -         Appropriation
1910-124        3-7-1910    Modifies electric contract
125             4-4-1910    Bond
127             6-27-1910   Regulates peddlers and shows
1911-128        11-11-1911  Railroads
129             11-11-1911  Fire limits
130             - -         Tax levy
132             3-13-1911   Liquor sales
133             4-17-1911   Appropriation
134             4-24-1911   Salary
135             - -         Modifies water franchise
136             - -         Tax levy
137             9-11-1911   Salary
1912-1          5-6-1912    Bonds
2               5-9-1912    Salary
3               6-10-1912   Corporate seal
5               6-24-1912   Cleaning privy vaults
6               7-8-1912    Salary
7               7-15-1912   Storm sewers
8               7-29-1912   Appropriation
9               8-12-1912   Curfew
10              8-20-1912   Bond
11              9-9-1912    Tax levy
12              11-4-1912   Bond
14              11-21-1912  Appropriation
15              - -         Appropriation
1913-16         4-21-1913   Appropriation
17              5-19-1913   Salary
18              6-2-1913    Prohibits loitering
19              6-16-1913   Railroads
20              7-14-1913   Salary
22              9-28-1913   Tax levy
23              10-20-1913  Appropriation
24              11-6-1913   Appropriation
25              12-29-1913  Amends #127
1914-26         1-26-1914   Salary
23              3-23-1914   Railroads
-               9-9-1914    Tax levy
-               9-7-1915    Tax levy
-               9-5-1916    Tax levy
-               - -1916     Tax levy
-               9-5-1917    Tax levy
1918-1          2-4-1918    Salary
2               5-6-1918    Parking
3               - -         Extension of Main Street
1919-10         5-5-1919    Pool and billiard rooms
1922-1          3-7-1922    Appropriation
2               3-7-1922    Salary
3               3-27-1922   Burning leaves and rubbish
6               5-15-1922   Appropriation
7               6-24-1922   Appropriation
8               7-3-1922    Repeals #4
9               7-3-1922    Appropriation
11              7-20-1922   Railroad watchman
12              7-20-1922   Railroad watchman
13              7-20-1922   Railroad watchman
13 1-2          8-15-1921   Impeachment for city officials
14              7-20-1922   Railroad watchman
15              7-20-1922   Railroad watchman
16              7-20-1922   Railroad watchman
Res. 17         7-20-1922   Railroad watchman
18              7-20-1922   Railroad watchman
19              7-20-1922   Railroad watchman
20              9-4-1922    Tax levy
21              9-5-1922    Salary
22              10-2-1922   Appropriation
23              11-26-1922  Create office of Inspector of Buildings
25              11-6-1922   Appropriation
26              11-7-1922   Appropriation
27              12-4-1922   Salary
28              12-4-1922   Salary
29              12-18-1922  Salary
30              12-18-1922  Weeds
31              12-18-1922  Appropriation
1923-1          1-2-1923    Appropriation
2               1-15-1923   Appropriation
3               1-5-1923    Cleaning toilets and privies
5               2- -1923    Fire limits
6               3- -1923    Salary
6A              4-2-1923    Salary
7               4-3-1923    Appropriation
8               5-21-1923   Cleaning vaults
9               5-21-1923   Appropriation
11              6-18-1923   Salary
12              6-18-1923   Appropriation
13              6-18-1923   Plans and specifications for waterworks
14              7-2-1923    Building repairs
15              7-18-1923   Appropriation
16              7-16-1923   Amends #1922-4
18              7-23-1923   Temporary loan
19              7-26-1923   Appropriation
20              7-23-1923   Purchase of fire truck
20A             9-1-1923    Tax levy
21              9-1-1923    Appropriation
22              10-1-1923   Appropriation
23              10-15-1923  Appropriation
24              10-15-1923  Salary
24A             11-5-1923   Appropriation
25              11-5-1923   Appropriation
26              11-10-1923  Loan
27              11-19-1923  Appropriation
28              12-3-1923   Appropriation
29              12-6-1923   Dogs
30              12-17-1923  Appropriation
31              12-28-1923  Appropriation
2               1-9-1924    Loan
1924-1          1-27-1924   Appropriation
3               2-4-1924    Salary
5               3-3-1924    Appropriation
6               3-3-1924    Repeals #1924-3
7               3-3-1924    Salary
8               5-19-1924   City boundaries
9               5-23-1924   Appropriation
10              6-16-1924   Appropriation
11              6-16-1924   Repeals parts of #1922-4
13              6-4-1924    Appropriation
14              9-1-1924    Tax levy
15              10-20-1924  Temporary loan
16              12-1-1924   Sale of municipal bonds
1925-1          1-5-1925    Appropriation
2               5-4-1925    Sewer bonds
3               9-7-1925    Tax levy
4               11-2-1925   Appropriation
5               12-21-1925  Appropriation
6               12-21-1925  Park Board
1926-1          1-18-1926   Salary
1925-7          1-22-1926   Appropriation
2               2-15-1926   Temporary loan
3               3-22-1926   Dogs
4               3-22-1926   Salary
5               4-5-1926    Plumbing
6               4-5-1926    Appropriation
7               4-3-1926    Appropriation
8               5-17-1926   Bond
10              7-19-1926   Appropriation
12              9-10-1926   Tax levy and appropriation
13              10- -1926   Fire hydrants and rates
14              11-15-1926  Temporary loan
1927-1          1-17-1927   Appropriation
2               2-7-1927    Appropriation
3               3-21-1927   Street Department truck purchase
4               4-5-1927    Temporary loan
5               4-5-1927    Appropriation
6               4-5-1927    Sale of personnel property
7               4-18-1927   Sale of personnel property
8               5-2-1927    Appropriation
9               6-20-1927   Appropriation
11              9-6-1927    Tax levy
12              10-3-1927   Utility pole location
13              10-17-1927  Purchase of tractor
14              11-21-1927  Transfer
15              12-5-1927   Salary
16              12-5-1927   Salary
17              12-5-1927   Salary
18              12-19-1927  Appropriation
1928-1          1-16-1928   Salary
2               2-20-1928   Temporary loan
3               4-3-1928    Street lights
4               4-16-1928   Temporary loan
Res. 1          5-1-1928    Street improvement
5               8-20-1928   Temporary loan
6               9-10-1928   Tax levy
7               10-1-1928   Temporary loan
8               12-31-1928  Appropriation
1929-1          2-4-1929    Temporary loan
2               5-13-1929   Temporary loan
3               9-3-1929    Tax levy
4               9-16-1929   Temporary loan
Res. 1          6-17-1929   Street opening
5               12-16-1929  Appropriation
6               12-20-1929  Appropriation
1930-1          2-3-1930    Temporary loan
2               - -         Building repair
3               4-21-1930   Temporary loan
4               8-11-1930   Temporary loan
6               9-2-1930    Tax levy
8               9-2-1930    Tax levy
7               9-15-1930   Temporary loan
11              11-10-1930  Appropriation
12              12- -1930   Appropriation
13              12-22-1930  Appropriation
1930-14         2-2-1931    Temporary loan
1931-15         4-2-1931    Transfer
17              9-8-1931    Tax levy
1932-20         2-1-1932    Sale of personal properly
21              2-1-1932    Purchase of truck
22              9-19-1932   Tax levy
23              11-21-1932  Salary
1933-24         1-2-1933    Appropriation
25              1-2-1933    Appropriation
26              1-16-1933   Loan
28              2-6-1933    Establish office of Water Department
29              2-8-1933    Establish Water Works Fund
32              6-19-1933   Terms and conditions of purchase of water company
35              9-4-1933    Tax levy
36              9-4-1933    Salary
39              12-8-1933   Appropriation
Res. 1934-40    3-5-1934    Water rates
Res. 41         3-5-1934    Bond
42              3-26-1934   Salary
Res. 44         5-21-1934   Appointment of appraiser
45              6-4-1934    Water budget
46              8-20-1934   Bond
47              9-10-1934   Tax levy
1935-52         8-20-1935   Tax levy
1936-54         9-7-1936    Tax levy
1937-55         2-1-1937    Bond
56              8-30-1937   Tax levy
1938-57         3-21-1938   Salary
58              9-1-1938    Tax levy
59              12-5-1938   Bond
1939-60         4-17-1939   Appropriation
61              7-17-1939   Bond refund
62              8-21-1939   Bond sale
63              9-5-1939    Salary
64              9-5-1939    Tax levy
1940-65         9-3-1940    Tax levy
66              9-3-1940    Appropriation
1941-70         9-2-1941    Appropriation
-               9-2-1941    Tax levy
72              12-15-1941  Waterworks bond
1942-74         9-8-1942    Tax levy
74              9-8-1942    Appropriation
1943-           8-30-1943   Tax levy
76              8-30-1943   Salary
1944-77         8-28-1944   Tax levy
78              8-28-1944   Salary
1945-79         5-7-1945    Street improvement
80              5-8-1945    Salary
81              5-8-1945    Salary
82              7-16-1945   Appropriation
83              8-6-1945    Appropriation
84              8-27-1945   Tax levy
85              8-28-1945   Salary
87              - -         Day light savings
1946-89         8-5-1946    Repeals #87
90              8-5-1946    Appropriation Code, § 1.04.010
91              8-26-1946   Salary
92              8-26-1946   Tax levy
93              8-26-1946   Appropriation
96              3-28-1947   Salary
1947-97         6-16-1947   Appropriation
98              6-16-1947   Streets
99              8-26-1947   Tax levy
100             8-26-1947   Tax levy
1948-103        8-2-1948    Appropriation
104             8-23-1948   Salary
105             8-23-1948   Tax levy
106             9-24-1948   Appropriation
107             11-15-1948  Appointment of appraiser
108             12-20-1948  Order of sale
Res. 109        12-20-1948  Appointment of appraiser
1949-109        5-16-1949   Appropriation
Res. 110        6-20-1949   Water rates
111             8-22-1949   Salary
112             8-22-1949   Tax levy
1950-113        8-21-1949   Salary
114             8-21-1950   Tax levy
115             11-3-1950   Appropriation
1951-116        8-27-1951   Salary
117             8-27-1951   Tax levy
118             8-1-1952    Tax levy
1952-123        12-1-1952   Water rates
Res. 1954-128   5-17-1954   Petition traffic signals
1956-136        8-27-1956   Appropriation
137             8-27-1956   Tax levy
1957-138        4-15-1957   Appropriation
Res. -          5-15-1957   Temporary loan
138A            6-18-1957   Appropriation
139             8-5-1957    Appropriation
140             8-26-1957   Appropriation
141             8-26-1957   Tax levy
1958-           6-2-1958    Appropriation
146             8-25-1958   Appropriation
147             10-6-1958   Appropriation
1959-148        3-23-1959   Salary
150             8-17-1959   Appropriation
151             8-17-1959   Appropriation
152             8-17-1959   Sewers
153             8-31-1959   Appropriation
1960-155        3-7-1960    Appropriation
156             8-29-1960   Appropriation
157             8-29-1960   Tax levy
158             9-6-1960    Salary
1961-160        8-18-1961   Appropriation
161             8-28-1961   Tax levy
Res. -          12-18-1961  School district to connect sewers
163             2-5-1962    Appropriation
1962-164        1-2-1962    Salary
Res. -          5-15-1962   Grant application
166             7-30-1962   Salary
167             8-27-1962   Appropriation
168             8-27-1962   Tax levy
169             8-27-1962   Appropriation
Res. -          - -         Establish depository
1963-174        4-1-1963    Salary
175             6-3-1963    Appropriation
-               7-1-1963    Salary
177             7-15-1963   Appropriation
178             8-26-1963   Appropriation
179             8-26-1963   Tax levy
180             10-7-1963   Appropriation
Res. -          10-7-1963   Temporary loan
Res. -          10-7-1963   Salary
Res. -          11-18-1963  Temporary loan
Res. 1964-      4-20-1964   Transfer
181             6-22-1964   Transfer
182             7-6-1964    Appropriation
183             7-20-1964   Board of Health
185             8-3-1964    Transfer
-               11-2-1964   Appropriation
Res. 1965-      2-15-1965   Transfer
-               3-1-1965    Appropriation
187             5-17-1965   Regulating dogs
-               6-7-1965    Temporary loan
-               6-21-1965   Appropriation
188             8-16-1965   Animals
Res. -          9-7-1965    Authorizing state to widen street
189             10-18-1965  Salary
Res. -          10-21-1965  Transfer
Res. -          11-15-1965  Appropriation
1966-190        1-3-1966    Appropriation
191             3-21-1966   Salary
-               3-21-1966   Appropriation
Res. -          6-6-1966    Transfer
Res. -          6-20-1966   Transfer
192             7-5-1966    Appropriation
Res. -          7-18-1966   Temporary salary
-               8-1-1966    Salary
Res. -          9-6-1966    Transfer
193             9-6-1966    Appropriation
Res. -          10-17-1966  Transfer
194             11-7-1966   Appropriation
195             12-12-1966  Temporary loan
Res. -          12-30-1966  Transfer
Res. -          12-30-1966  Transfer
1967-197        2-6-1967    Appropriation
Res. -          2-20-1967   Transfer
Res. -          3-6-1967    Transfer
Res. -          4-3-1967    Transfer
198             4-3-1967    Salary
200             4-17-1967   Salary
201             4-17-1967   Appropriation
Res. -          5-15-1967   Transfer
202             6-6-1967    Appropriation
203             6-6-1967    Salary
204             8-7-1967    Salary
205             8-7-1967    Appropriation
Res. -          9-5-1967    Transfer
207             10-2-1967   Appropriation
209             11-6-1967   Salary
Res. -          11-6-1967   Transfer
1986-2          3-3-1986    Referendum on continuing jurisdiction of Public
                            Service Commission
1987-1          3-9-1987    Referendum on continuing jurisdiction of Public
                            Service Commission
1989-1          5-8-1989    Referendum on continuing jurisdiction of Utility
                            Regulatory Commission
Res. 1991-2     5-2-1991    Voters to choose a district candidate and one at-
                            large candidate
Res. 1997-14    11-10-1997  Borrow funds for new fire truck
Res. 1998-3     3-9-1998    Authorizes loan application for housing rehab
1998-4          5-11-1998   Authorizes housing development fund application
1998-8          7-13-1998   Authorizes application for recycling trailer
1998-12         8-10-1998   Approves sewer extension to cp. rail property
1998-           10-19-1998  Approves “Make Hanna Field Our Home” proposal
Res. 1999-2     5-10-1999   Formation of Revolving Loan Fund Board
1999-4          11-8-1999   Designating approved management agency
1999-10         9-13-1999   Approve sewer extension into Hanna Field
1999-14         10-19-1999  Inter-local agreement on Howesville Ditch
Res. 1999-15    11-8-1999   Mayor as authorized loan applicant
Res. 2000-1     3-6-2001    Acceptance of preliminary engineering report
Res. 2001-6     5-14-2001   Opposing NFPA proposed standards 1710 and 1720
Res. 2001-11    11-11-2001  Financial software vendor
Res. 2002-4     7-8-2002    Application for grant
2004-7          8-9-2004    Street naming
2010-6          5-10-2010   Street and alley maintenance
2016-18         10-14-2016  Appropriations and tax rates
2016-19         11-1-2016   Salary and job classification
2016-20         11-1-2016   Salary and job classification
2016-21         12-12-2016  Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
Res. 2017-1     3-13-2017   Rainy Day Fund transfer to Local Road and Bridge
                            Fund
Res. 2017-2     3-13-2017   Transfer the Local Option Income Tax Special
                            Distribution Fund to the Local Road and Bridge Fund
Res. 2017-5     5-8-2017    Additional appropriations
Res. 2017-8     5-8-2017    Application submission and local match commitment
2017-9          8-14-2017   Authorizing the issuance of Waterworks Revenue
                            Bonds
Res. 2017-11    9-11-2017   Requesting the transfer of funds
2017-12         10-10-2017  Appropriations and tax rates
2017-16         11-1-2017   Salary and job classification
2017-17         11-1-2017   Salary and job classification
Res. 2017-19    12-28-2017  Funds transfer
2018-1          2-12-2018   Public Safety Tax Fund
2018-2          3-12-2018   Additional appropriation
Res. 2018-5     5-14-2018   Additional appropriation
Res. 2018-6     7-9-2018    Approval of the wastewater and stormwater plan
2018-7          7-9-2018    Adopting ordinance for the S-1 Supplement
2018-8          10-9-2018   Appropriations and tax rates
2018-9          10-9-2018   Salary and job classification
2018-10         10-15-2018  Salary and job classification
Amended 2018-10 12-28-2018  Salary and job classification
Res. 2018-13    12-28-2018  Funds transfer
2019-1          2-11-2019   Gas utilities alliance intergovernmental
                            corporation agreement
Res. 2019-3     4-8-2019    Authorizing the use of surplus bond proceeds
2019-5          7-8-2019    Adopting ordinance for S-2 supplement
Res. 2019-8     8-12-2019   Funds transfer
2019-9          8-12-2019   Salary and job classification
2019-10         10-15-2019  Appropriations and tax rates
Res. 2019-14    12-9-2019   Additional appropriations
2019-10         12-30-2019  Salary and job classification
2019-11         12-30-2019  Salary and job classification
Res. 2019-15    12-30-2019  Funds transfer
Res. 2019-16    12-30-2019  Funds transfer
2020-3          3-26-2020   Salary and job classification
Res. 2020-5     3-26-2020   Waiving certain procedures during disaster
                            emergency, COVID-19
Res. 2020-6     3-26-2020   Waiving certain procedures during disaster
                            emergency, COVID-19
2020-7          6-8-2020    Waiver of utility collection charges during public
                            health emergency, COVID-19
2020-10         10-13-2020  Salary and job classification
Res. 2020-11    10-13-2020  Funds transfer
Res. 2020-12    10-13-2020  Reimbursement of public health and public safety
                            payroll costs with CARES Act funding
2020-13         10-13-2020  Appropriations and tax rates
Res. 2020-14    11-9-2020   Additional appropriations
Res. 2020-16    12-16-2020  Funds transfer
Amended 2019-11 12-29-2020  Salary and job classification
Amended 2020-9  12-29-2020  Salary and job classification
2020-17         12-29-2020  Timely deposits during the current health emergency
Res. 2020-18    12-29-2020  Funds transfer
Res. 2021-1     3-8-2021    Funds transfer
Res. 2021-2     3-8-2021    Application submission and local match commitment
Res. 2021-3     3-8-2021    Authorized loan applicant representative
Res. 2021-4     3-8-2021    Acceptance of preliminary engineering report
Res. 2021-06    4-21-2021   Planning efforts and recent stimulus allocations
2021-7          6-14-2021   Additional appropriations
Res. 2021-8     6-14-2021   Application submission and local match commitment
2021-12         9-13-2021   Additional appropriations
2021-14         10-12-2021  Appropriations and tax rates
2021-16         10-12-2021  Salary and job classification
Amended 2021-15 11-8-2021   Salary and job classification
2021-17         11-8-202    Additional appropriations
Res. 2021-18    11-8-2021   Funds transfer
Res. 2021-19    11-8-2021   Adopting the Title IX implementation plan
Res. 2021-20    11-8-2021   Application submission and local match commitment
2022-2          2-14-2022   Salary and job classification
Res. 2022-3     3-14-2022   Appointing authorized representative
Res. 2022-4     3-14-2022   Approving PER and submitting to the State Revolving
                            Fund Loan Program
2022-05         6-1-2022    Authorizing the issuance of Sewage Works Revenue
                            Bonds
2022-6          8-8-2022    Funds transfer
2022-7          8-8-2022    Salary and job classification
2022-8          8-8-2022    Salary and job classification
2022-8          8-8-2022    Salary and job classification
2022-10         9-12-2022   Additional appropriations
Res. 2022-9     9-12-2022   Appropriation reduction
2022-11         10-11-2022  Appropriations and tax rates
2022-12         10-11-2022  Salary and job classification
2022-13         10-11-2022  Salary and job classification
2022-14         12-12-2022  Additional appropriations
Res. 2022-16    12-29-2022  Funds transfer
2022-17         12-29-2022  Encumbrance of appropriations
                           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 2003 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                 Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.12
1-1-1-8                    10.06
1-1-4-5                    10.05
1-1-5-1                    10.11
1-1-6-1                    10.08
1-1-7-1                    91.34
5-3-1                      35.021,
                           73.12
5-11-10-1                  35.049
5-11-10-2                  35.048
5-13-5-5                   33.09
5-14-3-8                   33.10
5-14-3-8(h)                35.004
6-1.1-17                   35.031
6-3.5-7-18.3               35.031
6-3.6-2-14                 35.033
Title 7.1                  110.01
8-1.5-4-1                  32.26
8-1.5-4-2                  32.26
8-23-4                     93.31
9-13-2-69.7                73.01
9-13-2-175                 73.01
9-18-12                    93.27
9-21-1-3                   73.02
9-21-8-41                  70.15
9-21-9-2                   73.03
9-21-9-4                   73.03
9-22-1                     93.15
9-22-1-1 through 9-22-1-32 93.01,
                           93.28
9-22-1-3                   93.38
9-22-1-8                   93.34
9-22-1-19                  93.34
9-22-1-30                  93.40
9-24-1-7                   73.03
9-26-2-3                   35.004,
                           35.025
10-13-3-30                 35.004
10-13-3-31                 35.004
13-11-1-1 et seq.          53.01
14-16-1                    73.02
                           73.01,
14-16-1 et seq.            73.05,
                           73.06
14-16-1-9                  73.06
Title 15                   91.30
16-41-27                   152.03,
                           152.04
16-41-27-4                 152.02
16-41-27-5                 152.02
19-6-1-2                   32.25
22-9-1-4 et seq.           92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.           92.01
22-9.5-2-2                 92.02
22-9.5-2-3                 92.02
22-9.5-2-4                 92.02
22-9.5-2-8                 92.02
22-9.5-2-9                 92.02
22-9.5-2-11                92.02
22-9.5-2-13                92.02
22-9.5-3                   92.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.           92.10
22-9.5-4-8                 92.11
22-9.5-5                   92.02
22-9.5-5-1                 92.03
22-9.5-6                   92.02,
                           92.11
24-14-5                    93.37
33-24                      33.01
33-36-2                    34.01,
                           34.05
33-36-2-3                  34.05
33-36-3                    34.05
33-36-3-6                  34.05
35-47-2-3                  35.023
36-1-3-2                   31.10
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-5-4                   33.42
36-1-8-5                   35.031
36-1-8-5.1(b)              35.031
36-1-8-11.5                33.09
36-1-10.5                  33.01
                           33.35,
36-1-20.2                  33.36,
                           33.38,
                           33.42
                           33.35,
36-1-21                    33.37,
                           33.38,
                           33.42
36-4-6-4                   31.02
36-4-6-5                   31.02,
                           31.03
36-4-6-5(b)                31.02
36-4-6-11                  33.39
36-4-8-2                   35.047
36-4-8-3                   35.046
36-4-8-5                   35.048
36-4-9-5                   32.23
36-4-9-8                   32.23
36-5-2-2                   10.15
36-5-2-9.4                 33.39
36-7                       33.01
36-7-4                     32.22
                           151.03,
36-7-9                     151.06,
                           151.99,
                           152.01
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 151.02
36-7-9-28                  151.99
36-7-10.1-4                91.37
36-8-6-9.8(4)              33.01
36-8-14                    35.021,
                           35.022
36-8-14-2                  35.021
36-8-14-3                  35.020,
                           35.022
36-9                       33.01
36-9-15.5                  35.030
36-9-17                    35.020
36-9-17-5(b)               35.020
36-9-23                    54.08
36-9-23-32                 54.07
36-9-23-35                 54.07
36-9-36                    35.020
36-9-37                    35.020
36-9-37-8.5                35.020
36-10                      33.01
36-10-3                    32.20
                           
 
REFERENCES TO 2003 CODE
2003 Code Section Code Section
2003 Code Section Code Section
1.04.010          10.05
1.04.060          10.17
2.04.010          30.01
2.04.020          30.01
2.04.030          30.01
2.04.040          30.01
2.08.010          31.01
2.08.020          31.02
2.08.030          31.04
2.08.040          31.05
2.08.041          31.06
2.08.050          31.07
2.08.060          31.08
2.12.010          30.02
2.12.020          30.02
2.12.030          30.02
2.12.040          30.02
2.16.010          32.01
2.16.020          32.02
2.16.030          32.03
2.16.040          32.04
2.16.050          32.05
2.16.060          32.06
2.20.010          30.03
2.20.020          30.03
2.20.030          30.03
2.24.010          32.20
2.24.020          32.21
2.24.030          32.22
2.24.040          32.23
2.24.050          32.24
2.24.070          32.25
2.24.080          32.26
2.28.010          31.09
2.28.020          31.10
2.32.010          31.03
2.32.020          31.03
2.32.030          31.03
2.40.010          31.11
2.40.020          31.11
2.40.030          31.11
2.44.010          34.01
2.44.020          34.02
2.44.030          34.03
2.44.040          34.04
2.44.050          34.05
2.48.010          33.02
2.48.020          33.02
3.04.010          35.020
3.04.020          35.020
3.04.030          35.020
3.04.040          35.020
3.04.050          35.020
3.04.060          35.020
3.04.070          35.020
3.06.010          35.021
3.06.020          35.021
3.06.030          35.021
3.06.040          35.021
3.06.050          35.021
3.06.060          35.021
3.08.010          35.022
3.08.020          35.022
3.12.010          35.045
3.12.020          35.046
3.12.030          35.047
3.12.040          35.048
3.12.050          35.049
3.12.060          35.050
3.16.010          35.023
3.16.020          35.023
3.16.030          35.023
3.16.040          35.023
3.20.010          35.024
3.24.020          35.025
3.28.010          35.026
3.32.010          34.05
3.36.010          33.03
3.36.020          33.03
3.38.010          35.027
3.38.020          35.027
3.40.010          35.032
3.40.020          35.002
3.52.010          35.029
3.56.010          35.003
5.20.010          110.01
7.04.010          11.01
7.04.020          11.02
8.04.010          91.15
8.04.020          91.16
8.04.030          91.17
8.04.040          91.18
8.04.050          91.99
8.08.010          91.01,
                  91.02
8.08.020          91.99
8.12.010          91.50
8.12.020          91.51
8.12.030          91.52
8.12.040          91.99
8.16.010          91.04
8.16.020          91.99
8.20.010          71.01
8.20.020          71.02
8.20.030          71.03
8.20.040          71.99
8.24.010          75.99
8.24.020          75.99
9.08.010          131.01
9.08.020          131.02
9.08.030          131.99
9.16.010          91.03
9.16.020          91.03
9.16.030          91.99
10.04.010         70.01
10.04.020         70.02
10.04.030         70.03
10.04.040         70.99
10.12.040         71.99
10.16.010         75.99
10.16.020         75.99
10.16.022         75.99
10.16.030         75.99
10.16.040         75.99
10.20.010         73.99
10.20.020         73.99
10.20.030         73.99
10.24.010         72.01
10.24.020         75.99
10.24.030         72.02
10.28.010         75.99
10.28.020         75.99
10.32.010         72.15
10.32.020         72.16
10.32.030         72.17
11.04.010         75.01
11.04.020         75.99
12.04.010         94.01
12.04.020         94.01
12.08.010         94.02
12.08.020         94.02
12.08.030         94.99
12.12.010         51.13
12.16.010         75.99
12.16.020         75.99
12.20.010         94.03
12.20.020         94.04
12.20.030         94.99
12.24.010         94.05
12.24.020         94.05
13.04.010         50.01,
                  70.01
13.04.010         50.01
13.04.020         50.02
13.04.030         50.03
13.04.040         50.04
13.04.050         50.05
13.04.060         50.06
13.04.070         50.07
13.04.080         50.08
13.04.090         50.09
13.04.100         50.10
13.04.110         50.11
13.04.120         50.25
13.04.130         50.26
13.04.140         50.27
13.04.160         50.29
13.04.170         50.30
13.04.180         50.57
13.04.190         50.31
13.04.200         50.32
13.04.210         50.33
13.04.220         50.34
13.04.230         50.35
13.04.240         50.36
13.04.250         50.37
13.04.260         50.38
13.04.280         50.39
13.04.290         50.50
13.04.300         50.51
13.04.310         50.52
13.04.320         50.53
13.04.330         50.54
13.04.340         50.55
13.04.350         50.56
13.08.010         51.01
13.08.020         51.02
13.08.030         51.03
13.08.040         51.04
13.08.050         51.05
13.08.060         51.06
13.08.070         51.07
13.08.080         51.08
13.08.090         51.09
13.08.100         51.10
13.08.110         51.11
13.08.120         51.12
13.12.010         52.01
13.12.020         52.02
13.12.030         52.03
13.12.034         52.04
13.12.040         52.05
13.12.050         52.06
13.12.060         52.07
13.12.070         52.08
13.12.080         52.09
13.12.090         52.10
13.12.100         52.11
13.12.110         52.12
13.12.120         52.99
13.12.130         52.13
13.12.140         52.14
13.12.150         52.15
13.12.160         52.16
15.04.010         150.01
15.04.020         150.02
15.04.030         150.03
15.04.040         150.04
15.04.050         150.05
15.04.060         150.06
15.04.070         150.07
15.04.080         150.08
15.04.090         150.09
15.04.100         150.10
15.04.110         150.11
15.04.120         150.12
15.04.130         150.13
15.04.150         150.14
15.04.160         150.15
15.04.170         150.16
15.04.180         150.99
15.20.010         153.01
15.20.020         153.02
15.20.030         153.03
15.20.040         153.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         TSO Table V
–      - -         33.03
17       7-20-1922   TSO Table V
1        5-1-1928    TSO Table V
1        6-17-1929   TSO Table V
1934-40  3-5-1934    TSO Table V
41       3-5-1934    TSO Table V
44       5-21-1934   TSO Table V
109      12-20-1948  TSO Table V
110      6-20-1949   TSO Table V
1954-128 5-17-1954   TSO Table V
–      5-15-1957   TSO Table V
–      12-18-1961  TSO Table V
–      5-15-1962   TSO Table V
                     50.01 -
                     50.06,
176      6-21-1963   50.30 -
                     50.39,
                     50.57
–      10-7-1963   TSO Table V
–      10-7-1963   TSO Table V
–      11-18-1963  TSO Table V
1964-    4-20-1964   TSO Table V
1965-    2-15-1965   TSO Table V
–      9-7-1965    TSO Table V
–      10-21-1965  TSO Table V
–      11-15-1965  TSO Table V
–      6-6-1966    TSO Table V
–      6-20-1966   TSO Table V
–      7-18-1966   TSO Table V
–      7-18-1966   32.24
–      9-6-1966    TSO Table V
–      10-17-1966  TSO Table V
–      12-30-1966  TSO Table V
–      12-30-1966  TSO Table V
–      2-20-1967   TSO Table V
–      3-6-1967    TSO Table V
–      4-3-1967    TSO Table V
–      5-15-1967   TSO Table V
–      9-5-1967    TSO Table V
–      11-6-1967   TSO Table V
–      5-6-1969    31.07
–      10-7-1969   51.13
–      5-20-1974   32.03
1975     4-23-1975   52.16
–      9-8-1976    TSO Table I
–      12-23-1976  32.24
1980-17  9-8-1980    31.06
1981-69  4-21-1981   50.06
1985-5   4-8-1985    35.050
1985-12  8-12-1985   TSO Table II
1990-3   6-11-1990   TSO Table I
1990-4   9-10-1990   TSO Table I
1991-2   5-2-1991    TSO Table V
1996-2   6-10-1996   35.002
1997-9   8-25-1997   50.57
1997-14  11-10-1997  TSO Table V
1998-1   1-12-1998   TSO Table I
1998-3   3-9-1998    TSO Table V
1998-6   6-8-1998    75.99
1999-2   5-10-1999   TSO Table V
1999-12  10-18-1999  TSO Table I
1999-15  11-8-1999   TSO Table V
2001-1   1-26-2001   50.57
2001-2   2-26-2001   30.03
2000-1   3-6-2001    TSO Table V
2001-6   5-14-2001   TSO Table V
2001-11  11-11-2001  TSO Table V
2002-4   7-8-2002    TSO Table V
2006-2   4-10-2006   33.06
2007-8   10-9-2007   TSO Table II
2008-10  12-8-2008   33.05
2008-13  12-22-2008  TSO Table I
2010-2   2-8-2010     
–      12-29-2011  TSO Table I
2011-15  12-29-2011  TSO Table II
2011-19  12-29-2011  TSO Table II
2012-4   3-12-2012   51.14
2012-6   8-13-2012   33.35 –
                     33.42
2012-8   10-15-2012  TSO Table II
2016-6   3-14-2016   TSO Table I
2017-1   3-13-2017   TSO Table V
2017-2   3-13-2017   TSO Table V
2017-5   5-8-2017    TSO Table V
2017-8   5-8-2017    TSO Table V
2017-11  9-11-2017   TSO Table V
2017-19  12-28-2017  TSO Table V
2018-5   5-14-2018   TSO Table V
2018-6   7-9-2018    TSO Table V
2018-11  11-13-2018  TSO Table II
2018-13  12-28-2018  TSO Table V
2019-3   4-8-2019    TSO Table V
2019-8   8-12-3019   TSO Table V
2019-14  12-9-2019   TSO Table V
2019-15  12-30-2019  TSO Table V
2019-16  12-30-2019  TSO Table V
2020-5   3-26-2020   TSO Table V
2020-6   3-26-2020   TSO Table V
2020-11  10-13-2020  TSO Table V
2020-12  10-13-2020  TSO Table V
2020-14  11-9-2020   TSO Table V
2020-16  12-16-2020  TSO Table V
2020-18  12-29-2020  TSO Table V
2021-1   3-8-2021    TSO Table V
2021-2   3-8-2021    TSO Table V
2021-3   3-8-2021    TSO Table V
2021-4   3-8-2021    TSO Table V
2021-06  4-21-2021   TSO Table V
2021-8   6-14-2021   TSO Table V
2021-13  10-12-2021  TSO Table I
2021-18  11-8-2021   TSO Table V
2021-19  11-8-2021   TSO Table V
2021-20  11-8-2021   TSO Table V
2022-3   3-14-2022   TSO Table V
2022-4   3-14-2022   TSO Table V
2022-9   9-12-2022   TSO Table V
2022-15  12-12-2022  TSO Table V
2022-16  12-29-2022  TSO Table V
                    
 
REFERENCES OF ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Code Section
–             - -         TSO Table IV
–             - -         TSO Table IV
–             - -         32.03
–             - -         32.05
–             - -         70.99
–             - -         72.17
–             - -         73.99
–             - -         75.99
–             - -         75.99
2               - -         TSO Table V
3               - -         TSO Table V
10              - -         TSO Table V
12              - -         TSO Table V
14              - -         TSO Table V
15              - -         TSO Table V
15              - -         TSO Table V
16              - -         TSO Table V
17              - -         TSO Table V
19              - -         TSO Table V
20              - -         TSO Table V
21              - -         TSO Table II
23              - -         TSO Table V
24              - -         TSO Table II
26              - -         TSO Table V
27              - -         TSO Table V
28              - -         TSO Table V
28 1-2          - -         TSO Table V
29 1-2          - -         TSO Table V
30              - -         TSO Table V
31 through 35   - -         TSO Table V
36              - -         TSO Table II
37 through 70   - -         TSO Table V
72              - -         TSO Table V
72 1-2          - -         TSO Table V
75              - -         TSO Table V
76              - -         TSO Table V
77              - -         TSO Table V
79              - -         TSO Table V
82              - -         TSO Table V
83              - -         TSO Table V
84              - -         TSO Table V
85              - -         TSO Table V
86              - -         TSO Table V
87              - -         TSO Table V
88 1-2          - -         TSO Table V
96 through 99   - -         TSO Table V
107             - -         TSO Table V
108             - -         TSO Table V
109             - -         TSO Table V
110             - -         TSO Table V
111             - -         TSO Table V
112             - -         TSO Table V
114             - -         TSO Table V
116             - -         TSO Table V
121             - -         TSO Table V
122             - -         TSO Table V
123             - -         TSO Table V
130             - -         TSO Table V
135             - -         TSO Table V
136             - -         TSO Table V
741-2           - -         TSO Table V
1903-1          1-6-1903    TSO Table V
2               1-6-1903    TSO Table V
3               1-6-1903    TSO Table V
5               1-27-1903   TSO Table V
6               2-3-1903    TSO Table V
7               2-3-1903    TSO Table V
8               2-4-1903    TSO Table V
9               3-17-1903   TSO Table V
1903-11         4-7-1903    TSO Table II
13              4-29-1903   TSO Table V
18              11-10-1903  TSO Table V
1904-22         5-31-1904   TSO Table V
25              8-2-1904    TSO Table V
1905-73         10-3-1905   TSO Table V
74              10-10-1905  TSO Table V
1906-78         1-16-1906   TSO Table V
80              5-21-1906   TSO Table V
81              5-21-1906   TSO Table V
88              10-8-1906   TSO Table V
1907-89         2-4-1907    TSO Table V
90              3-20-1907   TSO Table V
91              3-20-1907   TSO Table V
92              4-8-1907    TSO Table V
93              4-15-1907   TSO Table V
93 1-2          4-15-1907   TSO Table V
1907-94         - -1907     TSO Table II
95              9-23-1907   TSO Table V
100             11-11-1907  TSO Table V
101             12-23-1907  TSO Table V
1908-102        1-13-1908   TSO Table V
103             2-17-1908   TSO Table V
1908-104        2-24-1908   TSO Table II
105             3-9-1908    TSO Table V
106             9-14-1908   TSO Table V
1909-113        1-8-1909    TSO Table V
115             1-11-1909   TSO Table V
117             4-19-1909   TSO Table V
118             9-1-1909    TSO Table V
1909-119        9-1-1909    TSO Table II
1909-120        9-1-1909    TSO Table II
1910-124        3-7-1910    TSO Table V
125             4-4-1910    TSO Table V
127             6-27-1910   TSO Table V
1911-131        2-27-1911   TSO Table II
132             3-13-1911   TSO Table V
133             4-17-1911   TSO Table V
134             4-24-1911   TSO Table V
137             9-11-1911   TSO Table V
1911-128        11-11-1911  TSO Table V
129             11-11-1911  TSO Table V
1912-1          5-6-1912    TSO Table V
2               5-9-1912    TSO Table V
3               6-10-1912   TSO Table V
4               6-10-1912   31.08
5               6-24-1912   TSO Table V
6               7-8-1912    TSO Table V
7               7-15-1912   TSO Table V
8               7-29-1912   TSO Table V
9               8-12-1912   TSO Table V
10              8-20-1912   TSO Table V
11              9-9-1912    TSO Table V
12              11-4-1912   TSO Table V
14              11-21-1912  TSO Table V
1913-16         4-21-1913   TSO Table V
17              5-19-1913   TSO Table V
18              6-2-1913    TSO Table V
19              6-16-1913   TSO Table V
20              7-14-1913   TSO Table V
21              7-28-1913   94.01
22              9-28-1913   TSO Table V
23              10-20-1913  TSO Table V
24              11-6-1913   TSO Table V
25              12-29-1913  TSO Table V
1914-26         1-26-1914   TSO Table V
23              3-23-1914   TSO Table V
–             9-9-1914    TSO Table V
–             9-7-1915    TSO Table V
–             - -1916     TSO Table V
–             9-5-1916    TSO Table V
–             9-5-1917    TSO Table V
1918-1          2-4-1918    TSO Table V
2               5-6-1918    TSO Table V
1919-10         5-5-1919    TSO Table V
13 1-2          8-15-1921   TSO Table V
2               3-7-1922    TSO Table V
1922-1          3-7-1922    TSO Table V
3               3-27-1922   TSO Table V
22-5            4-5-1922    72.01,
                            75.99
6               5-15-1922   TSO Table V
7               6-24-1922   TSO Table V
8               7-3-1922    TSO Table V
9               7-3-1922    TSO Table V
1922-10         7-17-1922   75.99
11              7-20-1922   TSO Table V
12              7-20-1922   TSO Table V
13              7-20-1922   TSO Table V
14              7-20-1922   TSO Table V
15              7-20-1922   TSO Table V
16              7-20-1922   TSO Table V
18              7-20-1922   TSO Table V
19              7-20-1922   TSO Table V
20              9-4-1922    TSO Table V
21              9-5-1922    TSO Table V
22              10-2-1922   TSO Table V
25              11-6-1922   TSO Table V
26              11-7-1922   TSO Table V
23              11-26-1922  TSO Table V
27              12-4-1922   TSO Table V
28              12-4-1922   TSO Table V
29              12-18-1922  TSO Table V
30              12-18-1922  TSO Table V
31              12-18-1922  TSO Table V
1923-1          1-2-1923    TSO Table V
3               1-5-1923    TSO Table V
2               1-15-1923   TSO Table V
5               2- -1923    TSO Table V
6               3- -1923    TSO Table V
6A              4-2-1923    TSO Table V
7               4-3-1923    TSO Table V
8               5-21-1923   TSO Table V
9               5-21-1923   TSO Table V
11              6-18-1923   TSO Table V
12              6-18-1923   TSO Table V
13              6-18-1923   TSO Table V
23-10           6-18-1923   91.99
14              7-2-1923    TSO Table V
16              7-16-1923   TSO Table V
15              7-18-1923   TSO Table V
1923-17         - -1923     TSO Table I
18              7-23-1923   TSO Table V
20              7-23-1923   TSO Table V
19              7-26-1923   TSO Table V
20A             9-1-1923    TSO Table V
21              9-1-1923    TSO Table V
22              10-1-1923   TSO Table V
23              10-15-1923  TSO Table V
24              10-15-1923  TSO Table V
24A             11-5-1923   TSO Table V
25              11-5-1923   TSO Table V
26              11-10-1923  TSO Table V
27              11-19-1923  TSO Table V
28              12-3-1923   TSO Table V
29              12-6-1923   TSO Table V
30              12-17-1923  TSO Table V
31              12-28-1923  TSO Table V
2               1-9-1924    TSO Table V
1924-1          1-27-1924   TSO Table V
3               2-4-1924    TSO Table V
24-4            2-18-1924   71.99
5               3-3-1924    TSO Table V
6               3-3-1924    TSO Table V
7               3-3-1924    TSO Table V
8               5-19-1924   TSO Table V
9               5-23-1924   TSO Table V
13              6-4-1924    TSO Table V
10              6-16-1924   TSO Table V
11              6-16-1924   TSO Table V
1924-12         7-21-1924   TSO Table I
14              9-1-1924    TSO Table V
15              10-20-1924  TSO Table V
16              12-1-1924   TSO Table V
1925-1          1-5-1925    TSO Table V
2               5-4-1925    TSO Table V
3               9-7-1925    TSO Table V
4               11-2-1925   TSO Table V
5               12-21-1925  TSO Table V
6               12-21-1925  TSO Table V
26-15           - -1926     Ch. 77 Schd. I
1926-1          1-18-1926   TSO Table V
1925-7          1-22-1926   TSO Table V
2               2-15-1926   TSO Table V
3               3-22-1926   TSO Table V
4               3-22-1926   TSO Table V
7               4-3-1926    TSO Table V
5               4-5-1926    TSO Table V
6               4-5-1926    TSO Table V
8               5-17-1926   TSO Table V
26-9            6-23-1926   75.99
10              7-19-1926   TSO Table V
1926-11         8-9-1926    94.99
12              9-10-1926   TSO Table V
13              10- -1926   TSO Table V
14              11-15-1926  TSO Table V
1927-1          1-17-1927   TSO Table V
2               2-7-1927    TSO Table V
3               3-21-1927   TSO Table V
4               4-5-1927    TSO Table V
5               4-5-1927    TSO Table V
6               4-5-1927    TSO Table V
7               4-18-1927   TSO Table V
8               5-2-1927    TSO Table V
9               6-20-1927   TSO Table V
1927-10         8-1-1927    TSO Table III
11              9-6-1927    TSO Table V
12              10-3-1927   TSO Table V
13              10-17-1927  TSO Table V
14              11-21-1927  TSO Table V
15              12-5-1927   TSO Table V
16              12-5-1927   TSO Table V
17              12-5-1927   TSO Table V
18              12-19-1927  TSO Table V
1928-1          1-16-1928   TSO Table V
2               2-20-1928   TSO Table V
3               4-3-1928    TSO Table V
4               4-16-1928   TSO Table V
5               8-20-1928   TSO Table V
6               9-10-1928   TSO Table V
7               10-1-1928   TSO Table V
8               12-31-1928  TSO Table V
1929-1          2-4-1929    TSO Table V
2               5-13-1929   TSO Table V
3               9-3-1929    TSO Table V
4               9-16-1929   TSO Table V
5               12-16-1929  TSO Table V
6               12-20-1929  TSO Table V
1930-1          2-3-1930    TSO Table V
3               4-21-1930   TSO Table V
4               8-11-1930   TSO Table V
6               9-2-1930    TSO Table V
8               9-2-1930    TSO Table V
7               9-15-1930   TSO Table V
11              11-10-1930  TSO Table V
1930-10         11-10-1930  TSO Table II
12              12- -1930   TSO Table V
13              12-22-1930  TSO Table V
1930-14         2-2-1931    TSO Table V
1931-15         4-2-1931    TSO Table V
1930-16         6-20-1931   TSO Table II
17              9-8-1931    TSO Table V
21              2-1-1932    TSO Table V
1932-20         2-1-1932    TSO Table V
22              9-19-1932   TSO Table V
23              11-21-1932  TSO Table V
25              1-2-1933    TSO Table V
1933-24         1-2-1933    TSO Table V
26              1-16-1933   TSO Table V
1933-27         1-31-1933   TSO Table II
28              2-6-1933    TSO Table V
29              2-8-1933    TSO Table V
1933-30         5-1-1933    TSO Table II
32              6-19-1933   TSO Table V
35              9-4-1933    TSO Table V
36              9-4-1933    TSO Table V
39              12-8-1933   TSO Table V
42              3-26-1934   TSO Table V
45              6-4-1934    TSO Table V
46              8-20-1934   TSO Table V
47              9-10-1934   TSO Table V
                            72.99,
48              11-19-1934  74.99,
                            Ch. 77 Schd. I
1934-49         12-24-1934  TSO Table II
50              5-6-1935    110.01
1935-52         8-20-1935   TSO Table V
1935-51         9-6-1935    TSO Table II
1936-53         5-25-1936   TSO Table II
1936-54         9-7-1936    TSO Table V
1937-55         2-1-1937    TSO Table V
56              8-30-1937   TSO Table V
1938-57         3-21-1938   TSO Table V
58              9-1-1938    TSO Table V
59              12-5-1938   TSO Table V
1939-60         4-17-1939   TSO Table V
61              7-17-1939   TSO Table V
62              8-21-1939   TSO Table V
63              9-5-1939    TSO Table V
64              9-5-1939    TSO Table V
66              9-3-1940    TSO Table V
1940-65         9-3-1940    TSO Table V
1940-67         12-16-1940  TSO Table II
68              1-6-1941    75.99
–             4-25-1941   TSO Table II
1941-69         5-24-1941   TSO Table II
–             9-2-1941    TSO Table V
1941-70         9-2-1941    TSO Table V
72              12-15-1941  TSO Table V
1941-71         12-15-1941  TSO Table I,
                            TSO Table II
73              12-27-1941  51.04
74              9-8-1942    TSO Table V
1942-74         9-8-1942    TSO Table V
76              8-30-1943   TSO Table V
1943-           8-30-1943   TSO Table V
78              8-28-1944   TSO Table V
1944-77         8-28-1944   TSO Table V
1945-79         5-7-1945    TSO Table V
80              5-8-1945    TSO Table V
81              5-8-1945    TSO Table V
82              7-16-1945   TSO Table V
83              8-6-1945    TSO Table V
84              8-27-1945   TSO Table V
85              8-28-1945   TSO Table V
1946-88         5-20-1946   TSO Table II
90              8-5-1946    TSO Table V
1946-89         8-5-1946    TSO Table V
91              8-26-1946   TSO Table V
92              8-26-1946   TSO Table V
93              8-26-1946   TSO Table V
1946-94         11-18-1946  TSO Table II
96              3-28-1947   TSO Table V
98              6-16-1947   TSO Table V
1947-97         6-16-1947   TSO Table V
99              8-26-1947   TSO Table V
100             8-26-1947   TSO Table V
101             2-2-1948    91.99
1948-103        8-2-1948    TSO Table V
104             8-23-1948   TSO Table V
105             8-23-1948   TSO Table V
106             9-24-1948   TSO Table V
107             11-15-1948  TSO Table V
108             12-20-1948  TSO Table V
1949-109        5-16-1949   TSO Table V
1950-113        8-21-1949   TSO Table V
111             8-22-1949   TSO Table V
112             8-22-1949   TSO Table V
114             8-21-1950   TSO Table V
115             11-3-1950   TSO Table V
117             8-27-1951   TSO Table V
1951-116        8-27-1951   TSO Table V
118             8-1-1952    TSO Table V
1952-123        12-1-1952   TSO Table V
1954-127        1-18-1954   TSO Table II
–             1-1-1955    TSO Table II
–             3-3-1956    TSO Table II
137             8-27-1956   TSO Table V
1956-136        8-27-1956   TSO Table V
1957-138        4-15-1957   TSO Table V
138A            6-18-1957   TSO Table V
139             8-5-1957    TSO Table V
140             8-26-1957   TSO Table V
141             8-26-1957   TSO Table V
1958-           6-2-1958    TSO Table V
146             8-25-1958   TSO Table V
147             10-6-1958   TSO Table V
1959-148        3-23-1959   TSO Table V
149             4-6-1959    35.024
150             8-17-1959   TSO Table V
151             8-17-1959   TSO Table V
152             8-17-1959   TSO Table V
153             8-31-1959   TSO Table V
1960-155        3-7-1960    TSO Table V
156             8-29-1960   TSO Table V
157             8-29-1960   TSO Table V
158             9-6-1960    TSO Table V
1961-160        8-18-1961   TSO Table V
161             8-28-1961   TSO Table V
1962-164        1-2-1962    TSO Table V
163             2-5-1962    TSO Table V
166             7-30-1962   TSO Table V
167             8-27-1962   TSO Table V
168             8-27-1962   TSO Table V
169             8-27-1962   TSO Table V
1963-173        3-4-1963    TSO Table II
1963-174        4-1-1963    TSO Table V
175             6-3-1963    TSO Table V
–             7-1-1963    TSO Table V
177             7-15-1963   TSO Table V
178             8-26-1963   TSO Table V
179             8-26-1963   TSO Table V
180             10-7-1963   TSO Table V
180             3-2-1964    32.25
181             6-22-1964   TSO Table V
182             7-6-1964    TSO Table V
183             7-20-1964   TSO Table V
185             8-3-1964    TSO Table V
184             8-11-1964   91.01,
                            91.99
–             11-2-1964   TSO Table V
–             3-1-1965    TSO Table V
187             5-17-1965   TSO Table V
–             6-7-1965    TSO Table V
–             6-21-1965   TSO Table V
186             7-6-1965    35.020
188             8-16-1965   TSO Table V
189             10-18-1965  TSO Table V
1966-190        1-3-1966    TSO Table V
–             3-21-1966   TSO Table V
191             3-21-1966   TSO Table V
192             7-5-1966    TSO Table V
–             8-1-1966    TSO Table V
193             9-6-1966    TSO Table V
194             11-7-1966   TSO Table V
195             12-12-1966  TSO Table V
1966-196        12-21-1966  TSO Table II
1967-197        2-6-1967    TSO Table V
198             4-3-1967    TSO Table V
199             4-3-1967    72.17
200             4-17-1967   TSO Table V
201             4-17-1967   TSO Table V
202             6-6-1967    TSO Table V
203             6-6-1967    TSO Table V
204             8-7-1967    TSO Table V
205             8-7-1967    TSO Table V
206             8-21-1967   32.22
207             10-2-1967   TSO Table V
1967-208        10-16-1967  TSO Table II
209             11-6-1967   TSO Table V
1967-210        12-18-1967  TSO Table II
218             4-1-1968    72.02,
                            Ch. 77 Schd. I
–             4-14-1971   TSO Table II
251             12-11-1972  35.026
254             4-2-1973    72.02,
                            Ch. 77 Schd. I
259             11-5-1973   32.03
75-3            3-10-1975   91.99
1976-11         8-30-1976   51.06 -
                            51.11
                            150.01 –
1977-10         - -1977     150.16,
                            150.99
77-1            5-2-1977    75.99
–             7-5-1977    32.20
1978-5          11-6-1978   131.01
1979-1          1-2-1979    32.06
1979-3          6-4-1979    131.99
1979-5          10-1-1979   TSO Table I
80-1            1-14-1980   52.01 -
                            52.08
                            52.01,
80-2            1-14-1980   52.09 -
                            52.15
1980-3          2-11-1980   31.07
1980-4          3-16-1981   TSO Table II
81-6            4-13-1981   32.21
1981-7          4-13-1981   32.21,
                            TSO Table I
                            50.06,
1981-69         4-21-1981   50.50 -
                            50.55,
                            70.15
1981-4          6-8-1981    TSO Table II
–             9-8-1981    TSO Table II
1981-10         6-8-1981    50.56,
                            51.12
1981-14         11-9-1981   32.03
82-2            4-12-1982   31.02
1982-2          4-12-1982   TSO Table III
1982- 3         5-10-1982   TSO Table II
1982-4          5-10-1982   TSO Table IV
1982-5          6-14-1982   31.10
1982-9          8-9-1982    31.03
1982-10         8-9-1982    32.26
1983-6          6- -1983    TSO Table I
1984-2          1-18-1984   TSO Table I
1984-4          5-14-1984   TSO Table I
1986-2          3-3-1986    TSO Table V
1986-6          11-10-1986  32.03
1987-1          3-9-1987    TSO Table V
1987-2          3-9-1987    35.021
1987-3          - -1987     32.03
1987-10         9-14-1987   35.025
1988-2          4-11-1988   TSO Table IV
1988-10         11-14-1988  TSO Table IV
1989-1          5-8-1989    TSO Table V
1989-4          5-8-1989    153.01,
                            153.99
1989-5          5-8-1989    94.99
1989-10         8-14-1989   35.003
68              4-9-1990    75.99
–             7-8-1991    52.04
1996-1          2-26-1996   35.027
1996-9          9-9-1996    52.03
1997-1          1-13-1997   TSO Table IV
1997-3          4-14-1997   TSO Table IV
1997-4          5-29-1997   91.99
1997-8          8-25-1997   TSO Table IV
                            50.11,
1997-9          8-25-1997   50.50,
                            50.52,
                            50.57
1998-4          5-11-1998   TSO Table V
1998-5          6-8-1998    31.11
1998-8          7-13-1998   TSO Table V
1998-12         8-10-1998   TSO Table V
1998-13         10-19-1998  34.05
1998-           10-19-1998  TSO Table V
–             11-9-1998   33.02
1998-16         12-14-1998  31.11
1999-1          4-12-1999   TSO Table IV
1999-4          6-14-1999   35.029
1999-5          7-12-1999   TSO Table IV
1999-9          9-13-1999   94.05
1999-10         9-13-1999   TSO Table V
1999-11         10-18-1999  TSO Table IV
1999-14         10-19-1999  TSO Table V
1999-4          11-8-1999   TSO Table V
2000-2          4-10-2000   TSO Table IV
2000-3          4-10-2000   32.03
2001-1          1-26-2001   50.57
                            152.02,
2001-3          3-27-2001   152.03,
                            152.05,
                            152.99
2001-7          5-11-2001   75.99
2002-1          5-13-2002   35.020
2002-2          5-13-2002   152.03,
                            152.05
2003-7          11-10-2003  TSO Table IV
2003-8          12-8-2003   TSO Table II
2004-7          8-9-2004    TSO Table V
–             8-12-2004   TSO Table II
2005-9          12-12-2005  32.03
2007-1          2-12-2007   35.031
–             8-1-2007    TSO Table II
2008-4          6-2-2008    TSO Table IV
2008-8          11-10-2008  35.005
2009-4          2-9-2009    TSO Table IV
–             3-29-2009   TSO Table II
2009-5          9-14-2009   35.004
2009-9          9-14-2009   35.025
2010-5          5-10-2010   32.27
2010-6          5-10-2010   TSO Table V
–             12-29-2011  TSO Table I
–             12-29-2011  TSO Table II
2012-5          - -2012     51.25 -
                            51.33
–             1-1-2012    TSO Table II
2012-5          - -2012     51.25 –
                            51.33
2013-5          7-15-2013   35.030
1998-7          10-15-2013  35.028
                            71.15 –
2014-1          2-10-2014   71.20,
                            71.99
                            70.15 –
2014-2          2-10-2014   70.22,
                            70.99
2014-3          8-11-2014   52.03
2015-3          - -2015     32.05
2015-4          - -2015     32.04
2015-2          8-10-2015   91.02,
                            91.99
2015-8          11-30-2015  51.05
2016-1          2-8-2016    33.20 –
                            33.23
                            151.01 –
2016-3          2-8-2016    151.06,
                            151.99
2016-4          2-8-2016    33.07
                            91.30 –
2016-5          3-14-2016   91.37,
                            91.99
2016-7          3-14-2016   33.04
–             6-3-2016    33.07
2016-9          6-3-2016    33.08
2016-17         9-12-2016   51.15
2016-18         10-14-2016  TSO Table V
2016-19         11-1-2016   TSO Table V
2016-20         11-1-2016   TSO Table V
2016-2          11-14-2016  90.01 –
                            90.10
2016-21         12-12-2016  TSO Table V
2016-22         12-29-2016  33.01
2017-3          4-10-2017   33.55 –
                            33.61
                            154.01 –
2017-4          4-10-2017   154.03,
                            154.99
2017-6          5-8-2017    92.01 –
                            92.11
                            73.01 –
2017-7          5-8-2017    73.12,
                            73.99
2017-9          8-14-2017   TSO Table V
2017-10         8-14-2017   51.12
2017-12         10-10-2017  TSO Table V
2017-16         11-1-2017   TSO Table V
2017-17         11-1-2017   TSO Table V
2017-14-1       12-28-2017  53.01 –
                            53.06
2018-1          2-12-2018   35.033
2018-2          3-12-2018   TSO Table V
2018-3          3-12-2018   35.033
                            152.01 -
2018-4          4-9-2018    152.05,
                            152.99
2018-7          7-9-2018    TSO Table V
2018-8          10-9-2018   TSO Table V
2018-9          10-9-2018   TSO Table V
2018-10         10-15-2018  TSO Table V
Amended 2018-10 12-28-2018  TSO Table V
2019-1          2-11-2019   TSO Table V
2019-2          3-11-2019   51.05
2019-5          7-8-2019    TSO Table V
                            73.01 -
2019-6          7-8-2019    73.12,
                            73.99
2019-7          7-8-2019    91.30 -
                            91.38
2019-9          8-12-2019   TSO Table V
2019-09         9-9-2019    TSO Table V
2019-10         10-15-2019  TSO Table V
2019-10         12-30-2019  TSO Table V
2019-11         12-20-2019  TSO Table V
Amended 2019-11 12-29-2020  TSO Table V
                            93.01,
2020-1          2-10-2020   93.15,
                            93.25 –
                            93.41
2020-2          3-9-2020    35.034
2020-3          3-26-2020   TSO Table V
2020-4          3-26-2020   33.01
2020-7          6-8-2020    TSO Table V
2020-8          8-10-2020   TSO Table IV
Amended 2020-9  12-29-2020  TSO Table V
2020-10         10-13-2020  TSO Table V
2020-13         10-13-2020  TSO Table V
2020-15A        12-29-2020  54.01 –
                            54.09
2020-16A        12-29-2020  33.09
2020-17         12-29-2020  TSO Table V
2021-05         4-21-2021   35.035
2021-7          6-14-2021   TSO Table V
2021-09         - -2021     94.05
2021-10         8-1-2021    33.10
2021-11         8-9-2021    TSO Table IV
2021-12         9-13-2021   TSO Table V
2021-14         10-12-2021  TSO Table V
Amended 2021-15 11-8-2021   TSO Table V
2021-16         10-12-2021  TSO Table V
2021-17         11-8-2021   TSO Table V
2022-01         2-14-2022   35.065 –
                            35.069
2022-2          2-14-2022   TSO Table V
2022-05         6-1-2022    TSO Table V
2022-6          8-8-2022    TSO Table V
2022-7          8-8-2022    TSO Table V
2022-8          8-8-2022    TSO Table V
2022-10         9-12-2022   TSO Table V
2022-11         10-11-2022  TSO Table V
2022-12         10-11-2022  TSO Table V
2022-13         10-11-2022  TSO Table V
2022-14         12-12-2022  TSO Table V
2022-17         12-29-2022  TSO Table V
                           
 
