JENNINGS COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2021-17, passed 9-23-2021; and
Indiana Legislative Service, 2021 Acts, Pamphlet No. 4
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street    Suite 310   
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
of the
JENNINGS COUNTY, INDIANA
Jennings County Auditor
Tessia Salsman
Jennings County Commissioners
Matt Sporleder, President
Bob Willhite
Shane Boswell
Jennings County Council
Eugene Rudicell
Mandy Creech
Bob Ellis
Mike Gerth
Howard Malcomb
Charlie Weber
Dave Woodall
Jennings County Attorney
Alex Zimmerman
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Jennings County
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws,
amendments thereto and newly enacted laws.
      (2)   Any previously existing law or amendment thereto reenacted by this
code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it had not been repealed by
this code.
      (3)   All rules and regulations adopted under laws reenacted in this code
shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed or amended subsequent to
the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD.  The Board of Commissioners of Jennings County, Indiana.
      COUNCIL.  The County Council of Jennings County, Indiana.
      COUNTY.  Jennings County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY.  Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH.  One calendar month.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code, regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the county exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
or Board refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department,
officer, agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall
be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: 
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (B)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (C)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNCIL AND COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS
      
31.   OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCIES; PUBLIC SAFETY
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; FEES AND COSTS
      
34.   COUNTY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  COUNCIL AND COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS
Section
   
30.01   Council Districts
   
30.02   Election Districts
   
30.03   Commissioner Districts
§ 30.01  COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   I.C. 36-2-3-4 provides that the Board of County Commissioners may
establish County Council Districts.
   (B)   The following Council Districts are hereby established:
      (1)   District No.1:
         (a)   Geneva 1 East;
         (b)   Geneva 1 West;
         (c)   Geneva 2; and
         (d)   Geneva 3.
      (2)   District No. 2:
         (a)   Center East;
         (b)   Center West;
         (c)   Lovett;
         (d)   Marion;
         (e)   Montgomery;
         (f)   Spencer North; and
         (g)   Spencer South.
      (3)   District No. 3:
         (a)   Bigger;
         (b)   Campbell;
         (c)   Columbia;
         (d)   Sand Creek;
         (e)   Vernon East; and
         (f)   Vernon West.
      (4)   District No. 4: City of North Vernon.
(Ord. 01-05, passed 10-22-2001)
§ 30.02  ELECTION DISTRICTS.
   It is ordered by the Board of Commissioners, that the following new precinct
changes are established.
   (A)   Geneva Township. Country Squire Lakes Subdivision, which is located
within the present boundaries of Geneva 1 West, shall be a separate precinct
and identified as Geneva 1 West. The remainder of what is presently Geneva 1
West shall be combined with Geneva 1 East and identified as Geneva 1 East.
   (B)   Precinct description.
      (1)   Precinct Geneva 1 West (CSL).
         (a)   Beginning at the intersection of State Road 7 and County Road
300 North, thence go west on the centerline of County Road 300 North to the
intersection of County Road 500 West, thence go north on the centerline of
County Road 500 West to the intersection of County Road 400 North, thence go
east on the centerline of County Road 400 North to the dead end, then follow
Country Squire Lake Fence Line Northeast until it intersects with State Road 7,
thence go south on the centerline of State Road 7 to County Road 300 North,
which is the beginning. Map of CSL subdivision is on file and available for
public inspection at the Jennings County Auditor’s Office.
         (b)   The following Census Blocks are in CENSUS TRACT 9603:  413, 414,
415, 416, 417, 418, 419, 420, 421, 422, 423, 424, 425, 426, 427, 428, 429, 430,
431, 432,  433, 434, 435, 436, 437, 438, 439, 440, 441, 442, 443, 444, 445,
446, 447, 448, 449, 450, 451, 452,  453, 454, 456, 457, 458, 459, 462, 463,
464, 465, 466, 467, 469, 470, 471, 472, 473, 474, 475, 476, 478, 479, 480, 481,
482, 483.
      (2)   Precinct Geneva 1 East.
         (a)   Beginning at a point where Geneva and Sandcreek Townships meet
in the center of County Road 850 North, thence south on the township line of
Geneva and Sandcreek Townships and then Geneva and Center Townships to a point
where Geneva and Center Townships meet in the center of County Road 300 North,
thence go west on the centerline of 300 North to the intersection of County
Road 700 West, thence go north on the centerline of County Road 700 West to the
intersection to the County Road of 500 North, thence go east on the centerline
of County Road 500 North to the intersection of State Road 7, thence go north
on the centerline of State Road 7 to the intersection of County Road 600 North,
thence go east on the centerline of County Road 600 North to the intersection
of County Road 350 West, thence go north on the centerline of County Road 350
West to the intersection of County Road 610 North, thence go east-northeast on
the centerline of County Road 610 North to the intersection of County Road 275
West, thence go east-northeast on the centerline of County Road 275 West to the
intersection of County Road 675 North, thence go northwest on the centerline of
County Road 675 North until it becomes County Road 710 North, thence
northwesterly to the intersection of County Road 400 West, thence go north on
the centerline of County Road 400 West, to the intersection of County Road 850
North, thence go east on the centerline of County Road 850 North to the Geneva
and Sandcreek township line which is point of the beginning.
         (b)   Exclude Country Squire Lakes Subdivision which is located within
the boundaries of this precinct as it is now a separate precinct identified as
Geneva 1 West.
         (c)   The following Census Blocks are in Census TRACT 9603: 117, 119,
134A, 137, 138, 140, 142, 143, 144A, 170A, 170B, 171A, 172, 173B, 174, 188B,
189, 190, 191, 192, 193, 194, 233, 401, 402, 403, 404, 405, 406, 407, 408, 409,
410, 411, 412.
(Ord. 4-97, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 30.03  COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS.
   The following Commissioners Districts for the county are hereby established:
   (A)   District No. 1.
      (1)   Spencer;
      (2)   Marion;
      (3)   Montgomery; and
      (4)   Lovett.
   (B)   District No. 2.
      (1)   Vernon;
      (2)   Bigger; and
      (3)   Campbell.
   (C)   District No. 3.
      (1)   Geneva;
      (2)   Center;
      (3)   Sandcreek; and
      (4)   Columbia.
(Ord. 91-10, passed 10-7-1991)
CHAPTER 31:  OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Health insurance for county employees
   
31.02   Drug-free workplace
   
31.03   Nepotism
   
31.04   Disclosure of contracts with relatives
   
31.05   Use of county-owned vehicles
   
31.06   Political activity
   
31.07   Employment policies and procedures manual
   
31.08   Deferred compensation plan
   
31.09   Municipalities continuing disclosure cooperation initiative
   
31.10   Conflict of interest policy
Officials and Officers
   
31.20   Highway Clerk
Organizations
   
31.35   Public Defender Board
   
31.36   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
31.37   Police Reserves
   
31.38   Redevelopment Commission
   
31.39   Convention and Visitors Commission
Cross reference:
   Animal Control Board, see §
90.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  HEALTH INSURANCE FOR COUNTY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The manner in which to implement or change county full-time employee
and part-time employee health insurance eligibility regulations and
requirements shall be by adoption of an ordinance of the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby declares that the three elected
members of the County Board of Commissioners become ineligible for health
insurance provided to Jennings County part-time employees upon passage and
adoption of this section.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 10-23-2014)
§ 31.02  DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Overview. The county makes a commitment to provide employees a safe
working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment and operating
practices comply with health and safety standards and to maintain public
confidence in the county and its employees. Since the county values each
employee, the county offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol and
drug abuse problems.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The county requires all employees to report for work in a condition
that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner.
Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with
prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the county
at any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws
or to better serve the needs of the county.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   PROHIBITED DRUGS are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
8120 and 21 C.F.R. § 1308.11 through 1308.15) and prescription controlled
substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed physician or dentist for
specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of prescription or over-
the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance abuse problem under this
section.
      (2)   (a)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs or other
controlled substances while on the job or on county premises (including
vehicles used for county business).
         (b)   These include, but are not limited to, marijuana, cocaine,
crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens and barbiturates. Any
illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over to the state
police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on county premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off county premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for county business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on county
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for county business is never
authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the county under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off county premises when conducting
county business. Report of a conviction must be made to the county within five
business days after the conviction. The county will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the county will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public or the county’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the County Commissioners.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the county will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the employee and family assistance program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other county policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a county investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline.)
   (G)   Testing.
      (1)   The county will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or
drug tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
county; or
         (c)   When required by law.
      (3)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
county. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the county. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the
Commissioners.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 31.03  NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the County Council or Board of County Commissioners to make
decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets or personnel policies of the
county.
      EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the county on a full-time,
part-time, temporary, intermittent or hourly basis. The term does not include
an individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the county. The performance of
the duties of a precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that
are imposed by I.C. Title 3 is not considered employment by the county.
      RELATIVE.
         (a)   Any of the following:
            1.   Spouse;
            2.   Parent or step parent;
            3.   A child or step child;
            4.   Brother, sister, step brother or step sister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (b)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual. The terms BROTHER and SISTER shall include a brother or
sister by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Nepotism prohibited.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives shall not be employed by the county
in a position that results in one relative being in the direct line of
supervision of the other relative.
      (2)   An individual shall not be promoted to a position if the new
position would cause his or her relative to be in the direct line of
supervision of that individual.
      (3)   Individuals who are employed by the county on the date the
individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected office in the county
and the individual is in the direct line of supervision of the newly elected
official are prohibited from remaining in that position.
      (4)   An individual who is a spouse of the County Sheriff may not be
employed by the county as prison matron for the county under I.C. 36-8-10-5.
      (5)   An individual who served as County Coroner, is currently ineligible
to serve due to term limits under Article 6, § 2(b) of the Constitution of the
State of Indiana, has receive certification under I.C. 36-2-14-22.3, and whose
successor in the office of County Coroner is a relative may not be employed by
county in the office of the Coroner.
   (C)   Exceptions to prohibition against nepotism.
      (1)   This section does not abrogate or affect an employment contract
with the county that an individual is a party to and is in effect on the date
the individual’s relative begins service a term of an elected office of the
county.
      (2)   This section does not apply to individuals who are employed by the
county on the date the individual’s relative begins serving a term of an
elected office in the county and the individual is in the direct line of
supervision of the newly elected official.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a spouse of the County Sheriff
employed by the county as prison matron for the county under I.C. 36-8-10-5.
      (4)   This section does not apply to an individual who served as County
Coroner, is currently ineligible to serve due to term limits under Article 6, §
2(b) of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, has receive certification
under I.C. 36-2-14-22.3, and whose successor in the office of County Coroner is
a relative.
   (D)   Impact of section of those individuals employed by county on July 1,
2012.
      (1)   An individual who is employed by the county on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this section unless the individual has a break in employment with
the county.
      (2)   The following are not considered a break in employment with the
county:
         (a)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or
unpaid leave, including vacation, sick or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation; and
         (b)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated
following by immediate reemployment by the unit, without loss of payroll time.
   (E)   Contracting policy.
      (1)   The county may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with:
         (a)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official; or
         (b)   A business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a
relative of an elected official.
      (2)   The county may enter into a contract or renew a contract with an
individual or business entity described in division (E)(1) above if all of the
following are satisfied:
         (a)   The elected official files with the county a full disclosure,
which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the county;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the Board of County Commissioners and be
accepted by the Board in a public meeting prior to final action on the contract
or purchase; and
            6.   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with:
               a.   The State Board of Accounts; and
               b.   The Clerk of the Circuit Court in the county where the
Board of County Commissioners takes final action on the contract or purchase.
         (b)   The appropriate agency of the county:
            1.   Makes a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered; or
            2.   Makes a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected.
         (c)   The county satisfies any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
I.C. 36-1-12; and
         (d)   The elected official complies with the disclosure provisions of
I.C. 35-44-1-3, if applicable.
      (3)   This division (E) does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the county
begins.
   (F)   Certification by elected officers of the county. Each elected officer
of the county shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this section. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the Board of County Commissioners not later
than December 31 of each year.
(Res. 2012-04, passed 6-25-2012; Res. 2014-18, passed 11-20-2014)
§ 31.04  DISCLOSURE OF CONTRACTS WITH RELATIVES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL.  A County Commissioner or County Council member.
      RELATIVE. 
         (a)   Any of the following:
            1.   Spouse;
            2.   Parent or step parent;
            3.   A child or step child;
            4.   Brother, sister, step brother or step sister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (b)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual. The terms BROTHER and SISTER shall include a brother or
sister by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Application to certain contracts.
      (1)   The county may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with an
individual who is a relative of an elected official or a business entity that
is wholly or partially owned by a relative of an elected official only if
disclosure requirements under this section are satisfied.
      (2)   Contracts in existence at the time the term of office of the
elected official begins are not affected until those contracts are renewed.
   (C)   Disclosure of contracts with relatives. An elected official whose
relative enters into a contract with the county shall file a full disclosure of
that contract.
      (1)   Disclosure statement must be in writing, describe the contract or
purchase to be made by the county, describe the relationship that the elected
official has to the individual or business entity that contracts or purchases,
and be affirmed under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   Disclosure statement must be submitted to the Board of County
Commissioners and be accepted by the Board in a public meeting prior to final
action on the contract on or purchase.
      (3)   Disclosure statement must be filed not later than 15 days after
final action on the contract or purchase with the State Board of Accounts, and
the County Clerk of the Circuit Court.
   (D)   Actions by Board of Commissioners or appropriate agency. The Board of
County Commissioners or an appropriate agency of the county designated by the
Board of County Commissioners shall make a certified statement that the
contract amount or purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered
or make a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or contractor was
selected.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the county. Each elected officer
of the county shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this section. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the Board of County Commissioners not later
than December 31 of each year.
(Res. 2012-03, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 31.05  USE OF COUNTY-OWNED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The principles of the county employee policy are hereby reconfirmed.
The county expects employee help and cooperation in making the county an
efficient and responsive county government. Employees are expected to recognize
the importance of providing each and every person with the most efficient
service and facilities within monetary constraints.
   (B)   Specifically the following is expected from employees:
      (1)   To take professional pride in the employee’s work;
      (2)   To be neat in person, dress and work habits;
      (3)   To treat every person with respect and courtesy;
      (4)   To leave personal problems at home; and
      (5)   To give a full day’s work for a full day’s pay.
   (C)   Above all, the county expects every employee to constantly preserve
and maintain professional integrity, while at the same time protecting the
interests of the county. The county expects every employee to be proud of the
county.
   (D)   The county will provide a clean, healthy, safe place to work.
      (1)   The county will pay fair wages in line with the job requirements
and performance.
      (2)   The county will provide steady employment as far as possible.
      (3)   The county will treat each person with respect and consideration.
      (4)   The county will earnestly try to avoid any favoritism of one
employee over another.
   (E)   It is the principles that state the county will avoid any favoritism
of one employee over another and the county’s commitment to providing the most
efficient service to county constituents and protecting the interest of the
county that cause the county to create a policy for use of county owned or
leased vehicles. If a single employee is allowed to take home a county vehicle
without justification for providing a service to the constituents of the
county, then in order to avoid favoritism, the county would be compelled to
allow all employees who drive a county owned vehicle for county purpose to be
allowed to take home such vehicle. This has implications for numerous
departments; increased operating cost, exposure to abuses and criticisms from
the public.
   (F)   The County Sheriff and the Sheriff deputies are permitted to take home
the police vehicles as this policy provides additional security to the citizens
of the county and allows for a quicker response in an emergency for an off-duty
officer.
   (G)   Therefore, the Commissioners prohibit personal use or taking home
county owned or leased vehicles unless pre-approved by the County
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2006)
§ 31.06  POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the Political Activity in County
Buildings Ordinance.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate the political
activity of county officials and employees in county buildings.
   (C)   Application. This section shall apply to all elected county officers,
deputies, officials and employees of the county.
   (D)   Prohibited activity. No county officer, deputy, official or employee
shall, in a county building, engage in any political campaigning, post
billboards, posters, photographs, advertisements, decals or distribute any
material advocating the election of any person in any election.
   (E)   Violation. Any person found to have violated this section may be
enjoined from such activity by proper legal proceeding.
(Ord. JC-5-92, passed 6-1-1992)
§ 31.07  EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL.
   The County Employment Policies and Procedures Manual is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full
herein.
(Ord. passed - - ; Res. 12-12, passed 12-17-2012; County Ord. 2015-10, passed
12-17-2015)
§ 31.08  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (A)   The County Commissioners established a deferred compensation plan for
the County Sheriff’s Department to allow for the voluntary participation of
employees of such Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   The Sheriff’s Department will utilize the deferred compensation plan
established by County Sheriffs Department in Indiana known as the Indiana
Sheriffs 457(b) Plan and participate in the group trust arrangement established
by that deferred compensation plan; and the Sheriff is authorized to sign the
adoption agreement to participate in the deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   The County Commissioners hereby authorize the County Auditor to make
deductions from the pay of employees of the Sheriff’s Department who
voluntarily participate in the deferred compensation plan and to deposit the
deferrals in the trust. The County Commissioners also authorize the Committee
made up of representatives of the Sheriff Departments participating in the plan
(as determined by participating Sheriff Departments) to make such other
arrangements as are necessary to implement the plan. It is understood that,
other than the incidental expenses related to collecting the employees
deferrals, there is to be no cost to or contribution by the county to this
plan.
(Ord. 24, passed 11-13-2014; Ord. 2014-17, passed 11-13-2014)
§ 31.09  MUNICIPALITIES CONTINUING DISCLOSURE COOPERATION INITIATIVE.
   (A)   The county, through its Auditor or a third-party selected by the
Auditor, is hereby directed to conduct a continuing disclosure review of its
prior continuing disclosure undertakings (the “review”). Such review shall
include, but is not limited to, a historical review of the county’s continuing
disclosure obligations and filings and bond offering documents in connection
with its prior issuances that are within the timeframes contemplated by the
MCDC initiative.
   (B)   The county is hereby authorized to participate in the MCDC initiative
if in the discretion of the Auditor and the President of the Board of County
Commissioners, or either one of them, after consultation with the County
Attorney, bond counsel and financial advisors, it is determined that such
participation is appropriate.
   (C)   The Auditor and the President of the Board of County Commissioners, or
either one of them, after consultation with the County Attorney, bond counsel
and financial advisors, are hereby authorized to execute and deliver any and
all documents and instruments, including the Municipalities Continuing
Disclosure Cooperation initiative questionnaire for self-reporting entities
contained in the MCDC initiative (the “questionnaire”), and to do and cause to
be done any and all acts and things necessary or proper for participating in
the MCDC initiative and all related transactions, including the review,
contemplated by this section.
   (D)   Any action taken by the Auditor or any other employee of the county
with respect to the review prior to the adoption of this section, including the
engagement of a third party to conduct the review and participation in the MCDC
initiative, is hereby ratified and confirmed.
(Res. 2014-19, passed 11-20-2014)
§ 31.10  CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   (A)   Scope. This section applies to all public officials and employees of
the county.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CONSULTANT.  An individual or firm providing engineering and design
related services as a party to a contract with a recipient or sub-recipient of
federal assistance.
   (C)   Officers and employees of the county shall neither solicit nor accept
gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from consultants, potential
consultants, or parties to sub-agreements, unless in accordance with this
conflict of interest policy. The aforementioned prohibition does not include
gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value under $100. Any financial
interest under $100 shall be considered not substantial an accordance with the
Code of Federal Regulations.
   (D)   This policy conforms to the standards set forth in the Code of Federal
Regulations and by the Indiana Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 8-10-2017)
OFFICIALS AND OFFICERS
§ 31.20  HIGHWAY CLERK.
   The position of Highway Clerk shall no longer be a political appointment and
shall be a position hired by the County Highway Department and County
Commissioners.
(Res. 2013-06, passed 11-21-2013)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.35  PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD.
   (A)   Board established. The County Public Defender Board is hereby
established for the purpose of providing legal representation to indigent
defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile, probation violation, extradition,
child support, civil commitments and other proceedings where the right to
counsel has been established by law.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD.  The County Public Defender Board created by this section.
      INDIGENT DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT.  A person who requests legal
representation and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal
representation at public expense.
      LEGAL REPRESENTATION. 
         (a)   The services of an attorney provided to a defendant/respondent
in a matter originating in a state court in the county involving:
            1.   A person charged with a crime as defined in I.C. 35-41-1-6;
            2.   An act of delinquency as defined in I.C. 31-37-1-2;
            3.   A violation of a condition of probation established as a part
of a sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
            4.   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
            5.   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C.
31-16;
            6.   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
            7.   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
         (b)   The term LEGAL REPRESENTATION includes services in connection
with all pre trial, trial and appellate proceedings in which an indigent
defendant/respondent has a right to counsel.
   (C)   Board membership and appointment.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of three members:
         (a)   One member appointed by the County Commissioners; and
         (b)   Two members from different political parties appointed by
majority vote of the judges who exercise felony or juvenile jurisdiction.
      (2)   Appointments shall be for three-year terms. Members of the Board
shall serve until their successor is appointed. An appointment to fill a
vacancy shall be made by the authority appointing the member vacating the
position and shall be for the remainder of the unexpired term.
      (3)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of
the board: a city, town, or county attorney, a law enforcement officer, a judge
or a court employee.
      (4)   Board members shall serve without pay, but may receive
reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the member’s duties if
approved by the Board.
      (5)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of the Board shall be
approved by a majority of the members present.
      (6)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly or upon call of its
chairperson or any two members of the Board.
      (7)   The Board shall elect its chairperson by a majority vote of the
Board.
   (D)   Powers and duties of the Board. The Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal representation to
indigent defendants/respondents in the county in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7-
5. The comprehensive plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
         (a)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at the
earliest possible point in time;
         (b)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by the
same attorney or attorneys through the pendency of the matter to the greatest
extent possible; and
         (c)   Professional development, continuing legal education and
malpractice coverage for public defenders.
      (2)   Establish policies and procedure for the provision of competent
legal representation for indigent defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support and criminal contempt and other
matters pursuant to the comprehensive plan;
      (3)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of
indigency and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation
provided at public expense in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7-9;
      (4)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the Board and monitor the
expenditures of funds; and
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the County Council and the general public an
annual report on the operation of the Board.
   (E)   Authority of judges. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
abridge the authority of any judge of a state court of this county from
appointing counsel for any person entitled thereto under the Constitution of
the United States or the Constitution of the state.
   (F)   Scope of provisions. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
create a right of reimbursement pursuant to I.C. 33-40-7, except to the extent
that any claims for reimbursement comply with I.C. 33-40-7 and the standards of
the State Public Defender Commission.
(Ord. 98-8, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 31.36  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3-3, as added by Acts 1981, P.L.
309, 110, there is hereby established a County Department of Parks and
Recreation, composed of five members, one ex officio member and such other
personnel as the Board shall determine.
   (B)   The Board shall be composed of five members and the County
Agricultural Cooperative Extension Coordinator, the County Agricultural
Extension Agent or a member of the County Agricultural Extension Committee ex
officio. The Judge of the Circuit Court shall select two members to be
appointed to the Board, but no more than one member the Judge appoints may be
affiliated with same party. The County Council shall also select two members,
but no more than one member the Council appoints may be affiliated with the
same political party. The County Commissioners shall select one member to be
appointed to the Board. The ex officio member shall be selected by the
respective Board. All persons named to the Board shall be appointed on the
basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation. Neither a
municipal executive nor a member of a county fiscal body, county executive, or
a municipal fiscal body may serve on the Board.
   (C)   Upon the establishment of the Board, the terms of the members
initially appointed shall be one, two, three and four years. The Judge’s
appointments are for one- and three-year terms, respectively, and the County
Council’s appointments are for two- and four-year terms, respectively and the
County Commissioners appointment shall be for a four-year term. Thereafter, as
a term expires, each new appointment shall be for a four-year term. All terms
shall expire on the first Monday of January, but an appointee shall continue in
office until his or her successor is appointed. If a vacancy on the Board
occurs, the respective appointing authority shall appoint a person to serve for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (D)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a
President, Vice-President and a Secretary. The Vice-President shall have the
authority to act as the President of the Board during the absence or disability
of the President.
   (E)   The Board shall have the general power to perform all acts necessary
to acquire and develop sites and facilities, to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions, including powers and
duties promulgated in I.C. 36-10-3-10 and 36-10-3-11 respectively.
   (F)   The Board may designate one of its members to sit on a municipal park
board in an advisory capacity. The Board may also allow a member of a municipal
park board to sit with the Board in an advisory capacity. Any member of a
municipal park board sitting on the Board in an advisory capacity shall not
have the right to vote.
   (G)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of the county government. The Board may accept gifts,
donations and subsidies for park and recreation purposes.
(Council Ord. 4, passed 5-21-1984)
§ 31.37  POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   A County Police Reserve is hereby established pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-
20.
   (B)   Said unit shall be under the control and direction of the County
Sheriff.
   (C)   Said unit shall consist of not more than 20 members, who shall be
designated Reserve Deputy Sheriffs, and who shall possess, subject to rules of
the Sheriff’s Department, full police powers.
(Ord. 2, passed 9-20-1982)
§ 31.38  REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Department of Redevelopment. The
Department will be controlled by a board of five members known as the Jennings
County Redevelopment Commission. Three members shall be appointed by the Board
of Commissioners and two members shall be appointed by the County Council
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14-16.1.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall also appoint an individual to serve
as a nonvoting advisor to the Department of Redevelopment. The nonvoting
advisor appointed under I.C. 36-7-14-16.1 must also be a member of the School
Board Corporation that includes all or part of the territory served by the
Redevelopment Commission or an individual recommended by the School Board to
the entity that appoints the nonvoting advisor. Additionally, the nonvoting
advisor is not considered a member of the Redevelopment Commission for purposes
of this section, but is entitled to attend and participate in the proceedings
of all meetings of the Redevelopment Commission; is not entitled to a salary,
per diem, or reimbursement of expenses; serves for a term of two years and
until a successor is appointed; and serves at the pleasure of the entity that
appointed the nonvoting advisor.
   (C)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve for one year, from the
first day of January after his or her appointment, until his or her successor
is appointed and has qualified, except that original Commissioners shall serve
from the date of their appointment until the first day of January in the second
year after the appointment. If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be appointed
in the same manner as the original Commissioner, and the successor shall serve
for the remainder of the vacated term.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14 and 36-7-25, all of the territory within the
boundaries of the county, except the territory within the corporate boundaries
of the City of North Vernon, will be a taxing district to be known as the
Redevelopment District of Jennings County, for the purpose of levying and
collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment purposes. All of the taxable
property within this special taxing district will be considered to be
benefitted by the redevelopment projects and economic development projects
carried out under this section to the extent of the special taxes levied
hereunder.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 31.39  CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU.
   (A)   Composition of the Commission; appointments.
      (1)   The initial Jennings County Convention and Visitors Commission (the
"JCCVC") shall consist of five members. The number of members may be changed
form time to time, but shall consist of an odd number of members, and shall be
consistent with the provisions of I.C.  6-9-18-5, as amended or, with any
successor statute or law governing the subject matter hereof.
      (2)   A simple majority of the JCCVS shall be:
         (a)   Engaged convention, visitor, or tourism business; or
         (b)   Involved in promoting conventions, visitors, or tourism.
      (3)   If available and willing to serve, a least two of the members must
be engaged in the business of renting or furnishing rooms, lodging, or
accommodations as described in I.C. 6-9-18-3.
      (4)   Not more than one member may be affiliated with the same business
entity.
      (5)   No more than a simple majority of the members may be affiliated
with the same political party.
      (6)   Each member of the JCCVS must reside in Jennings County.
      (7)   The county executive (the County Commissioners) shall determine who
will make the appointments to the Commission, except that the executive of the
largest municipality in the county (currently, the Mayor of the City of North
Vernon) shall appoint a number of the members of the Commission, which number
shall be in the same ratio to the total size of the Commission (rounded off to
the nearest whole number) that the population of the largest municipality bears
to the total population of the county. The Commissioners find that currently,
the Mayor is entitled to make one appointment to the JCCVS, and the County
Commissioners are entitled to make the other four appointments. The County
Commissioners will make their initial four appointments to the JCCVS, but may,
by amendment to this section or by resolution, delegate that authority as
provided by I.C. 6-9-18-5.
   (B)   Terms. All initial appointments to the JCCVC are interim, and will
expire on January 1, 2021, or as soon thereafter as their successors are
appointed. Thereafter, in conformance with I.C.  6-9-18-5(d), all terms of
office for all commission members begin on January 1. Initial appointments
shall be for staggered terms, with subsequent appointments for two-year terms.
A member whose term expires may be reappointed to serve another term. If a
vacancy occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a qualified person to
serve for the remainder of the term. If an initial appointment is not made by
February 1 or a vacancy is not filled within 30 days, the Commission shall
appoint a member by majority vote.
   (C)   Removal. A member of the JCCVC may be removed for cause by the
authority that appointed the member.
   (D)   No compensation. Members of the JCCVC shall not receive a salary for
their membership. However, JCCVC members are entitled to reimbursement for
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their respective duties, but
consistent with the written policies of county government and state and federal
law.
   (E)   Oath. Each JCCVC member, before entering his or her duties, shall take
an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon his certificate of
appointment and promptly filed with the Clerk of the Circuit court of the
county.
   (F)   Organizational meeting.  The JCCVC shall meet after January 1 each
year for ht purpose of organization. It shall elect one of its members
president, another vice president, another secretary, and another treasurer.
The members elected to those offices shall perform the duties pertaining to the
offices. The first officers chosen shall serve from the date of their election
until their successors are elected and qualified. A majority of the JCCVC
constitutes a quorum, and the concurrence of a majority of the JCCVC is
necessary to authorize any action.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 11-21-2019)
CHAPTER 32:  EMERGENCIES; PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Disaster emergencies; declarations
   32.02   All Hazard Mitigation Plan
Emergency Management
   
32.15   Purpose
   
32.16   Definitions
   
32.17   General scope and intent; liberal construction of powers
   
32.18   Limitations; non-suppression of emergency powers of County Sheriff and
political subdivisions
   
32.19   County Emergency Management Advisory Council
   
32.20   Director of Emergency Management
   
32.21   Department of Emergency Management
   
32.22   Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
   
32.23   Jurisdiction
   
32.24   Tests of Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and other tests
   
32.25   County Board of Commissioners
   
32.26   County Emergency Management Program
 
   
32.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  DISASTER EMERGENCIES; DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may declare a local disaster emergency upon
the occurrence of imminent threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or manmade cause,
including:
      (1)   Fire;
      (2)   Flood;
      (3)   Earthquake;
      (4)   Wind;
      (5)   Storm;
      (6)   Wave action;
      (7)   Oil spill;
      (8)   Other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert
danger or damage;
      (9)   Air contamination;
      (10)   Drought;
      (11)   Explosion;
      (12)   Riot; or
      (13)   Hostile military or paramilitary action.
   (B)   If a majority of the Board of Commissioners is not available, the
declaration of emergency may be declared by one Commissioner and may be
confirmed by the entire Board when a majority is available.
   (C)   Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating a local
state of emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be
filed promptly in the office of the County Clerk and in one public place in
each district of the county.
   (D)   As part of declaring a local state of emergency, the Board of
Commissioners may prohibit travel on all or a portion of any county road.
      (1)   Travel restrictions shall not apply to emergency personnel or to
those working to restore utility service.
      (2)   Any order prohibiting travel on a county road shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed promptly in the office of the County
Clerk.
   (E)   A vehicle which is stopped or parked on a county road during a
declared disaster emergency, whether attended or unattended, which interferes
with snow removal or other emergency relief activities, may be removed and
towed to a secure location at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 08, passed 10-9-2007)  Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.02  ALL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Jennings County All Hazard Mitigation Plan update is hereby adopted as
an official plan of the county.
(Res. 2018-01, passed 1-25-2018)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 32.15  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish in the county a Department
of Emergency Management, and to provide for the exercise of necessary powers
during disaster emergencies.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 32.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL.  The County Emergency Management Advisory Council as
established under this subchapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   BOARD.  The Board of County Commissioners, as elected pursuant to I.C. 36-2-
2.
   CHAIRPERSON.  The Chairperson of the County Emergency Management Advisory
Council as established under this subchapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   COUNTY.  Jennings County.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Department of Emergency Management as established under
this subchapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DIRECTOR.  The County Director of Emergency Management (formally referred to
as Director) as established and appointed pursuant to this subchapter in
accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DISASTER.  Occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury or loss of life or property resulting from any natural phenomenon or
human act, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, windstorm,
snowstorm, ice storm, tornado, wave action, oil spill, other water
contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, air
contamination, drought, explosion, technological emergency, utility failure,
critical shortages of essential fuels or energy, major transportation accident,
hazardous material or chemical incident, radiological incident, nuclear
incident, biological incident, epidemic, public health emergency, animal
disease event requiring emergency action, blight, infestation, riot, hostile
military or paramilitary action, act of terrorism, or any other public calamity
requiring emergency action.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.  The preparation for and the coordination of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces or other
federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair
injury and damage resulting from disasters. These functions include, without
limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, radiological,
chemical and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken
areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection,
temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related to
civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental
to the preparation for and coordination of the foregoing functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE COMPACT. Refers to I.C. 10-14-4.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER.  Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management, being first duly rostered,
identified and appointed by the Director, including persons and private
agencies or governmental units offering services to the county during emergency
situations or mutual aid to other emergency services who request assistance.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT WORKER. Includes any full-time or part-time paid,
volunteer, or auxiliary employee of: the state, other states, territories or
possessions, the District of Columbia, the federal government, any neighboring
country, any political subdivision of any entity described above or any agency
or organization performing emergency management services at any place in
Indiana subject to the order or control of, or under a request of, the state
government or any political subdivision of the state. The term includes a
volunteer health practitioner registered under I.C. 10-14-3.5.
   ENERGY. Coal, petroleum or other liquid fuels, natural or synfuel gas or
electricity.
   IDHS.  The State Emergency Management Agency established under I.C. 10-19-2.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE. 
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated in the emergency
operations plan to participate in emergency management activities; and
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a municipal
corporation, or a volunteer organization designated to participate in the
county’s emergency management programs and activities pursuant to a cooperative
or mutual aid agreement entered into pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   PERSONNEL.  County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PLAN or EMERGENCY PLAN.  The current local Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan whose preparation and updating are mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY. 
      (1)   As referred to in I.C. 10-14-3-29(a) for purposes of declaring a
local disaster emergency, and as referred to hereinafter, means the County
Board of Commissioners established under I.C. 36-2-2.
      (2)   If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners (two of the three
Commissioners) is unavailable or is incapacitated, then the following
establishes the line of succession for PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
         (a)   Regularly designated President of the County Board of
Commissioners. If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners (two of the
three Commissioners as established under I.C. 36-2-4-3) is unavailable or is
incapacitated, then the regularly designated President of the County Board of
Commissioners shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes
of this subchapter until such time that a quorum of the County Board of
Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
         (b)   President Pro-Tem of the Board of County Commissioners. If both
a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners and the regularly designated
President of the County Board of Commissioners are unavailable or are
incapacitated, then the President Pro-Tem of the County Board of Commissioners
shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this
subchapter until such time that either the regularly designated President or a
quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable or
incapacitated.
         (c)   Remaining Commissioner of the Board of County Commissioners. If
a quorum of the Board of County Commissioners, the regularly designated
President of the Board of County Commissioners, and the President Pro-Tem of
the County Board of Commissioners are all unavailable or are incapacitated,
then the remaining Commissioner of the County Board of Commissioners shall
serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this subchapter
until such time that the President Pro-Tem, the regularly designated President
or a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable or
incapacitated.
         (d)   County Auditor. If all of the County Commissioners are
unavailable or incapacitated, then the County Auditor shall serve as the
PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this subchapter until such time
that a County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
         (e)   County Clerk. If all of the County Commissioners and the County
Auditor are unavailable or incapacitated, then the County Clerk shall serve as
the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this subchapter until such
time that the County Clerk or a County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or
incapacitated.
         (f)   County Recorder. If all of the County Commissioners, the County
Auditor and the County Clerk are unavailable or incapacitated, then the County
Recorder shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of
this subchapter until such time that the County Auditor, the County Clerk or a
County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
         (g)   Director of Emergency Management. If all of the County
Commissioners, the County Auditor, the County Clerk and the County Recorder are
unavailable or incapacitated, then the Director of Emergency Management shall
serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this subchapter
until such time that the Counter Recorder, the County Auditor, the County Clerk
or a County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013; Ord. 4-2016, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 32.17  GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT; LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   The general intent of this subchapter is to provide for all necessary and
indispensable powers and procedures reasonably needed to mitigate, prepare for,
respond to and recover from emergency conditions. To this end, all powers, both
ministerial and discretionary, as conferred herein shall be liberally construed
to supplement and augment, not to limit, any other powers or reasonable
exercise of discretion which may ordinarily pertain to county officers,
employees, department and agencies.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 32.18  LIMITATIONS; NON-SUPPRESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF COUNTY SHERIFF AND
POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter is intended to supersede or delimit any
statutory powers of the County Sheriff.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter is intended to supersede or delimit the
powers granted under I.C. 10-14-3-17 to any political subdivision to adopt and
implement emergency plans and promulgate and enforce emergency management rules
and regulations in the advent of an actual emergency affecting such political
subdivision. However, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17, such regulations and
procedures as promulgated by the political subdivision may not be inconsistent
with the county emergency management program and emergency plan established in
accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 32.19  COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Establishment. In accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17, there is
established the County Emergency Management Advisory Council, which shall
consist of the following individuals or their designees:
      (1)   The president of the County executive;
      (2)   The president of the County fiscal body;
      (3)   The Mayor of each city located in the county;
      (4)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns
located within the county;
      (5)   Representatives of such private and public agencies or
organizations which can be of assistance to emergency management as the
organizing group considers appropriate, or as may be added later by the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council; and
      (6)   One commander of a local civil air patrol unit in the county or the
commander’s designee.
   (B)   Officers. The Advisory Council shall have a chairperson, a vice-
chairperson, and a recording secretary. The Advisory Council shall elect these
officers for one-year terms.
   (C)   Power and duties.
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control
over the emergency management program of the county.
      (2)   The Advisory Council shall select, or cause to be selected, with
the approval of the County Executive, a County Emergency Management Director.
This appointment shall be permanent unless it is terminated in accordance with
division (C)(3) below.
      (3)   The Advisory Council shall have the power to terminate, with the
approval of the County Executive, the County Emergency Management Director, if
the Advisory Council determines that the Director:
         (a)   Is incapable of fulfilling his or her duties;
         (b)   Has failed to perform his or her duties; or
         (c)   Is not able to hold any other local or state elective office,
appointive position or any other position that is created by statute.
      (4)   The Advisory Council shall consult with the Executive Director of
IDHS to obtain his or her opinion regarding the abilities and competence of the
County Emergency Management Director prior to the appointment or termination of
the Director. The IDHS Executive Director’s opinion hereunder shall be advisory
only.
      (5)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least once every six months: the
frequency, time and location being determined by the Advisory Council.
      (6)   The Advisory Council is a governing body of a public agency, as
defined under I.C. 5-14-1.5-2, and as such is subject to all of the
requirements of the Indiana Open Door Law (I.C. 5-14-1.5 et seq.). In addition,
any records generated, received, retained, maintained, used or filed by the
Advisory Council are public records subject to the Indiana Access to Public
Records Act (I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.). Also, these public records are subject to
the retention schedule adopted by the County Commission of Public Records in
accordance with I.C. 5-15-6 et seq.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 32.20  DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory
Council, shall be executive head of the Department and shall have
responsibility for the organization, administration and operation of the
emergency management organization, including the following specific powers and
duties:
      (1)   Keep the Advisory Council fully informed on emergency management
activities;
      (2)   Keep the County Commissioners fully informed on emergency
management activities;
      (3)   Submit to the Advisory Council and the County Commissioners a
yearly report on the county’s comprehensive emergency management, including
mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery taken in the previous year and
planned and recommended for the year to come;
      (4)   Assure that all of the duties and responsibilities of the Emergency
Management Agency are completed;
      (5)   Assure that all county employees and rostered volunteers with
responsibilities as part of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan receive
training in the functions that they are to perform under the Plan;
      (6)   Design and conduct exercises of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan, as required by the State Emergency Management Agency;
      (7)   Assure that the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan addresses
all hazards and includes all cities, towns and other population centers within
the county;
      (8)   Submit to State Emergency Management Agency the assessment
specified in IDHS’s required format and within IDHS’s required time frame for
submission;
      (9)   Provide to the State Emergency Management Agency Director annual
reports and documentation as mandated;
      (10)   Competently manage the Department’s various functions, including
among others financial, personnel and logistic;
      (11)   Timely respond to the Chairperson of the Advisory Council, as
mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-17;
      (12)   Timely obey the directives of superior state authorities;
      (13)   Assure that the activities of the Department at all times comport
with I.C. 10-14-1 and other applicable statutes, rules and county ordinances.
      (14)   Develop an emergency operating center (“EOC”) as a site from which
key officials can direct and control operations during a disaster or emergency;
      (15)   Attend, and attain passing grades in, the emergency management
professional development series for emergency management presented by the
Public Safety Training Institute within four years of first assuming the
position of Director;
      (16)   Attend, and attain passing grades in, such emergency management
training as may be required by IDHS in subsequent years;
      (17)   Assure the Deputy Director’s attendance at, and passing grades in,
the Emergency Management Professional Development Series for emergency
management presented by the Public Safety Training Institute within four years
of first assuming the position of Deputy Director;
      (18)   Assure the Deputy Director’s and all paid emergency management
staff’s attendance at, and passing grades in, such emergency management
training as may be required by IDHS in subsequent years;
      (19)   Assure ongoing attendance by the Director, the Deputy Director and
all paid emergency management staff at further emergency management courses
presented by the Public Safety Training Institute to assure continued knowledge
of the latest information on emergency management;
      (20)   Assume responsibility for public relations, information and
education regarding all phases of emergency management;
      (21)   Assure coordination within the county of all activities for
emergency management;
      (22)   Maintain liaison and coordinate with all other affected agencies,
public and private;
      (23)   Coordinate the recruitment and training for volunteer personnel
and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the county for
emergency management purposes;
      (24)   Seek, negotiate and enter into (with the approval or ratification
of the County Commissioners and consistent with the State Emergency Operations
Plan and program) mutual aid arrangements with other public and private
agencies for emergency management purposes, and taking all steps in accordance
with such arrangements to comply with or take advantage thereof in the event of
an actual emergency affecting the parties;
      (25)   Accept any offer of the federal government to provide for the use
of the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds for
emergency management purposes by way of gift, grant or loan, when the Governor
has approved such offer;
      (26)   Seek and accept from any person, firm or corporation, any
gratuitous offers to provide services, equipment, supplies, materials, funds or
licenses or privileges to use real estate or other premises, to the county for
emergency management purposes;
      (27)   Issue proper insignia and papers to emergency management workers
and other people directly concerned with emergency management;
      (28)   Assure that all volunteers meet the criteria set forth below in §
32.21(A)(2)(c) prior to accepting them as members of the Department; and
      (29)   Make rapid and accurate assessment of the following as soon as an
emergency or disaster declaration has been made:
         (a)   Property damage;
         (b)   Personal injuries;
         (c)   Fatalities;
         (d)   Basic needs; and
         (e)   Special needs.
   (B)   In addition to the powers and duties expressly provided above in this
section, the Director shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a
local emergency management director as provided under I.C. 10-14-1. In
particular, but not by limitation, the Director, through the Department, may
perform or cause to be performed with respect to the county, any function
parallel or analogous to those performed on a statewide basis by IDHS under
I.C. 10-14-1.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 32.21  DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Establishment; staffing; oath; and prohibition of political activity.
      (1)   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management
within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose of
utilizing to the fullest extent possible the personnel and facilities of
existing county departments and agencies to prepare for and meet any disaster
as defined in this subchapter. The Director of Emergency Management shall be
responsible for its organization, administration and operation.
      (2)   The Department shall consist of the following:
         (a)   An executive head of the Department of Emergency Management, who
shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management, appointed in accordance
with §
32.19(C);
         (b)   A Deputy Director appointed by the Director with the approval of
the Advisory Council. The Deputy Director shall fulfill the duties of the
Director in the absence or incapacity of the Director to serve; and assist the
Director in the performance of Director’s duties;
         (c)   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and
appointed by the Director. In addition to the other requirements in this
subchapter, the Director shall ensure that all volunteer personnel meet the
following qualifications before being placed on the roster as a member of the
Department:
            1.   Be at least 18 years of age or older;
            2.   Not be convicted of a felony; and
            3.   Have completed and have on file with the Department an
application form.
         (d)   The employees, equipment and facilities of all county
departments and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to emergency management and
designated by the Plan to participate in emergency management activity;
         (e)   Staff officers with responsibility for communications and
warning, radiological, health and medical care, law enforcement, fire and
search and rescue, public works and public information in accordance with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
         (f)   Such assistants, clerical help and other employees as deemed
necessary and appointed by the Director in accordance with the Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27(a), no person shall be employed or
associated in any capacity in any emergency management organization established
under this subchapter who:
         (a)   Advocates a change by force or violence in the constitutional
form of the government of the United States or the overthrow of any government
in the United States by force or violence; or
         (b)   Has been convicted of or is under indictment or information
charging any subversive act against the United States.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27(b), each individual who is appointed to
serve in an organization for emergency management shall, before entering upon
the individual’s duties, take an oath, in writing, before a person authorized
to administer oaths in this state.
         (a)   The oath shall be substantially as follows:
            “I,                                            , do solemnly swear
(or affirm) that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Indiana against all enemies,
foreign and domestic: that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same;
that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose
of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which
I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate,
nor am I a member of any political party or organization that advocates, the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state by force or
violence; and that during such time as I am a member of the County Department
of Emergency Management I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this state by force or violence.”
         (b)   For the purposes of this section and §§
32.20 through
32.25, the Executive Director of IDHS and the Director shall be authorized to
administer the oath provided in division (A)(4)(a) above of this section to
emergency management and disaster personnel; and may delegate that authority to
designated deputies and assistants as may be approved by the Executive Director
of IDHS.
      (5)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-26, the Department and its employees are
prohibited from participating in political activity as follows.
         (a)   The Department shall not participate in any form of political
activity nor shall it be employed for political purposes.
         (b)   Political considerations shall not be a consideration for
appointment to the Department nor a cause for dismissal except as provided in
divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) above.
         (c)   Full-time employees of the Department shall not participate in
political activities.
      (6)   It is the intent of this division (A)(6) that emergency management
and disaster assignments under the Plan shall be as consistent with normal duty
assignments as possible.
      (7)   The County Council shall not have any power of approval over
particular candidates for any position, but the County Council shall have
general statutory powers to determine the numbers of officers, deputies and
employees of county departments, classify positions and adopt schedules of
compensation pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3(a). Notwithstanding any other provision
of this subchapter, with the exception of the Director, a compensated position
may not be established within the Department of Emergency Management, nor shall
any person be appointed to such position without authorization and sufficient
funding from the County Council.
   (B)   Duties. The Department, subject to the direction and control of the
Director, shall prepare and implement the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan, including the following specific duties:
      (1)   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in written form
a clear and complete statement of the emergency responsibilities of all local
agencies and officials and of the disaster chain of command in accordance with
I.C. 10-14-3-17;
      (2)   Work closely with officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county to develop a hazard mitigation program to
eliminate or reduce potential hazards;
      (3)   Write and implement the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan,
which shall conform to the guidelines contained in the most current state and
federal guidance documents (the county cannot receive state and/or federal
matching funds unless this is done), and the requirements established under §
32.22, herein. As part of the preparation of this Plan, the Department shall:
         (a)   Identify and analyze the effects of hazards that threaten the
county;
         (b)   Inventory manpower and material resources from governmental and
private sector sources that would be available in a disaster or emergency;
         (c)   Establish a system to alert key officials in event of a disaster
or emergency;
         (d)   Identify resource deficiencies and work with appropriate
officials on measures to correct them;
         (e)   Develop and maintain an emergency communications system, thus
assuring proper functioning of emergency communications throughout the county,
including all cities and towns;
         (f)   Take all actions necessary to ensure the continuity of
government procedures and systems in the event of a disaster;
         (g)   Establish and maintain a shelter and reception and care system
for both people and animals;
         (h)   Develop a training program for emergency response personnel
ensuring that mitigation, training and exercising have been performed for all
such personnel; and
         (i)   Coordinate with industry to develop and maintain industrial
emergency plans and capabilities in support of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan.
      (4)   Update the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan as needed to
keep it current, as required by I.C. 10-14-3-17;
      (5)   Develop a program to test and exercise the Emergency Plan; and
      (6)   Designate local travel advisories pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29.5.
         (a)   Designate the travel advisory as falling into one of the
following categories.
            1.   Advisory.  The lowest level of local travel advisory, means
that routine travel or activities may be restricted in areas because of a
hazardous situation, and individuals should use caution or avoid those areas.
            2.   Watch.  Means that conditions are threatening to the safety of
the public. During a watch local travel advisory, only essential travel, such
as to and from work or in emergency situations, is recommended, and emergency
action plans should be implemented by businesses, schools, government agencies
and other organizations.
            3.   Warning. The highest level of local travel advisory means that
travel may be restricted to emergency management workers only. During a warning
local travel advisory, individuals are directed to:
               a.   Refrain from all travel;
               b.   Comply with necessary emergency measures;
               c.   Cooperate with public officials and disaster services
forces in executing emergency operations plans; and
               d.   Obey and comply with the lawful directions of properly
identified officers.
         (b)   These travel advisories do not restrict persons who are
traveling to:
            1.   Maintain a safe rail system;
            2.   Restore utility service;
            3.   Provide any other emergency public service;
            4.   Traveling to and from work; and
            5.   Traveling for any medical or home emergency.
         (c)   Further and more specific restrictions, including parking
restrictions, may be included in a warning local travel advisory. If the
Emergency Management Agency Director or the Principal Executive Officer of a
political subdivision determines that conditions within the political
subdivision have created the need for travel advisory restrictions without a
local disaster emergency declaration under I.C. 10-3-29, the Emergency
Management Agency Director or the Principal Executive Officer may issue an
advisory or a watch level travel advisory. A warning level travel advisory may
be issued only after a local disaster emergency is declared under I.C. 10-14-3-
29.
   (C)   Budget and finance.
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation
of the budget.
      (2)   The County Council shall appropriate such funds, as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of emergency management.
      (3)   All funds appropriated or otherwise available to the Department of
Emergency Management shall be administered by the Director.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 32.22  COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   A County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, referred to as the
interjurisdictional disaster emergency plan by I.C. 10-14-3-17, shall be
adopted by resolution of the County Board of Commissioners. In the preparation
of this Plan, as it pertains to county organization, it is the intent that the
services, equipment, facilities and personnel of all existing departments and
agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent possible.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall include, at minimum,
the following:
      (1)   An administrative section which includes:
         (a)   Authorities and directives;
         (b)   Terms and definitions;
         (c)   Acronyms/abbreviations; and
         (d)   Financial management;
      (2)   A hazards specific section which includes:
         (a)   Unique hazards; and
         (b)   Special events.
      (3)   An operations section which includes:
         (a)   Coordination and control emergency support function;
         (b)   Communications and warning emergency support function;
         (c)   Public information emergency support function;
         (d)   Resource management emergency support function; and
         (e)   Information and planning emergency support function.
      (4)   An emergency services section which includes:
         (a)   Military emergency support function;
         (b)   Law enforcement emergency support function;
         (c)   Firefighting emergency support function;
         (d)   Transportation emergency support function;
         (e)   Health and medical emergency support function;
         (f)   Search and rescue emergency support function; and
         (g)   Public works/engineering emergency support function.
      (5)   A consequent effects section which includes:
         (a)   Evacuation emergency support function;
         (b)   Shelter/mass care emergency support function;
         (c)   Damage assessment emergency support function;
         (d)   Hazardous materials emergency support function;
         (e)   Radiological protection emergency support function; and
         (f)   Energy emergency support function.
   (C)   In addition, all emergency services within the county shall:
      (1)   Develop standard operating procedures, standard operating guides
and checklists that are drafted subject to the requirements of the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (2)   Coordinate standard operating procedures, standard operating guides
and checklists with the Department of Emergency Management;
      (3)   Assure inclusion of the standard operating procedures, standard
operating guides and checklists within the County Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan;
      (4)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (5)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times; and
      (6)   Handle all emergencies, disasters, exercises and large planned
events utilizing the Incident Command System (ICS).
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 32.23  JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Except as provided by §
32.18, the jurisdiction of the County Department of Emergency Management shall
be comprehensive and inclusive countywide and effective in both the
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   The jurisdiction and applicability of the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan, as adopted pursuant to §
32.22, and the exercise of any powers of the principal executive officer of the
county and of the County Board of Commissioners under §
32.26, shall be comprehensive and inclusive countywide and effective in both
the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (C)   All political subdivisions in the county shall:
      (1)   If they develop a plan for their political subdivision:
         (a)   Ensure that the plan is consistent with the requirements of the
County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
         (b)   Coordinate the development of the plan with the Department of
Emergency Management; and
         (c)   Ensure inclusion of the plan within the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan;
      (2)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (3)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013)  Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.24  TESTS OF COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN AND OTHER TESTS.
   (A)   Tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan may be conducted
at any time with or without prior notification to persons other than the
Director.
   (B)   All emergency tests conducted within the boundaries of the county
shall be coordinated with the Department.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 32.25  COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   In time of normal county operations, powers and duties of the County
Commissioners pertaining to emergency management shall be:
   (A)   Maintaining general supervision over the planning and administration
for the Department;
   (B)   Adopting the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (C)   Coordinating emergency management activities consistent with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (D)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
activities consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (E)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management duties
in order to meet situations not covered in the normal duties and powers of such
agencies consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (F)   Taking all necessary action in coordination with the Department to
conduct tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
   (G)   Educating themselves as to their responsibilities under the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 32.26  COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.
   (A)   Applicability of section. This section shall apply whenever:
      (1)   The Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12, has declared a disaster
emergency affecting all or part of the county;
      (2)   The principal executive officer of the county, pursuant to I.C. 10-
14-3-29(a) and division (C) below, is preparing to, or has declared a local
disaster emergency affecting all or part of the county; and/or
      (3)   The County Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the
county’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and procedures in accordance
with and to the extent necessary or dispensable to such test.
   (B)   Special emergency powers and duties of principal executive officer:
declaration of local disaster emergency.
      (1)   In the event of an actual or threatened disaster emergency
affecting the county, if feasible, the principal executive officer of the
county shall seek the advice and input of the Director as to the advisability
of declaring a local disaster emergency.
      (2)   If the County Board of Commissioners, acting as the principal
executive officer of the county, is the entity declaring the local disaster
emergency, then the statutory requirements contained in I.C. 36-2-2-8 and I.C.
5-14-1.5-5 regarding special and emergency meetings of the County Board of
Commissioner must be met.
      (3)   The principal executive officer of the county may, in the event of
an actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting the county declare a local
disaster emergency, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29. This declaration shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   State the nature of the disaster;
         (c)   State the conditions that have brought the disaster about;
         (d)   State the area or areas threatened;
         (e)   State the area or areas to which the local disaster emergency
declaration applies (this may include the entire county or only designated
parts thereof); and
         (f)   State the effective period of the local disaster emergency
declaration. The disaster declaration shall not be continued or renewed for a
period in excess of seven days except by or with the consent of the County
Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   The declaration of a local disaster emergency, as well as any
continuation or termination of such declaration shall be:
         (a)   Announced or disseminated to the general public by the best
means available; and
         (b)   Filed promptly in the offices of the County Clerk, the County
Auditor and the Clerk of any incorporated municipality located in the declared
disaster area.
      (5)   The declaration shall not be invalidated or ineffective if any of
the filing and dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the
prevailing adverse circumstances.
      (6)   Upon a declaration, the county’s Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan or such component parts thereof as may be relevant to the emergency shall
be activated and implemented.
      (7)   Declaration of a local disaster emergency is not necessary if the
Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12, has already proclaimed a statewide or
areawide disaster emergency that includes the county.
      (8)   Designate local travel advisories pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29,
outlined in §
32.21(B)(6).
   (C)   County Board of Commissioners; convention of special emergency
meeting.
      (1)   As allowed by I.C. 36-2-2-8 and I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), a special
meeting of the County Board of Commissioners shall be called as soon as
possible after the disaster emergency that affects the county has been
declared, either by the Governor or by the principal executive officer of the
county, to perform their legislative and administrative functions as the
situation may demand.
      (2)   As required by I.C. 36-2-2-8(b) and I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), the
following conditions must be met for this meeting:
         (a)   The notice for the meeting must include a specific statement of
the purpose of the meeting;
         (b)   News media that have requested notice of meetings must be given
the same notice as is given the members of the County Board of Commissioners;
         (c)   The public must be notified of this meeting by posting a copy of
the notice at the principal office of the County Board of Commissioners, or if
no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to be held;
         (d)   The County Board of Commissioners may not conduct any business
at this meeting that is unrelated to the disaster emergency declaration; and
         (e)   All other such requirements that are applicable to a meeting
that is called to deal with an emergency.
      (3)   In addition, such a meeting may:
         (a)   Be held in any convenient and available place;
         (b)   Continue without adjournment for the duration of the disaster
emergency; and
         (c)   Be recessed for reasonable periods of time as necessary and
permitted by the circumstances.
   (D)   Principal executive officer: special emergency powers and duties.
      (1)   In the event that a disaster emergency has been declared that
affects all or part of the county, and a quorum of the County Board of
Commissioners cannot be assembled for purposes of the meeting needed under
division (C) above, the principal executive officer of the county shall have,
on an interim basis, all powers of the County Board of Commissioners and may
take all such actions with respect to the disaster emergency declaration that
the County Board of Commissioners would have been authorized to take.
      (2)   When a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is assembled,
these interim powers of the principal executive officer of the county shall
cease.
   (E)   County Board of Commissioners: special emergency powers and duties.
      (1)   At the meeting convened under division (C) above, the County Board
of Commissioners may exercise any of their normal executive and legislative
powers to the extent related to the emergency and necessary to deal therewith.
      (2)   In addition to the powers enumerated in division (E)(1) above, the
Board may also exercise any of the following special and extraordinary powers.
         (a)   The County Board of Commissioners may extend the period of a
local disaster emergency declared by the principal executive officer of the
county, pursuant to division (B) above, to last more than seven days if
necessary.
         (b)   The County Board of Commissioners may terminate the local
disaster emergency.
         (c)   The County Board of Commissioners may assemble and utilize
emergency management resources, including:
            1.   Personnel of the Department of Emergency Management;
            2.   Participating emergency services; and
            3.   Any other resources at the disposal of the Commissioners
hereunder for emergency management purposes.
         (d)   The County Board of Commissioners may order volunteer forces
which have been activated pursuant to the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan to the aid of the county, state or political subdivisions thereof as soon
as practicable. These volunteer forces shall be under the direction of the
Department of Emergency Management.
         (e)   In order to control the local disaster emergency and provide for
public health, safety and welfare, the County Board of Commissioners may, to
the extent permitted by I.C. 10-14-3 and subject to its provisions, command
services and/or requisition the use of:
            1.   Equipment;
            2.   Facilities;
            3.   Supplies; or
            4.   Other property.
         (f)   The County Board of Commissioners may order the evacuation of
all or part of the population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribe:
            1.   Routes;
            2.   Modes of transportation; and
            3.   Evacuation destinations.
         (g)   The County Board of Commissioners may make provision for
availability and use of temporary emergency housing, which housing need not
necessarily comply with any minimum housing standards, building or zoning
regulations, and the like, which would govern the use and location of premises
for housing purposes during normal times.
         (h)   Except in accordance with division (E)(2)(i) below, the County
Board of Commissioners shall not suspend any provisions of ordinances or
procedures, which are mandated by statute.
         (i)   In the event of a disaster emergency that has been declared by
the Governor, the County Board of Commissioners, in accordance with I.C. 10-14-
3-17, may waive any procedures or requirements of statute, or of county
ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and mandates, pertaining to:
            1.   The performance of public works;
            2.   The entering into contracts;
            3.   The incurring of obligations;
            4.   The employment of permanent and temporary workers;
            5.   The utilization of volunteer workers;
            6.   The rental of equipment;
            7.   The purchase and distribution of supplies, materials and
facilities; and
            8.   The appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
         (j)   The County Board of Commissioners may assign any special
emergency duties and functions to county:
            1.   Offices;
            2.   Departments; and
            3.   Agencies.
         (k)   Any unexpended and unencumbered monies budgeted and appropriated
but not otherwise dedicated by law to different purposes may, within the scope
of each major budget and appropriation category (major object classification),
be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying out such special emergency
duties and functions.
         (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17, the County Board of Commissioners
may make, amend and rescind such orders, rules and regulations as may be
necessary for emergency management purposes and to supplement the carrying out
of the provisions of this subchapter. Such orders, rules and regulations:
            1.   Cannot be inconsistent with any orders, rules or regulations
promulgated by the Governor or by any state agency exercising a power delegated
to it by the Governor;
            2.   Cannot be inconsistent with the county’s emergency management
program or Emergency Plan;
            3.   Shall have full force and effect of law when filed in the
office of the County Clerk; and
            4.   Are enforceable by any local or state law enforcing authority
in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17.
         (m)   The County Board of Commissioners may, in accordance with the
Plan, request the state or the United States or their agencies and political
subdivisions to send aid (including financial assistance) if the situation is
beyond the control of the regular and emergency county forces and resources.
      (3)   All actions taken by the County Board of Commissioners under this
section shall be:
         (a)   Adopted by ordinance or resolution pursuant I.C. 10-14-3-17; and
         (b)   Consistent with and subordinate to, any actions, orders or
regulations made by the Governor or a state agency implementing the State
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
   (F)   Officers and employees of incorporated and unincorporated areas of the
county: general duties during emergency. During a declared disaster emergency,
all officers and employees of incorporated and unincorporated areas of the
county shall:
      (1)   Cooperate with and give active support to the County Board of
Commissioners and the County Emergency Management Director; and
      (2)   Comply with all orders, rules and regulations issued pursuant to
this subchapter by the County Board of Commissioners or the County Emergency
Management Director.
   (G)   Noncompliance with emergency orders, rules and regulations:
obstruction or impersonation of emergency management authorities; penalties and
enforcement.
      (1)   Whenever this subchapter applies, it shall be unlawful and a penal
ordinance violation for any person to:
         (a)   Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay the County Board of
Commissioners, the Director of Emergency Management, participating emergency
services, authorized emergency management volunteers or other authorities from
implementing, carrying out and enforcing the Emergency Plan;
         (b)   Fail to observe, abide by and comply with any emergency
management duties, orders, regulations and procedures as made applicable to
such person by the appropriate authorities; or
         (c)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Department of Emergency Management or to otherwise falsely identify or purport
to be a county emergency management authority.
      (2)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the state or any of its
political subdivisions is hereby empowered to issue and serve a civil citation
against any person found to be committing an offense described above.
   (H)   Limitation of liability during disaster emergency or emergency or
emergency management tests. During an emergency management test or declared
disaster emergency, the county, the county’s assigned personnel, participating
emergency services, and rostered emergency management volunteers shall be
immune from liability to the full extent provided by I.C. 10-14-1 and any other
applicable law.
   (I)   Compensation for property commandeered or used during disaster
emergency. Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3, compensation for property shall be paid
only if the property was commandeered or otherwise used in coping with a
disaster emergency and its use or destruction was ordered by the Governor or a
member of the disaster emergency forces of the state. Any person claiming
compensation for the use, damage, loss, or destruction of such property shall
make a claim for it. This claim shall be filed and adjudicated as provided in
I.C. Title 32.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   (A)    Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who operates a vehicle on a county road in violation of an
emergency order prohibiting travel as set forth in §
32.01, commits a Class C infraction, subject to a fine as set by the Board and/
or Council from time to time.
   (C)   Any person who commits an offense as described in §
32.26(G)(1) shall be liable to a fine as set by the Board and/or Council from
time to time, such fine to be subject, however, to the discretion of the court
of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 08, passed 10-9-2007; Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-27-2013)
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCE AND REVENUE; FEES AND COSTS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Capital asset policy; infrastructure assets
   
33.02   Use of funds collected for diversion and deferral programs
   
33.03   Internal control standards
   
33.04   Investment policy
Purchasing and Payments
   
33.15   Pre-payment procedures
   
33.16   Purchasing agents
   
33.17   Purchasing practices
   
33.18   Issuance and use of county credit cards
   Taxes
   
33.30   Public safety; adjusted gross income tax rate
   
33.31   Property tax relief; adjusted gross income tax rate
   
33.32   Sales tax for park rentals or sales
   
33.33   Development income tax
   
33.34   Innkeeper’s tax
Fees and Charges
   
33.45   Inmate medical care reimbursement program
   
33.46   Jail processing fee
   
33.47   Incarceration reimbursement
   
33.48   Electronic map data fees
   
33.49   Health Department fees
   
33.50   Endorsement of real property; transfer fee
   
33.51   Duplicate bills; bad check service fees
   
33.52   Law enforcement fees
   
33.53   Division of tax parcels; fee for filing survey
   
33.54   Enhanced emergency telephone system; fee
   
33.55   Recorder’s office prepaid customer accounts
   
33.56   Manner and form of bulk form copies
   
33.57   County tax sale fee
 
   
33.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Funds, see T.S.O.,
Table I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01  CAPITAL ASSET POLICY; INFRASTRUCTURE ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital asset policy.
      (1)   General information.
         (a)   The county adopts a fixed asset policy that is effective January
1, 2004, and will be known as the capital asset policy. This policy is to
include fixed assets as well as infrastructure assets. The policy is being put
in effect to comply with the provisions of Government Accounting Standards
Board Statement Number 34 and the requirements of the State Board of Accounts.
All provisions of Government Accounting Standards Board Statement Number 34,
except retroactive reporting, will be implemented for fiscal years beginning
January 1, 2004. Retroactive reporting of general infrastructure assets will be
implemented for fiscal years beginning January 1, 2006, and all infrastructure
acquired after Government Accounting Standards Board Statement Number 34
implementation will be reported on a prospective basis. Assets that do not meet
the specified threshold will be expensed in the year of purchase. An inventory
of fixed assets, excluding land, buildings and infrastructure will be housed
within the county’s financial reporting system.
         (b)   The county is adopting this policy to enhance financial and
operational accountability to the citizens of the county and to all other
concerned constituents.
         (c)   The purpose of establishing a capital asset policy is to:
            1.   Comply with the standards of Government Accounting Standards
Board Statement Number 34;
            2.   Maintain accurate records of all fixed assets that are
capitalized, including infrastructure;
            3.   Increase accuracy and clarity of financial reporting; and
            4.   To better serve the citizens of the county and the county’s
constituents.
         (d)   This policy will only serve to classify assets, including fixed
and infrastructure, for accuracy in financial reporting to the State Board of
Accounts.
      (2)   Definition of capital assets.
         (a)   CAPITAL ASSETS are to include: land, land improvements,
buildings, building improvements, machinery and equipment, vehicles,
construction work in progress, easements, works of art, historical treasures
and infrastructure. These assets are to have a cost of greater than $5,000. The
cost of the asset will include all expenses necessary to make the asset fully
operational. Assets acquired through lease purchase agreements that meet these
specifications are to be capitalized. This cost will be determined as the
present value or discounted value of the future stream of lease payments, and
not the total lease. Items that do not meet this determination of capital
assets are to be expensed in the year the asset is acquired.
         (b)   Exceptions:
            1.   Office equipment, which is custom fit to the needs of a
particular office, will be capitalized as a portion of the cost of the building
or area in which they are located. All other office supplies and equipment will
be capitalized if it meets the specified requirements for capitalization; and
            2.   Inexhaustible assets such as land, improvements, artwork,
statues and the like will be reported at cost.
      (3)   Classification of capital assets.
         (a)   Capital assets are to include any item that falls into one of
the following categories: land, land improvements, buildings, building
improvements, machinery and equipment, construction work in progress, vehicles,
easements, works of art and historical treasures.
         (b)   These categories of capital assets are to be defined as follows:
            1.   Land. Consists of all lots, parcels, rights-of-way, easements,
parks, police and fire stations and acreage owned by the county. This is to
include all bodies of water and natural vegetation, which is growing on these
properties.
            2.   Land improvements. Includes such items as retaining walls,
driveways, landscaping, parking areas, sprinkler systems, fencing and other
items that add value to or may be considered an improvement in making the land
ready for its intended use.
            3.   Buildings. Includes all structures erected by the county for
the purpose of conducting business, providing service, or facilitating work to
the citizens of the county. This includes all fixtures and systems within the
building, as well as specifically designed equipment. This may also include all
porches, balconies, canopies, flagpoles, stairwells, fire escapes, patios,
decks and any other attachments that add to the value of the building.
            4.   Building improvements. Items which extend the useful life of
the building are to be capitalized, including remodeling, roofing projects,
energy conservation projects and the like. These items are to be inventoried
including: project description, year completed, funding source and dollar
amount.
            5.   Machinery and equipment. Includes furniture and machinery and
equipment. This may include items such as office equipment, furnishings,
appliances, earth moving equipment, construction equipment, communication
equipment, maintenance equipment, supplies and the like. Items that do not
individually meet the established threshold of $5,000 may be aggregated for
capitalization purposes. This may include computers, library books and the
like.
            6.   Vehicles. Vehicles will be inventoried.
            7.   Easements. An easement is a specific land interest held by the
county that entitles it to a specific use or right to the land. Since an
easement is a right to use, they will not be reported in the financial
statements unless they are owned by the county.
            8.   Works of art and historical treasures. These items are to be
recorded at historical cost.
      (4)   Valuation of capital assets.
         (a)   All fixed assets will be valued at the unit or system level. If
these costs exceed $5,000, they will be capitalized.
            1.   Any expense pertaining to the cost of making the asset
operational may be included in this cost.
            2.   This may include the following:
               a.   Legal and title fees, closing costs;
               b.   Appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying fees;
               c.   Damage payments;
               d.   Land preparation costs, demolition costs;
               e.   Architect, engineering and accounting fees;
               f.   Insurance premiums during construction; and
               g.   Transportation charges.
         (b)   Capital assets are to be recorded at actual cost, which includes
all expenses to make the asset fully operational. If no cost is available,
replacement cost or a historic cost index may be used.
         (c)   Fixed assets will be capitalized when they exceed the sum of
$5,000.
      (5)   Physical inventory and reconciliation policy. All capital assets
will be inventoried every year. A physical inventory will be the responsibility
of each department head to account for all capital assets at year-end, as well
as inventory items that are simply tracked and inventoried. The physical
inventory will include the following items: asset description, year of
acquisition, method of acquisition, funding source, cost or estimate cost and
salvage value. This information will be housed and updated in the county’s
financial reporting system.
      (6)   Capital asset acquisition and obsolescence. Any newly acquired
assets with a value of $5,000 or more are to be reported on the asset form
prescribed by the County Auditor’s office. Any assets with a value of less than
$5,000 which is no longer in use will be stricken from the printouts provided
to each office. Both reports adding assets and removing assets are due in the
Auditor’s office by the first Friday in January of each year.
      (7)   Capital assets disposition and transfer.
         (a)   A distinction will be made by the Commissioners as to whether
the action is a betterment or a replacement. A betterment adds to or extends
the useful life of the asset. These costs are to be added to the current
carrying cost of the asset. A replacement requires that the asset be removed
from the books and a new asset be recorded at cost.
         (b)   Some situations may be considered to be part betterment and part
replacement. This requires determining the distribution of betterment and
replacement. Once the distribution is determined, the respective portions
should be handled in the usual manner for a replacement or betterment. In
situations where assets are traded, the asset is to be removed from the books.
If only one part of the asset is being disposed of, that asset must be removed
from the books using a pro-rata share of the cost.
   (B)   Infrastructure assets.
      (1)   Method of obtaining cost. All infrastructure assets are to be
reported at cost. Cost may include all costs necessary to make the asset fully
operational.
         (a)   These costs may include:
            1.   Legal and title fees, closing costs;
            2.   Appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying fees;
            3.   Damage payments;
            4.   Land preparation costs, demolition cost;
            5.   Architect, engineering and accounting fees;
            6.   Insurance premiums during construction; and
            7.   Transportation charges.
         (b)   All infrastructure exceeding $5,000 will be inventoried.
      (2)   Implementation date and plan for retroactive reporting.
         (a)   All provisions of Government Accounting Standards Board
Statement Number 34, except retroactive reporting is to occur for the fiscal
year January 1, 2004. Retroactive reporting is not required until fiscal years
beginning January 1, 2006.
         (b)   Retroactive reporting will require obtaining historic cost of
all major infrastructure assets that were acquired before Government Accounting
Standards Board Statement Number 34 implementation and after January 1, 1981.
These costs may include all cost necessary to make the asset fully operational.
         (c)   For infrastructure assets where no historic cost is available, a
cost index or replacement cost may be used. It is not sufficient to use
assessment cost for the purpose of retroactive reporting.
      (3)   Infrastructure record keeping requirements.
         (a)   The County Highway Department will be responsible for recording
values of all infrastructure assets in excess of $5,000.
         (b)   These new reporting requirements are mandated by the Government
Accounting Standards Board and are intended to enhance financial and
operational accountability to the citizens of the county and all concerned
constituents.
   (C)   Reporting of capital assets.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BUILDINGS. Buildings are structures designed to house personnel or
equipment. A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking attachments such as roofs, heating, cooling,
plumbing, lighting, sprinkling systems, or any part of the basic building. Each
department will include the cost of items designed or purchased exclusively for
the building.
            (a)   A department's new building will be capitalized only if it
meets both of the following conditions:
               1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
               2.   The useful life is greater than two years.
            (b)   A department improving or renovating an existing building
will capitalize the cost only if the results meet the following conditions:
               1.   The total cost meets or exceeds $5,000; and
               2.   The useful life is extended two or more years.
            (c)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market
value on the known or estimated date of transfer with any associated costs.
Building purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
         CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and
future fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvements of buildings, structures or other fixed assets;
infrastructure, machinery and equipment having an appreciable and calculable
period of usefulness. These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or
addition to the government's general fixed assets.
         CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS. Assets included under this item type are
those buildings or improvements other than buildings that are not completed at
the end of a fiscal year. These assets will be included with noted payments and
dates, including change orders for all services and materials necessary for the
preparation of the building or improvement other than building for its intended
purpose.
            (a)   The county will capitalize construction m progress if the
results meet the following conditions:
               1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
               2.   The asset's useful life is extended two or more years.
         FIXED ASSET. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the
operating activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are
needed for the production and sale of goods or services are termed property,
plant and equipment or fixed assets. These assets are not held for sale in the
ordinary course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items ( e.g. land, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and
fixtures).
         HISTORICAL COST. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or
services at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment, improvements
other than buildings and construction in progress are common examples of assets
recognized under the historical cost attribute.
         IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS. Improvements to land for better
enjoyment. Assets that are attached or not easily removed, and with a life
expectancy of more than two years. Examples are walks, fencing, retaining
walls, pools, outside fountains, planters, underground sprinkling systems and
other related items. The county will capitalize new improvements other than
buildings or renovations to existing improvements other than buildings if the
results meet the following  conditions:
            (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
            (b)   The asset's useful life is extended two or more years.
         INFRASTRUCTURE. Roads, bridges and culverts. The county is not
required to capitalize roads, bridges and culverts retroactively prior to
fiscal year 2009 but will capitalize roads, bridges and culverts acquired
during and following fiscal year 2009. The known or estimated historical costs
of infrastructures will be included infrastructures that are accepted from
subdivision developers or acquired  from other donations shall be included at
the known or estimated cost at the time of receipt of the infrastructure.
         LAND. The county will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of
cost. Original cost of land will include the full value given to the seller,
relocations, legal services incidental to the purchase (including title work
and opinion) appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying and costs for preparing
the land for its intended purpose (including contractors and or county workers
[ salary and benefits]), such as demolishing buildings, excavating, clean up
and inspections. A department will record donated land at fair market value on
the date of transfer plus associated costs. Purchases made using federal or
state funding will follow the source funding policies and above procedures.
         MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT. An apparatus, tool, or conglomerate of
components to form a tool. The tool will stand alone and not become a part of a
basic structure or building. The county will capitalize items with an
individual value equal to or greater than $5,000. Machinery combined with other
machinery to form one unit with a total value equal to or greater than the
above-mentioned limit will be included as one unit. Shipping charges,
consultant fees, and any other costs directly associated with the purchase,
delivery, or set up, (including contractors and/or county workers [salary and
benefits], which make such equipment operable for its intended purpose will be
capitalized. Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment
will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all the following
conditions:
            (a)   Total cost is $5,000 or more; and
            (b)   The useful life is extended by two or more years.
A department will record donated machinery and equipment at fair market value
on the known or estimated date of transfer with any associated costs. Purchases
made using federal or state funding will follow the source funding policies and
above procedures.
         TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the
physical senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard
and smelled.
      (2)   Recording and accounting. The county and its various departments
shall classify capital expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from
which the expenditure was made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the
county's Accounting Manual. The cost of property, plant and equipment includes
all expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use.
For purposes of recording fixed assets of the county and its departments, the
valuation of assets shall be based on historical cost or by estimation of such
costs if historical cost is unknown.
      (3)   Safeguarding assets. Accounting controls shall be designed and
implemented to provide reasonable assurance that:
         (a)   Capital expenditures made by the county and its various
departments shall be in accordance with the Board of Commissioners'
authorization as documented in the minutes.
         (b)   Transactions of the utilities shall be recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.
         (c)   Adequate detailed records shall be maintained to assure
accountability for county owned assets.
         (d)   Access to assets shall be permitted in accordance with Board of
Commissioners' authorization.
         (e)   That recorded accountability for assets shall be compared with
existing assets as least annually and appropriate action be taken regarding any
differences.
(Ord. 04-13, passed 11-22-2004; Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-14-2019)
§ 33.02  USE OF FUNDS COLLECTED FOR DIVERSION AND DEFERRAL PROGRAMS.
   (A)   The funds derived from the prosecutor’s deferral program and the
prosecutor’s pretrial diversion program may only be disbursed for one or more
of the following purposes:
      (1)   Personnel expenses related to the operation of the program;
      (2)   Special training for:
         (a)   A prosecuting attorney;
         (b)   A deputy prosecuting attorney;
         (c)   Support staff for a prosecuting attorney or deputy prosecuting
attorney; or
         (d)   A law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Employment of a deputy prosecutor or prosecutorial support staff;
      (4)   Victim assistance;
      (5)   Electronic legal research;
      (6)   Office equipment, including computers, computer software,
communication devices, office machinery, furnishings and office supplies;
      (7)   Expenses of a criminal investigation and prosecution;
      (8)   An activity or program operating by the prosecuting attorney that
is intended to reduce or prevent criminal activity, including:
         (a)   Substance abuse;
         (b)   Child abuse;
         (c)   Domestic violence;
         (d)   Operating while intoxicated; and
         (e)   Juvenile delinquency.
      (9)   Any other purpose that benefits the office of the prosecuting
attorney or law enforcement and that is agreed upon by the county fiscal body
and the prosecuting attorney.
   (B)   The funds collected by the prosecutor’s office through its diversion
and deferral programs may be used only in accordance with guidelines adopted by
the prosecuting attorneys’ council under I.C. 33-39-8-5.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 33.03  INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The acceptable minimum level of internal control standards and
procedures developed under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) by the SBOA contained in the
Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions manual,
are hereby adopted by Jennings County and that county personnel receive
training concerning the internal control standards and procedures hereby
adopted.
   (B)   Jennings County establishes the following materiality policy under
I.C. 5-11-1-10, 5-11-1- 21 and 5-11-1-27:
      (1)   Materiality, in Jennings County Government, is defined as $500 per
occurrence. That is, if one occurrence of a loss or shortage or other
irregularity is equal or greater than $500, it must be reported to the State
Board of Accounts. The materiality definition is not limited to defalcations or
suspicious activity involving only cash or cash transactions. If supplies,
equipment or other fixed assets belonging to the County are suspected of being
misappropriated or stolen or used in a manner not authorized by Jennings County
officials and the value of those supplies, equipment or fixed assets are
approximately $500 it should be ignored.
      (2)   If there is a series of events, within the same office or
department that appears to be a structuring event to defraud or misappropriate
county funds or property, that even or series of events should be reported.
   (C)   All erroneous or irregular material variances, losses, shortages or
thefts of political subdivision funds or property shall be reported immediately
to the State Board of Accounts. For all material variances, losses, shortages,
or thefts, the State Board of Accounts shall:
      (1)   Determine the amount of funds involved and report the amount to the
appropriate government and law enforcement officials;
      (2)   Determine the internal control weakness that contributed to or
caused the condition; and
      (3)   Make written recommendations to the appropriate legislative body or
appropriate official overseeing the internal control system addressing:
         (a)   The method of correcting the condition; and
         (b)   The necessary internal control policies and internal control
procedures that must be modified to prevent a recurrence of the condition.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27(l), if any Jennings County employee knows
or suspects that other county employees are engaged in fiscal misconduct, it is
his/her responsibility to immediately notify their supervisor or the Board of
Commissioners or if the supervisor or commissioner is involved the County
Attorney, or if the employee has concerns about informing the County Attorney,
then the County Auditor and Prosecuting Attorney are to be contacted.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 33.04  INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Scope. This investment policy supersedes any previous investment
policy and applies to all financial assets of the county.
   (B)   Policy. It is the policy of the county to invest public funds in a
manner which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum
security, while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the county and
conforming to all state and local statutes governing the investment of public
funds.
   (C)   Prudence.
      (1)   The investments shall be made with the judgment and care under the
circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion, and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs; not the
speculation, but for investment; considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the probable income to be derived.
      (2)   The standard of prudence to be used by the Treasurer shall be the
prudent person standard and shall be applied in the context of managing the
overall investment.
      (3)   Under no circumstances may the Treasurer invest in a derivative or
other funds prohibited by law. The Treasurer shall also not make investments
which he or she does not reasonably believe can be held until the maturity
date, or leverage any investment.
   (D)   Objectives. The primary objectives, in priority order, of the county’s
investment activities shall be as follows.
      (1)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the
investment program. Investments of the county’s funds shall be undertaken in a
manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall
portfolio.
      (2)   Return on investment. The county’s investment portfolio shall be
designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the county’s investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
      (3)   Local institution. Local institutions maintaining an office in
Indiana shall be given preference when, in the judgment of the Treasurer, they
are equally competitive with other institutions.
   (E)   Authorized investments. The Treasurer is hereby authorized to invest
the portfolio according to the state statutes governing public funds as stated
in I.C. 5-13, as stated now and as amended in the future. As stated in I.C. 5-
13-9-2, allowable securities are:
      (1)   Securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Treasury, or fully guaranteed by the United States, and issued by any of the
following:
         (a)   The United States Treasury;
         (b)   A federal agency;
         (c)   A federal instrumentality; or
         (d)   A federal government sponsored enterprise;
      (2)   Securities fully guaranteed and issued by any of the following:
         (a)   A federal agency;
         (b)   A federal instrumentality; or
         (c)   A federal government sponsored enterprise; and
      (3)   Municipal securities issued by an Indiana local government entity,
a quasi- governmental entity related to the state, or a unit of government,
municipal corporation, or special taxing district in Indiana, if the issuer has
not defaulted on any of the issuer’s obligations within the 20 years preceding
the date of the purchase.
   (F)   Final maturity. In accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.7, the investment of
public funds in maturities of greater than two years, but no more than five
years, shall be limited to not more than 25% of the total portfolio of public
funds invested by the county, including balances in transaction accounts. The
remainder of the portfolio shall mature no longer than two years from the
investment settlement date.
(Council Ord. 11, passed 12-12-2017)
PURCHASING AND PAYMENTS
§ 33.15  PRE-PAYMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The following categories are designated for pre-approved or pre-
payment procedures:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the U.S. government,
its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is prohibited;
      (6)   Grants or state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease or rental payments;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State or federal taxes;
      (12)   Expenses paid for emergency services;
      (13)   Collect freight deliveries;
      (14)   Conference registration approved by the Board of Commissioners;
      (15)   Reimbursement for conference expenses incurred while attending
approved conferences;
      (16)   Credit card or charge card expenses incurred by county government
offices for lawful purposes;
      (17)   Postage; and
      (18)   Charges for county jail food expenses.
   (B)   Pursuant to Indiana Code, each payment must be fully itemized and each
invoice or bill certified by the County Auditor. The pre-approved or pre-paid
claim must be advertised and approved at the next scheduled meeting of the
County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 4-28-2001; Ord. 2016-5, passed 8-11-2016)
§ 33.16  PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   Designation of purchasing agent. The County Board of Commissioners,
acting in its capacity as purchasing agency for the county, hereby designates
the County Auditor as the purchasing agent for the county pursuant to I.C. 5-
22-1-1 et seq.
   (B)   Duties of purchasing agent. The purchasing agent shall act as an agent
for the purchasing agency in the administration of the duties of the purchasing
agency under I.C. 5-22-1-1 et seq. The purchasing agent shall have only those
powers specified in I.C. 5-22-1-1 et seq. and under §
33.17.
   (C)   Designation of limited purchasing agents.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners, acting in its capacity as
purchasing agency for the county, hereby designates county elected officers and
county department heads as limited purchasing agents for making small purchases
for their respective offices and departments as authorized by §
33.17(C).
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (C), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         COUNTY DEPARTMENT HEADS.  Include the Director of Rescue 20, Director
of County Enhanced 911, clerk of the County Highway Department, County
Sanitarian, Director of the County Area Plan and the County Extension Agent.
         COUNTY ELECTED OFFICERS.  Include the judges of the county circuit and
superior courts, Auditor, Treasurer, Clerk, Recorder, Assessor, Surveyor,
Sheriff and Prosecuting Attorney.
   (D)   Revocation. The designations of purchasing agents and limited
purchasing agents in this section may be revoked at any time by resolution of
the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.17  PURCHASING PRACTICES.
   (A)   Designation of purchasing agency. The County Board of Commissioners is
hereby designated as the purchasing agency for all boards, offices,
commissions, councils, departments or other establishments of the county.
   (B)   Powers of the purchasing agency. The purchasing agency designated in
division (A) above shall:
      (1)   Assume the duties, powers and responsibilities assigned to
purchasing agencies under I.C. 5-22-1-1 et seq.;
      (2)   Establish procedures, not inconsistent with I.C. 5-22-1-1 et seq.
or this section, for obtaining supplies or services in a manner which will
obtain the greatest economic value for the county;
      (3)   Prepare specifications and notice to bidders and ascertain that
required notices are published where bidding and publication of notices are
required by law;
      (4)   Designate in writing a purchasing agent to carry out the purposes
of this section. Such purchasing agent shall act as the agent for the
purchasing agency in the administration of the duties of the purchasing agency
under I.C. 5-22-1-1 et seq. The purchasing agent may not make purchases except
as provided in division (C)(4) below; and
      (5)   Designate in writing such limited purchasing agents as the
purchasing agency deems appropriate and define in writing the limitations of
their authority consistent with division (C)(4) below.
   (C)   Small purchase procedures.
      (1)   A small purchase is a purchase of supplies with an estimated cost
of less than $25,000.
      (2)   The purchasing agency may make a small purchase on the open market
without inviting or receiving quotes or bids.
      (3)   A purchasing agent is authorized to purchase supplies with an
estimated cost of less than $5,000 on the open market without inviting or
receiving quotes or bids.
      (4)   A limited purchasing agent is authorized to purchase supplies with
an estimated cost of $1,000 on the open market without inviting or recovering
quotes or bids.
   (D)   Preference for supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all purchases by the
purchasing agency and shall be purchased unless the purchasing agency
determines in writing that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The price of supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds by
an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (E)   Purchase of services.
      (1)   As used in this section, the term SERVICES means the furnishing of
labor, time or effect by a person, not involving the delivery of specific
supplies other than printed documents or other items that are merely incidental
to the required performance, including, but not limited to, legal, medical,
architectural, accounting, engineering, appraisal and insurance services. 
      (2)   The purchasing agency may purchase services in whatever manner the
purchasing agency determines to be reasonable and appropriate.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.18  ISSUANCE AND USE OF COUNTY CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   Oversight of credit card use and issuance. The County Auditor is
responsible for issuing, accounting for, monitoring, and generally overseeing
compliance with this policy. All credit card applications must be approved and
issued by the Auditor.
   (B)   Requests for credit cards. Requests for credit cards by county
employees, including elected office holders, must be submitted in writing to
the Auditor. The request must identify the person to whom the credit card will
be issued and include a proposed monthly total credit limit.
   (C)   Review of credit card applications. Upon receiving a request for a
credit card from an employee, the Auditor shall present the request to the
Commissioners for review. The Commissioners shall approve or deny each credit
card request.
   (D)   Persons authorized to use credit cards. A card issued to an employee
is to be used by that employee only. The Auditor or the Commissioners may, at
any time and without notice to the employee, and with or without cause, cancel
the credit card.
   (E)   Record keeping. The Auditor shall maintain a list of all credit cards
issued to county employees. Each employee shall sign a form acknowledging
receipt of the credit card, and that the employee has received, read, and
understands this policy.
   (F)   Authorized uses. County credit cards are the property of the county
and may be used only for the purchase of goods or services for the official
business of the county. Personal use of county credit cards is expressly
prohibited, even if the employee later reimburses the county for purchases made
for personal use.
   (G)   Identification as government employees. Employees who use a credit
card have a duty to present themselves as government employees to the point of
purchase and present sales tax exemption for ST-105 to ensure that the county
is not charged state sales tax.
   (H)   Documentation of purchases. County employees who use a credit card
shall submit the vendor’s itemized receipt to the Auditor, and a voucher signed
by the employee’s department head indicating that the purchase should be
approved for payment, the nature of the official business that required the
transaction, the credit card account number, and the budget line item to which
the transaction is to be charged. The credit card cannot be used to bypass the
county’s accounting system.
   (I)   Review of credit card statements. The Auditor’s Office shall review
each credit card statement and all documentation submitted by county employees
to ensure that transactions comply with this policy. Any transactions that are
not documented with an itemized credit card receipt and a signed voucher shall
be immediately investigated. Transactions that do not appear to comply with
this policy shall be reported to the Commissioners.
   (J)   Approval for payment. The Commissioners shall not approve a payment to
the entity issuing the credit card until all transactions have been verified.
   (K)   Payment of credit cards. Each month, the balance due on the credit
cards for all verified transactions shall be paid when due to avoid the
assessment of interest and late charges.
   (L)   Lost or stolen credit cards. An employee who is issued a credit card
is responsible for its protection and custody. If a credit card is lot or
stolen, the official or employee shall notify the Auditor as soon as possible.
The Auditor shall contact the entity issuing the lost or stolen credit card
immediately and request it be canceled.
   (M)   Return of credit card upon termination of employment. An employee
issued a credit card shall return the credit card to the Auditor upon
termination of his or her employment or service with the county.
   (N)   Responsibility for credit card misuse. County employees shall have
personal liability for the payment of transactions that do not comply with this
policy.
   (O)   Credit card issued to the Sheriff or Sheriff’s Department. The
Jennings County Sheriff and the Jennings County Auditor shall be responsible
for the issuing, accounting for, monitoring, and generally overseeing
compliance with this policy. A credit card application by the Sheriff or
Sheriff’s Department must be approved and cosigned by the Jennings County
Sheriff. The same requirements shall apply as set forth above for any Deputies
utilizing the credit card issued to the Sheriff’s Department.
   (P)   Rewards points and/or card use benefits. Any reward points, benefits,
cash back bonus, or discounts, if applicable, shall be utilized solely for the
purchase of goods or service for official county business. No elected official,
employee, or Deputy may utilize the reward points, benefits, cash back bonus,
or discounts for personal use or de minimis fringe benefits and/or gifts.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 11-8-2018)
TAXES
§ 33.30  PUBLIC SAFETY; ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME TAX RATE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-25(b), the Council hereby
imposes the public safety county adjusted gross income tax rate on the county
taxpayers of the county (the “rate for public safety”). The rate for public
safety is imposed at a rate of 0.25%.
   (B)   The rate for public safety shall take effect January 1, 2015.
   (C)   The County Adjusted Gross Income Tax (CAGIT) revenue attributable to
the rate for public safety shall be in addition to any other CAGIT rates
imposed on the taxpayers of the county and shall be used pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-25 and other state law.
   (D)   The Auditor shall immediately transmit a certified copy of this
section to the Commissioner of the Department of Revenue, the Director of the
Budget Agency and the Commissioner of the Department of Local Government
Finance in electronic format, in accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-25(d).
   (E)   The Auditor and any officer of the Council are hereby authorized and
directed to take any and all other actions on behalf of the county as may be
necessary, appropriate or desirable to carry out the purposes of this section
in accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-1.1 et seq. and this section.
(Council Ord. 6, 2014, passed 10-21-2014)
§ 33.31  PROPERTY TAX RELIEF; ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME TAX RATE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-26, the Council hereby
imposes the property tax relief county adjusted income tax rate on the county
taxpayers to raise income tax revenue to provide property tax relief to
taxpayers in the county (the “rate for property tax relief”). The rate for
property tax relief is imposed at a rate of 0.25%.
   (B)   The rate for property tax relief shall be applied in the allocations
as follows:
      (1)   One hundred percent of revenues from the rate for property tax
relief shall be used to provide local property tax replacement credits at a
uniform rate to all taxpayers in the county. The local property tax replacement
credits shall be treated for all purposes as property tax levies. The County
Auditor shall determine the local property tax replacement credit percentage
for a particular year based on the amount of tax revenue that will be used
under this division (B)(1) to provide local property tax replacement credits in
that year. The Council has made available to the public the Council’s best
estimate of the amount of property tax replacement credits to be provided under
this division (B)(1) to homesteads, other residential property, commercial
property, industrial property and agricultural property. The Council
acknowledges that some taxpayers in the county that do not pay the rate for
property tax relief will receive a property tax replacement credit that is
funded with tax revenue from the rate for property tax relief.
      (2)   Zero percent of revenues from the rate for property tax relief
shall be used to uniformly provide the homestead credit percentage in the
county. The homestead credits shall be treated for all purposes as property tax
levies. The homestead credits do not reduce the basis for determining any state
homestead credit. The homestead credits shall be applied to the net property
taxes due on the homestead after the application of all other assessed value
deductions or property tax deductions and credits that apply to the amount owed
under I.C. 6-1.1. The County Auditor shall determine the homestead credit
percentage for a particular year based on the amount of tax revenue from the
rate for property tax relief that will be used under this division (B)(2) to
provide homestead credits in that year.
      (3)   Zero percent of revenues from the rate for property tax relief
shall be used to provide local property tax replacement credits at a uniform
rate for all qualified residential property (as defined in I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-1) in
the county. The local property tax replacement credits shall be treated for all
purposes as property tax levies. The County Auditor shall determine the local
property tax replacement credit percentage for a particular year based on the
amount of tax revenue from the rate for property tax relief that will be used
under this division (B)(3) to provide local property tax replacement credits in
that year.
   (C)   The rate for property tax relief shall take effect January 1, 2015.
   (D)   The  County Adjusted Gross Income Tax (CAGIT) revenue attributable to
the rate for property tax relief shall be in addition to any other CAGIT rates
imposed on the taxpayers of the county and shall be used pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-26 and state law.
   (E)   The County Auditor shall immediately transmit a certified copy of this
section to the Commissioner of the Department of Revenue, the director of the
budget agency and the Commissioner of the Department of Local Government
Finance in electronic format, in accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-26(d).
   (F)   The County Auditor and any officer of the Council are hereby
authorized and directed to take any and all other actions on behalf of the
county as may be necessary, appropriate or desirable to carry out the purposes
of this section in accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-1.1 and this section.
(Council Ord. 05, 2014, passed 10-14-2014)
§ 33.32  SALES TAX FOR PARK RENTALS OR SALES.
   The County Park Director shall charge, collect and pay state sales taxes on
all rental or sales activities at the county park.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 33.33  DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX.
   (A)   The County Council hereby imposes a county economic development income
tax on the county taxpayers. The county economic development income tax is
imposed at the rate of 0.25% on the adjusted gross income of the county
taxpayers of the county.
   (B)   The tax shall be distributed by population rather than abstract levy.
(Council Ord. 95-2, passed 3-30-1995; Council Ord. passed 9-18-1995)
§ 33.34  INNKEEPER’S TAX.
   (A)   The County Council imposes the county innkeeper’s tax on the taxpayers
of the county as defined in I.C. 6-9-18-3.
   (B)   The county innkeeper’s tax is imposed at a rate of 5% on the gross
retail income derived from lodging (not to exceed 5%).
   (C)   This tax shall be reported on forms approved by the County Treasurer
and shall be paid on a monthly basis to the County Treasurer pursuant to I.C.
6-9-18-3.
(Council Ord. 9-94, passed 11-21-1994)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 33.45  INMATE MEDICAL CARE REIMBURSEMENT PROGRAM.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 11-12-5-5, the Board of Commissioners hereby elects
to implement the provisions of this program.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 11-12-5-5(b) the Board of Commissioners shall set the
following schedule of cost of co-payments and additional healthcare related
services.
      (1)   Any inmate in the county jail will be charged rates as set by the
Board and/or Council from time to time for routine medical care, including
inmates who are being held out of county including State Department of
Corrections holds, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) holds, and inmates
serving weekend sentences.
      (2)   No charge for those supplying their own prescriptions after the
initial set up fee. No charge for exams required by the jail.
      (3)   No one will be denied medical care due to the inability to pay at
the time of service.
         (a)   A negative balance will be carried for a period of 60 days.
         (b)   A person who is subject to lawful detention and has private
health coverage or Medicaid will be responsible for healthcare services
rendered prior to and during incarceration.
         (c)   Specialty and non-emergency consults or follow up with ob/gyn,
ortho, optometry, psychiatric, lab, x-ray and dental will be at actual cost
unless otherwise ordered.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 11-12-5-7(b) the courts may order persons meeting the
criteria set forth in the program to execute a reimbursement plan and make
repayments under the plan to the county for the costs permitted, as a term of
the sentence imposed.
   (D)   Certain costs for emergency, non-emergency and specialty follow-up
services provided to inmates may be subject to court order for reimbursement to
the county as a term of sentencing.
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners hereby directs the County Sheriff to
collect and account for the inmate medical cost reimbursement payments pursuant
to this program.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a separate, non-
reverting fund for the placement of the funds and court judgments collected
pursuant to the program to be designated as the County Inmate Medical Care
Reimbursement Program Fund. Said fund will be used for indirect costs of inmate
care, purchase and replacement of durable medical equipment and to support
state compliance to implement and maintain electronic medical records and items
not covered in a current contract or reimbursed.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 6-26-2014)
§ 33.46  JAIL PROCESSING FEE.
   (A)   Any person who is:
      (1)   Sentenced for a felony or a misdemeanor;
      (2)   Subject to lawful detention as defined in I.C. 35-41-l-18 in the
county jail and is ordered to serve said detention on an intermittent basis;
and
      (3)   Not detained as a child subject to the jurisdiction of a juvenile
court;
Shall reimburse the county a sum, as shall be set by the Board and/or Council
from time to time, each time the person checks into the county jail to serve
any part of his or her intermittent detention.
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall collect the amounts due from a period under
this section and deposit said funds into the Non-Reverting County Prisoner
Reimbursement Fund.
   (C)   The County Sheriff shall provide to the County Council an annual
report for the Non-Reverting County Prisoners Reimbursement Fund. This report
is to be submitted at the regular scheduled meeting in February of each year
reflecting the beginning balance, the ending balance, the receipts during the
year and a summary of the disbursements during the year.
   (D)   All monies collected under this section shall be used for the purpose
of funding courthouse security and general operating expenses of the jail.
(Council Ord. 01-09, passed - -; Council Ord. 08-02, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 08-
02, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 33.47  INCARCERATION REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON.  An individual who is:
         (a)   Sentenced to lawful detention in a county for a felony or a
misdemeanor;
         (b)   Subject to lawful detention in a county jail for a period of
more than 72 hours;
         (c)   Not a member of a family that makes less than 150% of the
federal income poverty level; and
         (d)   Not detained as a child subject to the jurisdiction of a
juvenile court.
   (B)   Each person shall reimburse the county for the sum of the following
amounts:
      (1)   The lesser of:
         (a)   The per diem amount specified by the County Council in an amount
that is reasonably related to the average daily cost of housing a person in the
county jail; or
         (b)   Thirty dollars multiplied by each day or part of a day that the
person is lawfully detained in the county jail or lawfully detained under I.C.
35-33-11-3 for more than six hours; and
      (2)   The direct cost of investigating whether the person is indigent;
and
      (3)   The cost of collecting the amount for which the person is liable
under this section.
   (C)   The County Sheriff shall collect the amounts due from a person under
this section in conformity with the procedures specified in this section under
division (B) above. If the County Sheriff does not collect the amount due to
the county, the County Attorney may collect the amount due. The Sheriff shall
either present each person with a statement of the known reimbursement amounts
upon the person’s release or mail a copy of the statement to the person
following the person’s release. If the statement is not paid in full within 30
days of its presentment or mailing, the Sheriff may turn the matter over to
County Attorney, a private attorney or a collection agency engaged by the
Sheriff, for collection.
   (D)   The County Commissioners elect to establish a Non-Reverting County
Prisoner Reimbursement Fund (I.C. 36-2-13-16) as follows.
      (1)   All amounts collected under this section must be deposited in the
County Prisoner Reimbursement Fund.
      (2)   Any amount earned from the investment of amounts in the fund become
part of the Fund.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other law, upon appropriation by the county
fiscal body amounts in the Fund may be used by the county only for the
operation, construction, repair,  remodeling, enlarging and equipment of:
         (a)   A county jail; or
         (b)   A juvenile detention center to be operated under I.C. 31-31-8 or
I.C. 31-31-9.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-14-2007)
§ 33.48  ELECTRONIC MAP DATA FEES.
   (A)   Title. This section and any parts herein shall be known as the county
electronic map ordinance.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC MAP DATA.  Copyrighted data created and provided by a public
agency from an electronic geographic information system.
      PERSON.  In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-2, an individual, a corporation,
a limited liability company, a partnership, an unincorporated association or a
governmental entity.
   (C)   Fee schedule.  Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(j), the county may charge a
fee, uniform to all persons for providing electronic map data that is based
upon a reasonable percentage of the county’s direct cost of maintaining
upgrading and enhancing the electronic map and for the direct cost of supplying
the electronic map in the form requested by the person.
      (1)   In the case where disclosable and nondisclosable electronic map
data are combined, I.C. 5-14-3-6 provides that the county may charge a
reasonable fee for the county’s direct cost of computer programming to separate
disclosable from nondisclosable electronic map data.
      (2)   It is hereby established by the County Commissioners and County
Council that the initial fee schedule for the transmission of electronic map
data is as set forth below.
         (a)   Complete map data layers.
            1.   An annual fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time, paid in advance, for the continuous transmission of available and
disclosable countywide non-photo electronic map data layers.
            2.   A fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time,
paid in advance for a one time delivery of available and disclosable countywide
non-photo electronic map data layers delivered on a CD.
            3.   A fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time,
paid in advance, for a one time delivery of a county’s most recent aerial photo
layer delivered on CDs.
         (b)   Subsets of map data layers (for less than countywide areas). A
fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time per hour for the
preparation of one time specifically requested subsets of county electronic map
data.
         (c)   Separating disclosable and nondisclosable data. A fee as set by
the Board and/or Council from time to time per hour for computer programming
required to separate disclosable and nondisclosable electronic map data if this
is required as part of a one time map data request.
      (3)   If the county contracts with a third party contractor to handle the
transmission of county electronic map data, the third party contractor shall
receive two-thirds, and the county one-third of the fees charged the person for
electronic map data. This fee schedule shall be reviewed on an annual basis and
may be changed on an annual basis to reflect the change in the cost in
providing the electronic map data.
   (D)   Exceptions to fee schedule. 
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k) any public agency, as defined by I.C.
5-14-3-2, located within the county or within adjacent counties that agree to
share with the county any electronic map information that that public agency
might have, if any, that is of the same type as is being shared by the county,
the county will agree to automatically approve a data sharing application with
that public agency and waive that portion of the electronic map fee that would
otherwise be retained by the county.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k) the county’s retained portion of the
electronic map fee shall be waived at the county’s discretion if the use of the
electronic map data will be used for a noncommercial purpose, including the
following: public agencies that do not agree to share with the county the same
type of electronic map data being provided by the county, nonprofit activities,
journalism and/or academic research.
   (E)   Third party contractor. In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-3.6, electronic
map information may be provided to person(s) through the county’s own computer
gateway, or by agreement through a computer gateway of a third party
contractor. I.C. 5-14-3-3.6(e) provides that a contract entered into under this
section may require the payment of a reasonable fee to either the third party
contractor, the county, or both. In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-4, neither the
county nor the third party contractor shall disclose electronic map data that
is specifically excepted from disclosure requirements.
   (F)   Payment. Where the county is using its own computer gateway for the
provision to persons of electronic map data, payment shall be made by the
persons at the time of delivery. Where the county has entered into an agreement
with a third party contractor to provide electronic map data through the third
party contractor’s computer gateway, the third party contractor shall handle
the billing and invoicing of the fees charged and shall agree to send by U.S.
mail that portion of the fee due the county to the County’s Electronic Map
Generation Fund within ten business days of the receipt of payment of fees to
the third party contractor by the person making the purchase.
   (G)   Compliance with state statutes. Nothing herein shall compel any office
or their contracted third party contractor to charge a fee for copies if the
fee imposed by this section is contrary to state law. In the event the fees in
this section are contrary to any charges established by state statute, the
state statute shall apply.
   (H)   Use restrictions and notice. Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-
3-3(e), no person, other than those authorized in writing by the Board of
Commissioners, may use the electronic map data provided by the county for
commercial purposes, including to sell, advertise or solicit the purchase of
merchandise, goods or services, or sell, loan, give away or otherwise deliver
the information obtained by request to any other person for these purposes.
This includes the repackaging or assimilation of electronic map data for a
commercial purpose in paper or electronic media.
      (1)   A person who uses information in a manner contrary to this section
or a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3 may be prohibited by the
county from obtaining any electronic map data.
      (2)   The following notice regarding data ownership, restrictions and
qualifications shall be provided to every person that receives a copy of the
county’s electronic map data.
         “County electronic map data is the property of the county. All
electronic map data supplied by the county has been derived from public records
that are constantly undergoing change and is not warranted for content or
accuracy. The county does not guarantee the positional or thematic accuracy of
the data. The cartographic digital file server is not a legal representation of
any of the features depicted, and the county disclaims any assumption of the
legal status they represent. Any implied warranties, including warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, shall be and/or expressly
excluded. The data represents an actual reproduction of data contained in the
county’s computer files. This data may be incomplete or inaccurate, and is
subject to modifications and changes. Therefore, the county cannot be held
liable for errors or omissions in the data. The recipient’s uses and reliance
upon such data is at the recipient’s risk. By using this data, the recipient
agrees to protect, hold harmless and indemnify the county and its employees and
officers. This indemnity covers reasonable attorney’s fees and all court costs
associated with the defense of the county arising out of this disclaimer. The
recipient may copy this data into computer memory or onto computer storage
devices and prepare derivative works from it for the recipient’s own use.
         Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person, other than
those authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners may use the
electronic map data provided by the county for commercial purposes, including
to sell, advertise or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods or services,
or sell, loan, give away or otherwise deliver the information obtained by
request to any other person for these purposes. A person who uses information
in a manner contrary to a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3(e) may
be prohibited by the Board of Commissioners from obtaining any electronic map
data.
         Please refer to County Ordinance 2004-04-07 for any other restrictions
on the use of electronic map data or penalties for the misuse of electronic map
data.”
      (3)   A copy of the language contained in this section shall be
conspicuously posted in all offices where electronic map data is sold in the
county, and shall be provided to any person (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) who
desires to purchase electronic map data from the county.
   (I)   Violation.  Any person who violates the terms and conditions of this
section by failing to pay for purchased electronic map data shall be liable for
total fee charged for the electronic map data plus attorney’s fees and the cost
of collection.
   (J)   Electronic map generation fund. Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8.5, the
County Council hereby establishes the County Electronic Map Generation Fund.
      (1)   The Electronic Map Generation Fund shall consist of fees charged
for providing electronic map data to persons in accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8
(j) and be subject to the appropriation by the County Council.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8.5(b), all funds collected in the
Electronic Map Generation Fund shall be specifically dedicated to the following
purposes:
         (a)   The maintenance, upgrading and enhancement of the electronic
map;
         (b)   The reimbursement of expenses incurred by a public agency in
supplying an electronic map in the form requested by the person; and
         (c)   The maintenance, upgrading and enhancement of the county web
page.
   (K)   Dispute resolution. Any person who has a dispute or seeks relief from
the terms of this section may seek resolution of that dispute or relief from
the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 10-17-2006; Council Ord. 06-03, passed 10-17-2006) 
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.49  HEALTH DEPARTMENT FEES.
   (A)   Authority to charge service fee plus costs for providing services. The
County Health Department is hereby authorized to charge a service fee plus
costs for providing to any person the following services:
      (1)   For any health services provided through the County Health
Department including, but not limited to, injections and screenings;
      (2)   For services provided by the County Health Department in providing
a copy of a certificate of birth and death;
      (3)   For services provided in home loan inspections including, but not
limited to, waste water systems;
      (4)   For services provided in the inspection of public eating and
drinking establishments, retail food markets, itinerant food stands and semi
public food service establishments to obtain a permit for license for food
markets and eating and drinking establishments in the county; and
      (5)   For supervision and inspection of sanitary installations as
required by
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances, as the same is amended or may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   Fees schedule. The County Board of Health is hereby authorized to
charge fees for the services described in division (A) above of this section
based upon the following schedule:
      (1)   Food service establishment - permanent location. Fees as set by the
Board and/or Council from time to time.
      (2)   Food markets. Fees as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time.
      (3)   Temporary food service.
         (a)   For each event of operation: a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time per unit.
         (b)   Three or more events of operation in the county annual: a fee as
set by the Board and/or Council from time to time.
         (c)   A separate license shall be required for each retail food
establishment or temporary food establishment operated or to be operated by any
person. A license issued under this section is not transferable.
         (d)   Establishment personnel certification fee: a fee as set by the
Board and/or Council from time to time every three years.
      (4)   Minimum requirements for retail food establishments. All retail
food establishments and vending machines shall comply with the minimum
requirements specified by the State Department of Health Retail Food
Establishment Sanitation Requirements in Title 410 I.A.C. 7-20, two copies of
which are on file in the office of the County Clerk for public inspection.
      (5)   Organizations/non-profit organization. All organizations/non-profit
organizations that are opened for more than 30 days of operation per year will
be charged the minimum annual fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time
to time.
      (6)   On-site waste water disposal. Permit fee.
         (a)   For repairs/replace: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council
from time to time.
         (b)   For new: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time.
      (7)   Housing loan inspections. Pre-existing septic system inspection
fee: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time.
      (8)   Certifications.  Septic contractor installers certification: a fee
as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time per contractor/employee.
      (9)   Birth certificate.
         (a)   Regular: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time.
         (b)   Regular/laminated: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council from
time to time.
      (10)   Death certificates.
         (a)   Certified copy: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council from
time to time.
         (b)   Affidavit of amendment fee: a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time (includes corrected birth certificates).
      (11)   Laminating.  Each item: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council
from time to time.
      (12)   Injections.
         (a)   Hepatitis A and B: At cost (an administrative fee as set by the
Board and/or Council from time to time will be added to the cost of the
vaccine.)
         (b)   Flu: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time.
         (c)   Other injections: At cost (an administrative fee as set by the
Board and/or Council from time to time will be added to the cost of the
vaccine.)
      (13)   Screenings.
         (a)   PPD (TB skin testing): a fee as set by the Board and/or Council
from time to time.
         (b)   Second PPD: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time
to time.
         (c)   Cholesterol screening: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council
from time to time.
   (C)   Collection, accounting, and disposition.
      (1)   Collection of fees. The County Health Department shall collect such
fees in accordance with the schedule of fees shown in division (B) above of
this section.
      (2)   Accounting for fees. All fees collected by the County Health
Department shall be accounted for in detail for each program service area.
      (3)   Health service fees - other health jurisdictions.  Fees collected
for health services provided individuals and other units of government which
involve costs for providing such services from the county tax revenue shall be
collected in accordance with any contract or agreement which may be entered
into from time to time between the County Health Department and other units of
government, subject to approval of the Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   Exemption from compliance. An organization that is exempt from the
state gross income tax under I.C. 6-2.1-3-20 through I.C. 6-2.1-3-22 and that
offers food for sale to the final consumer at an event held for the benefit of
the organization is exempt from complying with the requirements of this section
that may be imposed upon the sale of food at that event if:
         (a)   Members of the organization prepare the food that will be sold;
         (b)   Events conducted by the organization under this section take
place for no more than 30 days in any calendar year; and
         (c)   The name of each member who has prepared a food item is attached
to the container in which the food item has been placed.
      (5)   Minimum requirements for retail food establishments. All retail
food establishments and vending machines shall comply with the minimum
requirements specified by the State Department of Health Retail Food
Establishment Sanitation Requirements Title 410 I.A.C. 7-20, two copies of
which are on file in the office of the County Auditor for public inspections.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 33.50  ENDORSEMENT OF REAL PROPERTY; TRANSFER FEE.
   (A)   The Auditor of the county shall collect a fee as set by the Board and/
or Council from time to time for each real property endorsement the Auditor
makes in accord with I.C. 36-2-11-14 to allow a deed of partition or conveyance
to be placed of record.
   (B)   The Auditor shall place the revenue received for this endorsement in a
dedicated fund for use in maintaining plat books.
(Council Ord. 2002-02-04, passed 5- -2002; Ord. 2019-5, passed 6-27-2019)
§ 33.51  DUPLICATE BILLS; BAD CHECK SERVICE FEES.
   The following charges shall be made by the County Treasurer:
   (A)   For all duplicate tax bills: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council
from time to time each;
   (B)   For all checks which are returned to the Treasurer’s office by the
bank regardless of the reason for such return: a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time. There shall be a charge for each returned check; and
   (C)   All monies generated for this service shall be placed in the Education
and Training Fund #3-3-8, for the Treasurer’s office and staff training.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 3- -2002; Ord. 2012-11, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 33.52  LAW ENFORCEMENT FEES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff shall charge a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time for crime summaries, a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time for accident reports and also a fee as set by the
Board and/or Council from time to time per digital picture and a fee as set by
the Board and/or Council from time to time for regular photo. All monies
collected shall be deposited in the County Accident Fund.
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall charge a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time for criminal record checks. All monies collected
shall be deposited in the Criminal Records Fund.
   (C)   The County Sheriff shall charge a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time for vehicle identification number checks. All monies
collected shall be deposited in the County Sheriff’s V.I.N. Fund.
   (D)   The County Sheriff shall provide to the County Council annual reports
for the County Accident Fund, the Criminal Records Fund and the Sheriffs V.I.N.
Fund. These reports are to be submitted at the regularly scheduled meeting in
February of each year reflecting the beginning balance, the ending balance, the
receipts during the year and a summary of the disbursements during the year.
(Council Ord. 01-08, passed 5-1-2001)
§ 33.53  DIVISION OF TAX PARCELS; FEE FOR FILING SURVEY.
   (A)   When a tract of real estate that comprises a single tax parcel, under
a common owner, is divided, in part, by transfer of ownership, no document of
transfer may be recorded by the County Recorder unless accompanied by a survey
showing the boundaries of the tract to be transferred and the boundaries of the
remaining tract.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SURVEY. 
         (a)   A drawing prepared by a civil engineer duly licensed in the
state; or
         (b)   A drawing or reliable evidence prepared by the seller showing:
            1.   The boundaries of each newly created tract of real estate;
            2.   The number of acres of each newly created tract of real
estate;
            3.   The location of improvements on each newly created tract of
real estate;
            4.   The location within the original tract of each newly created
tract of real estate; and
            5.   The name of each owner of each newly created tract.
(Ord. 4-94, passed 4-18-1994)
§ 33.54  ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM; FEE.
   (A)   Authority. Under the authority of and subject to I.C. 36-8-16 an
enhanced emergency telephone system is hereby established together with a fee
system to provide for the funding of an enhanced emergency telephone system to
serve Jennings County. This fee shall be collected from the telephone service
users of Jennings County and administered in accordance with the following
terms.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM. A telephone system that utilized the
three digit number 911 to send automatic number identification and automatic
location identification for reporting police, fire medical or other emergency
situations.
      EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY.
         (a)   The access from a particular service user’s premises to a
telephone system.
         (b)   The term includes:
            1.   An access line;
            2.   A private branch exchange (PBX) trunk; and
            3.   A centrex line trunk equivalent; that is provided by the
service supplier. The term also includes a mobile telephone system access
trunk, whether the trunk is provided by a telephone company or a radio common
carrier.
         (c)   The term does not include:
            1.   A service supplier owned and operated telephone pay station
line;
            2.   A wide are telecommunications service (WATS) line;
            3.   A foreign exchange (FX) line; or
            4.   An incoming only line.
      SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person who provides exchange telephone service to a
service user.
      SERVICE USER. A person to whom exchange telephone service is provided.
   (C)   Fee. A monthly fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time per telephone access line or other exchange access facility will be
collected by the service supplier to pay the lease, purchase or maintenance of
enhanced emergency telephone equipment, including necessary computer hardware,
software and date base provisioning; the rates associated with the service
suppliers’ enhanced emergency telephone system network services and personnel
expenses of the emergency telephone system.
   (D)   Administrative fee. The service supplier(s) shall be entitled to
retain an administrative fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time as compensation for collecting the fees.
   (E)   Remittance. All monthly fees collected except for the administrative
fee shall be remitted to the Treasurer of Jennings County within 30 days after
the last day of the month. With the fee remittal, the service supplier shall
provide a fee collection report on a form provided by the Jennings County
Auditor.
   (F)   Fund. The Jennings County Treasurer shall deposit the remitted fees in
a separate fund named the Jennings County Emergency Telephone System Fund. The
Jennings County Treasurer may invest monies in the fund in the same manner that
other monies of the county are invested with the interest earned from such
investment to be deposited in that fund.
   (G)   Delinquent fee report. During January of each year, each service
supplier that collects the enhanced emergency telephone system fee for the
county shall provide a delinquent fee report to the Jennings County Treasurer.
The report shall list the name, address and amount due for each service user
who is two or more months delinquent in paying the fee.
   (H)   Effective date. Each service supplier shall commence collecting the
enhanced telephone system fee from its service users in the month of January,
1992.
(Council Ord. 1991-1, passed 11-19-1991; County Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-2010)
§ 33.55  RECORDER’S OFFICE PREPAID CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   A prepaid account will be established for each individual that desires
to establish a prepaid account.
   (B)   Funds will be withdrawn from the prepaid account at the time of any
transaction.
   (C)   A prepaid account shall maintain a positive balance at all times. A
customer will not be able to complete a transaction until there is a positive
balance in the account.
   (D)   A refund will be refunded if the customer closes their prepaid account
and has a positive balance.
   (E)   The prepaid account will avoid the need for any late fees and/or
penalties.
   (F)   All recording fees shall be paid at the time of recording of a
document or it shall not be recorded.
   (G)   Bulk images will be paid and mailed, accordingly as listed below:
      (1)   All bulk images must be paid with a prepaid account at the rate of
$.07 per copy.
      (2)   CDs must be included with payment for imaging.
      (3)   A self-addressed, stamped envelope must also be provided.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-9-2017)
§ 33.56  MANNER AND FORM OF BULK FORM COPIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BULK FORM COPY.  An aggregation of:
         (a)   Copies of all recorded documents received by the County Recorder
for recording in a calendar day, week, month, or year;
         (b)   The indices for finding, retrieving, and viewing all recorded
documents received by the County Recorder for recording in a calendar day,
week, month, or year; or
         (c)   Both (a) and (b).
      BULK USER.  An individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, or an unincorporated association that receives bulk form copies under
a contract with the County Recorder.
      COPY.  A reproduction, including any image of a Recorder’s document or
indices created by:
         (a)   Duplicating electronically stored data onto a disk, tape, drum,
or any other medium of electronic data storage; or
         (b)   Reproducing on microfilm.
      INDICES.  All of the indexing information used by the County Recorder for
finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
      RECORDED DOCUMENT.  A writing, paper, document, plat, map, survey, or
anything else received at any time for recording or filing in the public
records maintained by the County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee.
   (B)   Procedure for requesting bulk form copies.
      (1)   A bulk form user must submit a written request to the County
Recorder that identifies the requested bulk form copies with reasonable
particularity. Unless the request is refused under division (E), upon receipt
of a valid written request the County Recorder or designee shall provide the
bulk form copies to the bulk user by the method or methods established by
ordinance. The bulk form copies shall be provided within a reasonable time
after the later of the following events:
         (a)   The Recorder’s archival process is completed and bulk form
copies become available in the County Recorder’s Office; or
         (b)   The bulk form user executes a contract that meets the
requirements of division (D) with:
            1.   The County Recorder; and
            2.   If the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder’s designee.
      (2)   The County Recorder or designee shall work with reasonable
diligence to ensure that bulk form copies are timely produced to the bulk user.
   (C)   Fees charged for bulk form copies.
      (1)   Payment of fees for bulk form copies shall be paid up front prior
to obtaining bulk form copies. The user shall furnish the CD for copying and
postage for return. Fees shall be paid at the following rate, pursuant to I.C.
36-2-7-10-1.
         (a)   $0.10 per page for a copy of a recorded document, including the
instrument book and page, if applicable; and
         (b)   $0.10 per recorded document for a copy of the indices used by
the County Recorder for finding, retrieving, and reviewing a recorded document.
      (2)   The fees charged by the County Recorder are subject to the
following requirements.
         (a)   The County Recorder shall pay the fees into the County Treasury
at the end of each calendar month.
         (b)   The fees prescribed and collected under this section supersede
all other fees for bulk form copies required by law to be charged for services
rendered by the County Recorder to bulk users.
         (c)   All revenue generated by the County Recorder under this section
shall be deposited in the County Recorder’s Records Perpetuation Fund and used
by the Recorder in accordance with I.C. 36-2-7-10(f).
         (d)   The Recorder shall periodically update and verify the cost study
referred to in division (C)(1).
   (D)   Bulk user contract; termination.
      (1)   A bulk user must enter into a contract with the County Recorder,
and if the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy services,
the County Recorder’s designee, in order to receive bulk form copies. The
contract must be in writing and must require that the bulk user agree not to do
any of the following:
         (a)   Except as provided in division (E), provide, transfer, or allow
the transfer of any copy of a recorded document obtained by the bulk user under
this section to a third party;
         (b)   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents; and
         (c)   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents.
      (2)   A contract required under this division may not include any
restrictions on a bulk form user’s use of the bulk form copies other than those
contained in this section.
      (3)   If a bulk user does not comply with the contract, the County
Recorder may terminate the contract, immediately stop providing bulk form
copies to the bulk user, and refuse to provide the bulk form copies required by
the bulk user if all termination provisions and procedures in the contract have
been met by the County Recorder. The County Recorder may refuse subsequent
requests from a bulk user for bulk form copies in the following circumstances:
         (a)   The bulk user is a person that has had a previous bulk form copy
contract terminated by the County Recorder because the Recorder determined that
the bulk user failed to comply with the contract; or
         (b)   The bulk user is a corporation or limited liability company in
which a person has a majority or controlling interest and:
            1.   The person requested bulk form copies under a previous
contract with the County Recorder; and
            2.   The contract was terminated by the County Recorder because the
County Recorder determined that the person failed to comply with the contract.
   (E)   Resale of bulk form copies by a bulk user.
      (1)   A bulk user that is licensed under I.C. 27-1-15.6-6(d), or holds a
certificate of authority under I.C. 27-7-3-6 may provide bulk form copies
related to the specific order for a title search (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2)
when operating as:
         (a)   A title plant for the issuance of title insurance as defined in
I.C. 27-7-3-2; or
         (b)   A title company as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2.
      (2)   A bulk user that meets the requirements of division (E)(1) may
charge its customers a fee for using the bulk form copies obtained by the bulk
user that may not exceed the costs incurred by the bulk user for obtaining the
bulk form copies. A bulk user that meets the requirements of division (E)(1)
may not resell, provide, transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of a
recorded document, whether in bulk form or as individual copies or images, to
any other bulk user or title plant.
      (3)   A bulk user that does not meet the requirements of division (E)(1)
is prohibited from selling, offering for sale, advertising for sale, soliciting
a purchase, or loaning, giving away, allowing subscription service to, or
otherwise transferring, providing, or allowing the transfer of bulk form copies
for commercial purposes to a third party, whether the copies are in bulk form
or individual copies or images.
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 7-27-2017)
§ 33.57  COUNTY TAX SALE FEE.
   The county tax sale fee is increased to $50.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 6-27-2019)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates the restrictions on the use of electronic map
data as set forth in §
33.48(H) shall be guilty of an infraction and may be fined by the county up to
a sum as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time, and each violation
shall be deemed a separate offense. Also, in the event that there is an
improper use of electronic map data as set forth in §
33.48(H) or in violation of state or federal law, the county may prohibit the
person (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) from obtaining any electronic map data and
seek injunctive relief from any misuse of electronic map data by the person who
originally purchased the electronic map data or any other person who has
received a copy of the electronic map data.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 10-17-2006; Council Ord. 06-03, passed 10-17-2006)
CHAPTER 34:  COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Firearm possession in County Courthouse
   
34.02   Liability insurance; limits
   
34.03   American with Disabilities; procedure
   
34.04   Employee Policy and Procedure Manual
   
34.05   Travel Policy
   
34.06   Health emergency - COVID-19
   
34.07   Allowing outgoing sheriffs and certain officers to retain ownership of
their service weapon
   
34.08   Request to restrict access to covered person’s home address
   
34.09   Allowing certain county officials to carry dog repellant spray
   
34.10   Combining of parcels for tax purposes
   
34.11   Electronic meetings policy
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01  FIREARM POSSESSION IN COUNTY COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   Possession of a firearm on an individual’s person is expressly
prohibited in the County Courthouse and the County Government Center.
   (B)   This section does not apply to federal, state or local law enforcement
officers including but not limited to, the state police, County Sheriff’s
Department, North Vernon City Police, probation officers, Federal Bureau of
Investigators, conservation officers and any other federal agent.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 4-28-2003)  Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.02  LIABILITY INSURANCE; LIMITS.
   (A)   At all times the county shall be insured for a potential risk by a
surety company duly licensed and authorized to provide liability insurance
within the state.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall take all necessary steps to procure
such insurance.
   (C)   In no event shall such insurance provide for a combined single limit
of less than $500,000.
(Ord. passed 12-27-1985)
§ 34.03  AMERICAN WITH DISABILITIES; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Sherri Williams is designated as the ADA Coordinator for the county.
   (B)   The notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act is adopted as the
notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act
Notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act
In accordance with the requirements of Title II of the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990 (“ADA”) Jennings County will not discriminate against qualified
individuals with disabilities on the basis of disability in its services, programs
or activities.
Employment: Jennings County does not discriminate on the basis of disability in
its hiring or employment practices and complies with all regulations promulgated
by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under Title I of the ADA.
Effective Communication: Jennings County will generally, upon request, provide
appropriate aids and services leading to effective communication for qualified
persons with disabilities so they can participate equally in Jennings County’s
programs, services and activities, including qualified sign language interpreters,
documents in Braille and other ways of making information and communications
accessible to people who have speech, hearing or vision impairments.
Modifications to Policies and Procedures: Jennings County will make all
responsible modifications to policies and programs to ensure that people with
disabilities have an equal opportunity to enjoy all of its programs, services and
activities. For example, individuals with service animals are welcomed in Jennings
County offices, even when pets are generally prohibited.
Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective communication or a
modification of policies or procedures to participate in a program, service or
activity of Jennings County should contact the office of:
   Sherri Williams
   ADA Coordinator
   Jennings County Government Center
   P.O. Box 383/200 E. Brown St.
   Vernon, IN 47282 (812) 352-3016
   swilliams@jenningscounty-in.gov
   as soon as possible but no later than 48 hours before the scheduled event.
The ADA does not require Jennings County to take any action that would
fundamentally alter the nature of its programs or services or impose an undue
financial or administrative burden.
 
   (C)   The county grievance procedure under the Americans with Disabilities
Act is adopted as the grievance procedure for addressing complaints alleging
discrimination on the basis of disability in the provision of services,
activities, programs or benefits by the government agencies of the county.
 
Complaints that a program, service or activity of Jennings County is not
accessible to persons with disabilities should be directed to:
   Sherri Williams
   ADA Coordinator
   Jennings County Government Center
   P.O. Box 383/200 E. Brown St.
   Vernon, IN 47282 (812) 352-3016
   swilliams@jenningscounty-in.gov
Jennings County will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with a
disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of
providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of policy, such
as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public but are not
accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
 
   (D)   In compliance with federal and state laws as set forth above, the
county resolves to post the required information regarding the ADA Coordinator,
notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, and county grievance
procedure under the Americans with Disabilities Act on its website and at such
other locations as may be determined from time to time.
(Res. 2016-1, passed 1-14-2016; Res. 2017-1, passed 1-12-2017)
§ 34.04  EMPLOYEE POLICY AND PROCEDURES MANUAL.
   The Jennings County Employee Policy and Procedures Manual dated December 17,
2015, as revised October 10, 2019, attached to Ordinance 2019-11 and
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, is adopted by the
County Commissioners and replaces all previous versions of the same.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 34.05  TRAVEL POLICY.
   (A)   Policy. All official travel must be properly authorized, reported and
reimbursed in accordance with this Travel Policy. In all instances, the travel
must be approved in advance by the County Commissioners; and if the travel is
for someone other than a department head, by that department head as well. No
department head shall be authorized travel funds within that department budget
to travel without prior approval of the County Commissioners; and, if the
Commissioners deem it appropriate, from the County Council as well.
   (B)   Definition. All travel expenses must be for authorized travel.
AUTHORIZED TRAVEL means any travel by a county employee or county public
official for the purpose of official county business which is approved by the
County Commissioners, and if travel is by an employee or public official who is
not a department head, by that person's department head as well.
   (C)   Administration.
      (1)   It is recognized that the county payment for authorized travel
includes direct travel expenses, which may include food, beverage and lodging
incurred by county employees and public officials, wherein reimbursement will
be provided.
      (2)   Claimants for reimbursement have the responsibility of becoming
knowledgeable about authorized travel expenditures and the documentation
requirements. Care must be taken to avoid unnecessary or excessive expenditures
, and those not direct and reasonably related to the conduct of county
business.
      (3)   It should be the responsibility of the County Auditor, to adopt,
publish, and enforce rules and procedures consistent with this Policy for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions thereof; and to provide forms
accompanied by instructions for their implementation.
   (D)   Submission of claims.
      (1)   Reimbursement. Reimbursement shall be made for actual expenses
incurred for convention, seminar, or other registration fees; reasonable
expenses incurred at meetings related to official county business;
transportation to destination and return or mileage as set forth herein; single
occupancy lodging where overnight lodging is required; and incidentals, all as
set forth below. The county reserves the right to permit and control county
credit card usage. See §
33.18  and check for updates with the County Auditor.
      (2)   Documentation. No claim for reimbursement shall be paid unless it
is accompanied by a vendor's receipt. Should a receipt be lost or not
obtainable, an employee certification, signed by his/her department head or by
a Commissioner if the employee is a department head, may serve as a substitute
for a receipt at the sole discretion of the Commissioners. Such receipt or
certification should show the date, a description of the purchase, vendor
identification, amount paid, and an explanation for the lack of a receipt
should that be the case. Restaurant meal stubs will be accepted as receipt
where a more detailed vendor receipt cannot be reasonably obtained. However,
the stub must have the amount completed and initialed by restaurant staff,
though the tip can be added by the employee if not included.
      (3)   Information.  Claims for reimbursement shall contain the following:
         (a)   The name of the person who consumed the goods or used the
service for which reimbursement is requested;
         (b)   A description of the event, occasion or circumstance related to
the claim and the public policy or public purpose served;
         (c)   The required receipts  or certifications where they are
allowed).
      (4)   Meals. Reimbursement shall be made for expenses incurred for meals
as follows:
         (a)   Meals costs must be incurred directly by the claimant, and do
not cover meals served without cost incurred by the claimant at authorized
meetings, conventions, or conferences. Direct billing to the county by a food
provider is prohibited unless included in prepaid costs approved by the
Commissioners.
         (b)   All county employees and public officials claiming reimbursement
for meals consumed while on county business shall be entitled to reimbursement
not to exceed $45 per day, including tax and tip, based on vendor receipts. If
the employee's attendance does not necessitate overnight travel, or travel more
than 50 miles from Vernon, meals shall be reimbursed at an amount not to exceed
$20 per meal, including tax and tip, and no reimbursement shall be made for a
morning meal or an evening meal unless it is an afternoon and evening meeting.
         (c)   The Commissioners may approve exceptions to the authorized meal
allowance schedule when the Commissioners determine that either the region of
the country is recognized as a high cost area, or that the event's location
requires a greater cost. To claim a meal schedule cost exception, the employee
or public official must prepare a written request for such exception treatment,
have it approved by his or her department head, if applicable, and submit it to
the Commissioners for a final determination.
         (d)   If the costs of meals for persons other than the claimant are
included, those persons must be entitled to meal reimbursement by their own
right and they shall be listed by name and title in claim documentation, or
that portion of the claim will be disallowed.
         (e)   Specifically excluded from reimbursement for meals are any
beverages containing alcohol, meal expenses incurred where the meals are
covered by the meeting, conference or seminar, meals between home and the
official workplace, and tobacco products. Payments for table service at a food
establishment, commonly referred to as a tip, in excess of 15% on the submitted
receipt, shall be disallowed.
      (5)   Travel. Reimbursement for reasonable cost of business travel must
be authorized by the Commissioners in advance. The use of a county vehicle
rather than a personal car is encouraged, where one is readily available and
approved by the department head and the Commissioners. General guidelines are
as follows:
         (a)   County vehicle. Out of area cost of vehicle operation are
authorized for fuel, oil, tires and necessary repairs.
         (b)   Personal vehicle. Expenses shall be reimbursed for travel within
a 300-mile radius of the county at the then current mileage rate allowed by the
Commissioners for such expense. The current established rate is $0.38 per mile.
Trips beyond this distance will be reimbursed at the lower of the:
            1.   Established rate per mile; or
            2.   The lowest available airfare obtainable by the County Auditor
or department head, plus mileage reimbursement at the then current county rate,
based upon the estimated distance between the airport and the destination.
         (c)   County employees who receive a motor vehicle allowance in lieu
of county provided transportation shall not be entitled to further
reimbursement for surface transportation costs within a 50- mile radius of the
county. Incidental travel costs such as parking, ferry or bridge tolls, are
reimbursable as they would be if a county vehicle was provided.
      (6)   Rental vehicle. The cost of vehicle rental when on out-of-town
business is considered an exception to this Policy and must be approved in
advance by the Commissioners. Vehicle rental authorization must be separately
set out in any request for approval of travel expenses. Approval of vehicle
rental as an item on a Travel Advance Request will not be considered sufficient
authorization without a separate statement presenting the reason such an
expenditure is required.
      (7)   Air travel. Arrangement for air travel on county-related business
shall be made by the department whose employee is involved in the travel, or as
may otherwise be designated by the County Auditor, but always subject to prior
approval by the Commissioners, and must follow the following policy:
         (a)   Whenever feasible, the need for air travel arrangements should
be provided by way of the normal purchase order process at least five weeks in
advance of the departure date.
         (b)   The authorized procurer will arrange for air travel based on the
lowest available airfare for a regularly scheduled flight which reasonable
accommodates the time of travel requested, and the destination as specified by
the requested department. A travel agency may be used, but any fee for that
travel agency, including Internet travel services, must be approved in advance.
         (c)   The authorized procurer will purchase the tickets at the time
the rate is quoted and the employee will be advised of the arrangements for
acquiring the tickets.
         (d)   If personal travel is combined with business travel, the
traveling employee shall be responsible for paying the increase in airfare
necessary to accommodate the personal part of the flight. The county shall only
pay the lowest available airfare for the round trip between Jennings County and
the business-related destination. Such payment for personal travel shall
accompany the county's payment to the vendor for the tickets.
         (e)   If changes in travel plans occur that are the result of county
business requirements (that is, delays and departures, cancellations, extended
stays or revised itinerary), any associated costs shall be paid by the county.
However, any increase in the cost of travel due to changes for personal
convenience, will be borne by the employee.
         (f)   (a)   Employees who obtain airline tickets on their own will be
reimbursed based on the lower of:
               1.   Actual out-of-pocket costs paid by for the airline tickets
or alternate means of transportation (substantiated by receipt); or
               2.   The lowest airfare available for their time of travel,
unless an exception is granted in writing by the Commissioners.
            (b)   When purchased by the employee, he or she must pay the costs
of the travel and seek reimbursement along with all other travel expenses.
Direct billing of airfare to the county is allowed only if arranged for or
approved by the Commissioners in advance.
         (g)   Only coach air travel is authorized, unless this requirement is
specifically waived in advance by the Commissioners.
      (8)   Other miscellaneous travel expenses.
         (a)   Miscellaneous travel costs such as bus, taxi, bridge tolls, or
other tolls, and parking are authorized by the listing of the same on the
reimbursement form. Payment for personal services such as porter, bellman, maid
service, and the like are not considered reimbursable miscellaneous travel
costs.
         (b)   A vendor's receipt will be required for all such miscellaneous
travel costs.
   (9)   Mileage and/or overnight travel.
      (a)   Employees driving personal vehicles on county business outside the
county shall be entitled to reimbursement for mileage at the established rate
per mile.
      (b)   Overnight accommodations (hotel/motel) for a one-day meeting,
conference, or seminar (collectively called "such programs") shall not be
approved unless the distance exceeds 120 miles one way from the county to the
location of such program.
      (c)   Overnight accommodations for such programs lasting more that one
day shall be considered as follows:
         1.   If the one-way distance is 50 miles or less, no overnight
accommodations shall be approved.
         2.   If the one-way distance exceeds 50 miles but does not exceed 120
miles, there shall be no overnight accommodations either the night before such
program begins or the night such program ends.
         3.   If the one-way distance exceeds 120 miles, there may be overnight
accommodations either the night before such program begins or the night such
program ends (but not both), and all nights in between.
         (d)   The county shall have the sole discretion to very from these
rules for extenuating circumstances, but any claim of extenuating circumstances
must be brought before the Commissioners sufficiently in advance and with
sufficient details to enable the Commissioners to make such a decision in
advance of the travel, or it will be automatically denied.
         (e)   Reasonable overnight (hotel/motel) accommodations for county
employees and public officials are acceptable and will be reimbursed at a
maximum of the best available single room rate. Exceptions may be authorized by
the Commissioners should a single room rate not be available, but evidence of
this must be received from the hotel/motel. A vendor's receipt for this
category is required for all claims. Direct billing of hotel/motel charges is
not allowed unless approved in advance by the Commissioners.
      (10)   Expenses for which reimbursement is not available. In addition to
those items specifically excluded for reimbursement as identified in divisions
(4)(d) and (8)(b), there shall be no reimbursement for the following: beverages
with any alcoholic content; expenses of a spouse or other persons not
authorized to receive reimbursement under this Policy; laundry; entertainment;
personal telephone calls; early departure or late return for personal reasons;
TV/movie rental; personal sundries; clothing; entertainment and travel to
places of entertainment; room service; valet service; personal "trip
insurance"; damage costs caused by the county employee or public official
actions; fines, penalties and/or forfeiture expenses incurred; theft; loss or
damage to personal property; limousine services; expenses paid by others;
personal postage or reading materials; health care expenses, except as covered
by the county health plan; and child care expenses unless specifically
authorized in advance.
      (11)   Time limit for submission. Claims for reimbursement of travel
expenses must be submitted to the County Auditor in the manner set forth above,
upon completion of the trip. Such claim for reimbursement becomes delinquent if
not submitted within 30 days, and may result in denial of the claim. If any
travel advance exceeds the reimbursable expenses, the county employee or public
official must submit a payment for the excess amount immediately upon
completion of the trip. The county has the right to require, in addition to the
documentation and information requirements set forth above, to require that a
county employee or public official sign a report certifying that the amounts
claimed are:
         (1)   True statement of the expenses incurred on official county
business; and
         (2)   Not being reimbursed by another person or organization.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 9-26-2019)
§ 34.06  HEALTH EMERGENCY - COVID-19.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners do hereby:
      (1)   Declare that a public health emergency exists in the county due to
Covid-19;
      (2)   Order that Jennings County implement an advisory travel
recommendation.
   (B)   Until further notice, only critical essential businesses shall remain
open. All  other, non-essential, businesses shall remain closed, including all
county government offices not specifically listed below as "essential." But
also see division (E) below.
   (C)   Critical essential businesses to remain open, include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Essential county government offices, including the following:
         (a)   Jennings County Sheriffs Department;
         (b)   Jennings County 911;
         (c)   Jennings County EMS;
         (d)   Jennings County Highway Department;
         (e)   Jennings County Courts allowing only for operations as ordered
by the Indiana Supreme Court in its March 19, 2020 and April 24, 2020 Orders on
Jennings County AR 17 Petition, attached to Ordinance 2020-06 and incorporated
herein by reference;
         (f)   All other county offices will be reopened for employees to
return to work operating at normal work hours. The county offices will be open
to the public by APPOINTMENT ONLY.
      (2)   Grocery stores;
      (3)   Funeral homes;
      (4)   All health care service providers, including doctor offices,
hospitals, pharmacies and  therapy establishments;
      (5)   Banks, lending institutions and all other related businesses;
      (6)   Gas stations and auto repair businesses;
      (7)   Convenience stores;
      (8)   "Dollar" stores;
      (9)   Day care facilities;
      (10)   Restaurants and bars-carry-out, delivery and drive-up only;
      (11)   Utility and trash services;
      (12)   Airport;
      (13)   Postal services/Fed Ex and UPS;
      (14)   Veterinarian clinics;
      (15)   Home improvement/hardware;
      (16)   Hotels/motels;
      (17)   Laundromats;
      (18)   Public and private transportation;
      (19)   Agricultural operations; pet stores;
      (20)   Legal services;
      (21)   Social service agencies.
   (D)   There should be no public gatherings of more than ten people and all
county  residents are to attempt at all possible times to maintain a social
distance of six feet or more from others. The ten-person restriction does not
apply to work places so long as the social distancing guidelines are followed
and internal safeguards are put into place with regard to cleaning, i.e.
disinfecting and sanitizing, and social distancing.
   (E)   Jennings County shall "reopen" in accordance with the same procedures
and timelines as ordered by Governor Eric Holcomb in his Executive Order 20-26
for the State of Indiana.
   (F)   This is an ongoing and evolving public health crisis. Refusal to
comply may result in suspension of permits as well as fines by Order of the
County Health Department and the County Health Officer under I.C. 16-20-1-19
and 16-20-1-21.
   (G)   The Board of Commissioners acknowledge the hardship and sacrifice that
is being imposed on the businesses and citizens of the county by these
closures. These restrictions will be revisited as the Covid-19 circumstances
change, and are subject to revision as deemed appropriate for the health and
well-being of county citizens.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 3-22-2020; Ord. 2020-03, passed 4-2-20200; Ord. 2020-04,
passed 4-16-2020; Ord. 2020-05, passed 5-1-2020; Ord. 2020-06, passed 5-8-2020)
§ 34.07  ALLOWING OUTGOING SHERIFFS AND CERTAIN OFFICERS TO RETAIN OWNERSHIP OF
THEIR SERVICE WEAPON.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby permits the outgoing Sheriff and
officers who have 20 years of service to Jennings County Sheriffs Department to
retain ownership of their service weapon.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby declares that SERVICE WEAPON is
defined as the weapon the Sheriff carries daily while in office and not an
expensive weapon the Sheriff purchases in contemplation of leaving office.
(Ord. 2020-13, passed 9-24-2020)
§ 34.08  REQUEST TO RESTRICT ACCESS TO COVERED PERSON’S HOME ADDRESS.
   (A)   A covered person who wants to restrict access to the covered person's
home address by means of a public property data base Internet web site must
submit a written request to the unit that operates the public property data
base Internet web site.
   (B)   A unit that operates a public property data base Internet web site,
directly or through a third party, shall establish a process to prevent a
member of the general public from gaining access to the home address of a
covered person by means of the public property data base Internet web site.
   (C)   In establishing a process under division (B), a unit shall do all of
the following:
      (1)   Determine which person or department of the unit will receive and
process the request;
      (2)   Provide a method under which a covered person is notified of the
procedure to be used to restrict or allow disclosure of the home address of the
covered person under this section.
   (D)   A unit may charge a covered person a reasonable fee to make a written
request under this section.
   (E)   A covered person requesting restricted access to their home address
due to their status as a covered person as defined by the Board of
Commissioners must be able to provide documentation of being a covered person
and complete the Restricted Access to Home Address Form and have both on file
with the County Auditor prior to access to their home address being restricted.
No fee will be charged to covered persons for requesting restricted address to
their home address. Once the documentation of covered person status and
Restricted Address to Home Address Form are adequately completed and filed with
the County Auditor, the access to the covered person's home address shall be
restricted.
(Ord. 2020-14, passed 9-24-2020)
§ 34.09  ALLOWING CERTAIN COUNTY OFFICIALS TO CARRY DOG REPELLANT SPRAY.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby permits certain county employees as
defined by the Board to purchase and carry with them for their own safety dog
repellent spray.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby declares that DOG REPELLANT is
defined as a spray that will deter a dog from attacking or causing harm to the
county employee while at the same time does not cause long-term harm to the
dog.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners requires that certain county employees
attempt to make contact with the owner of the dog to ensure the dog is
contained prior to visiting the owner's property and only use the dog repellent
spray if the dog is displaying aggressive behavior that could threaten the
safety of the county employee.
(Ord. 2020-16, passed 9-24-2020)
§ 34.10  COMBINING OF PARCELS FOR TAX PURPOSES.
   (A)   The assessing official of the county may consolidate contiguous
parcels into a single parcel at the request of the owner of the real estate
pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-5-16.
   (B)   The owner of the real estate must make the request to consolidate
pursuant to the forms and acknowledgments attached to Ordinance 2020-19, and
such requests will only be considered after an acknowledgment of receipt by the
County Assessor and Auditor.
   (C)   Parcel splits or combinations are made at the request of the property
owner or owner's representative, and are processed by the assessing official of
the county, for tax billing and assessment purposes only. It is important to
note that a parcel split or combination processed by the County Assessor is
solely for the owner's taxpaying convenience and does not:
      (1)   Affect ownership, recorded deed, or legal description;
      (2)   Imply the legality of the requested land reconfiguration;
      (3)   Imply the legality for parcels to be conveyed via deed;
      (4)   Authorize or imply suitability for development of the affected
parcels;
      (5)   Nullify or alleviate any existing liens or encumbrances on the
property;
      (6)   Alter zoning or parcel conformity requirements;
      (7)   Create any entitlements as to current or future property use.
   (D)   The assessing official of the county does not issue determinations
regarding the permissibility of parcel splits or combinations in any
jurisdiction and will not advise owners on such matters. Property owners are
strongly encouraged to obtain approval from the appropriate zoning, planning,
or community development agencies. Some jurisdictions may require prior
approval before the split or combination is sought.
   (E)   If the consolidated parcels are subsequently divided, a survey done by
a professional surveyor with appropriate legal descriptions and drawings shall
be required to be done and recorded prior to division of the parcel. The owner
of the real estate shall be solely responsible for all fees and costs
associated with obtaining and recoding the survey.
(Ord. 2020-19, passed 11-12-2020)
§ 34.11  ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of the Indiana Open Door Law (I.C. 5-14-1.5)
apply throughout this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, the term MEMBER means a member of the
County Council or the County Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   This section shall be known as the "Electronic Meetings Policy" and
applies to:
         (a)   The County Council and any committee appointed directly by the
Council or its presiding officer; and
         (b)   The Board of Commissioners and any committee appointed directly
by the Board or its presiding officer.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) of this section, any member may
participate in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members to simultaneously communicate
with each other; and
         (b)   Allows the public to simultaneously attend and observe the
meeting. However, this division does not apply to a meeting that is an
executive session.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member's electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or mother medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   As used in this division, the term SET OF MEETINGS means two
consecutive meetings. A member may attend two consecutive meetings by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member's absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or mother medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member participates
by electronic means of communication must identify:
      (1)   Each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent.
      (2)   The electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   A member participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting, if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member may participate by means of electronic communication in a
meeting at which the members may take final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise, or renew a tax.
   (F)   (1)   If an emergency is declared by (a) the governor under I.C. 10-
14-3-12 or (b) the County Commissioners under I.C. 10-14-3-29, the members are
not required to be physically present for a meeting until the emergency is
terminated.
      (2)   Members may participate in a meeting by any means of communication
provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person;
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting
unless the meeting is an executive session;
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting comply with division (D)
of this section.
(Res. 2021-06, passed 6-8-2021; Res. 2021-09, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §
34.01 of this chapter shall result in a fine as set by the Board and/or Council
from time to time, and forfeiture of the firearm.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 4-28-2003)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   ENHANCED 911 SERVICE
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  ENHANCED 911 SERVICE
Section
911 Centralized Communications Center
   
50.01   Creation of Board
   
50.02   Authority of Board
   
50.03   Meetings
   
50.04   Officers
   
50.05   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   Enhanced emergency telephone system; fee, see §
33.54
911 CENTRALIZED COMMUNICATIONS CENTER
§ 50.01  CREATION OF BOARD.
   There is hereby created the County Emergency Telephone System Advisory Board
comprised of the following members:
   (A)   Sheriff of the county, or his or her designee, who is employed within
the Sheriff’s office;
   (B)   Chief of Police of the City of North Vernon, Indiana, or his or her
designee who is employed within the City of North Vernon Police Department;
   (C)   Director of County Rescue 20 or his or her designee who is employed
with the Rescue 20 operation;
   (D)   President of the County Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., or his or her
designee who is an officer of that corporation;
   (E)   A designee of the County Council who is a resident of the county;
   (F)   A designee of the City Council of North Vernon, Indiana, who is a
resident of the City of North Vernon, Indiana; and
   (G)   A designee of the County Commissioners who is a resident of the
county.
(Council Ord. passed 4-18-1994)
§ 50.02  AUTHORITY OF BOARD.
   The County Emergency Telephone System Advisory Board shall have the
following authority, subject to budgeting constraints imposed by the County
Council and subject to ordinances of the County Council that may limit such
authority:
   (A)   Finance, purchase, acquire, lease, erect, install, construct, equip,
upgrade, operate and maintain facilities of the emergency telephone system;
   (B)   Condemn, appropriate, lease, rent, purchase and hold any real or
personal property needed or considered useful in connection with facilities for
the emergency telephone system;
   (C)   Acquire real or personal property by gift, devise or bequest and hold,
use or dispose of that property for purposes of the emergency telephone system;
   (D)   Design, order, contract for, construct and equip any facilities of the
emergency telephone system;
   (E)   Employ architects, engineers, attorneys, auditors, clerks,
construction managers and other employees necessary for the financing,
erection, equipping and management of facilities of the emergency telephone
system; and
   (F)   Make and enter into all contracts and agreements necessary or
incidental to accomplishing the purposes of the emergency telephone system.
(Council Ord. passed 4-18-1994)
§ 50.03  MEETINGS.
   The County Emergency Telephone System Advisory Board shall meet at least
quarterly and file a written report of its actions to the County Council on a
yearly basis.
(Council Ord. passed 4-18-1994)
§ 50.04  OFFICERS.
   The County Emergency Telephone System Advisory Board shall at the first
meeting in each calendar year elect a president and secretary.
(Council Ord. passed 4-18-1994)
§ 50.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective on April 18, 1994.
(Council Ord. passed 4-18-1994)
CHAPTER 51:  SOLID WASTE
Section
Landfills
   
51.01   Contracting for delivery of refuse prohibited
   
51.02   Delivery, acceptance of foreign refuse unlawful
Collection System
   
51.15   Fee established
   
51.16   Definition
   
51.17   Operation, regulations and containers
   
51.18   Tags; additional fees
   
51.19   Abandoning waste
 
   
51.99   Penalty
LANDFILLS
§ 51.01  CONTRACTING FOR DELIVERY OF REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   The contracting for delivery of one county’s refuse for delivery in the
county shall be hereafter unlawful.
(Ord. 5, passed 1-17-1983)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02  DELIVERY, ACCEPTANCE OF FOREIGN REFUSE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   The delivery of such foreign refuse into the county shall be hereafter
unlawful.
   (B)   The acceptance of such foreign refuse into the county shall be
hereafter unlawful.
(Ord. 5, passed 1-17-1983)  Penalty, see §
51.99
COLLECTION SYSTEM
§ 51.15  FEE ESTABLISHED.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county, in order to regulate the public
disposal of household rubbish, the gathering of such rubbish and to provide
funding for the collection, removal and disposal thereof, does hereby establish
and declare that fees shall be paid by all persons placing residential solid
waste in the county solid waste collection system, whether such collection be
by deposit by county solid waste containers or by any other type of delivery to
or collection by any agency of the county.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 3-26-2004)
§ 51.16  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE or TRASH. Putrescible and nonputrescible solid and
semi-solid or waste except for:
      (1)   Human and animal body waste;
      (2)   Liquids;
      (3)   Liquid or water carried wastes which are normally disposed of in
sanitary sewer systems;
      (4)   Hazardous wastes;
      (5)   Building materials; and
      (6)   Appliances, furniture, household fixtures and/or any other similar
bulky items.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 3-26-2004)
§ 51.17  OPERATION, REGULATIONS AND CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The county solid waste collection system shall be operated solely for
the benefit of, and shall be used solely by residents of the county and shall
exclude persons or firms collecting rubbish for a fee, schools, retail,
wholesale, manufacturing or other business establishments.
   (B)   Residential solid waste shall enter the county solid waste collection
system only in those methods from time to time established by the Board of
Commissioners. All such residential solid waste entering said system shall be
placed in any authorized container.
   (C)   The authorized container shall be no larger than a 33-gallon bag with
an attached preprinted tag issued by the county, signifying that the proper fee
as then determined by the Board of Commissioners, has been paid to the county
for that bag.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 3-26-2004)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18  TAGS; ADDITIONAL FEES.
   (A)   The fee to be paid to the county for each bag described in §
51.17(C) shall be a fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time
for each tag purchased.
      (1)   Additional fees for other than household trash are as follows:
         (a)   Passenger tires: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council from
time to time, per tire, limit of five tires;
         (b)   Passenger tires on rims: a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time, per tire, limit of five tires;
         (c)   Truck tires: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time
to time, per tire, limit of two tires;
         (d)   Tractor tires: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council from
time to time, per tire, limit of one tire;
         (e)   Refrigerated appliances: a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time, each, limit of two items; and
         (f)   Bulky items: a fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time
to time, per item.
      (2)   Recycle items for no fees as follows:
         (a)   Scrap metal;
         (b)   Magazines;
         (c)   Glass bottles;
         (d)   Newspaper;
         (e)   Car batteries;
         (f)   Cans;
         (g)   Mixed paper;
         (h)   Plastic bottles;
         (i)   Cardboard; and
         (j)   Household batteries.
   (B)   The authorized tags shall be sold in various locations in the county
as advertised by the County Board of Commissioners. All funds collected by the
county for the sale of said bags shall be deposited with the County Treasurer
and shall be credited to the County Solid Waste Collection System Fund (which
fund is hereby established) for use in the operation of that system, including
payment of expenses and fees for disposition of county residential solid waste
collection within said system.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 3-26-2004)
§ 51.19  ABANDONING WASTE.
    No solid waste, including residential waste and including those items
excluded from the definition of residential solid waste set forth in §
51.16, shall be abandoned in the county, except to a person or firm holding a
permit to collect rubbish for a fee, or at a lawful landfill or if applicable,
in compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 3-26-2004)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §§
51.01 or
51.02 shall be punishable by fine as set by the Board and/or Council from time
to time, for each separate act.
      (2)   A violation of §
51.01 or §
51.02 may be considered one which a legal remedy cannot recompense and
therefore a violation hereof is subject to all equitable relief available,
including, but not limited to, injunctive relief.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation found violating any of the provisions
of §§
51.15 through
51.19 shall be guilty of a violation, and upon being found guilty the violator
shall be punished for the first offense by a fine as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time; for the second offense by a fine as set by the Board
and/or Council from time to time; and for a third and each subsequence offense
by a fine as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time.
(Ord. 5, passed 1-17-1983; Ord. 04-06, passed 3-26-2004)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Installing sewage disposal systems
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
52.15   Definitions
   
52.16   Types of systems; connections
   
52.17   Permits and inspections
   
52.18   Powers for inspection
   
52.19   Notices
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Working in public roadways; permit, see §
151.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  INSTALLING SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No person shall construct, install, replace or repair any part of any
on-site sewage disposal system in the county until the person is certified by
the County Health Department as a certified installer for the type of system to
be installed.
   (B)   In order to become certified, an individual must:
      (1)   File an application for certification accompanied by an annual fee;
      (2)   Present a certificate of liability insurance issued by a company
registered in the state showing coverage for the entire term of the
certificate. The liability policy shall be sufficient to indemnify persons for
whom faulty work may be performed with a minimum limit of $100,000 per
occurrence; and
      (3)   Demonstrate knowledge of the applicable state and county laws,
rules and regulations pertaining to sewage disposal systems, by becoming
certified by passing a proficiency examination conducted by the County Health
Department or by presenting a work history or proof of training satisfactory to
the County Board of Health.
   (C)   Certificates issued hereunder shall be valid for a term of one year
beginning January 1, and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall be
renewed annually. The certification shall bear the name and address of the
certified installer and the expiration date and shall not be transferable. Any
certification that is not renewed within one year of the expiration date shall
be considered void and the installer must re-apply for certification.
   (D)   The installer shall maintain in his or her possession a copy of the
certification at all times when installing on-site soil absorption systems.
   (E)   A certified installer shall be on the site at all times during
construction, and shall be deemed responsible for the installation. A certified
installer may supervise other construction workers as necessary to assist in
the installation.
   (F)   A certification fee, as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time, shall be paid to the County Board of Health.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-28-2001)  Penalty, see §
52.99
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 52.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILD-UP AREAS.  Any property situated outside the corporate limits of any
city or town, upon which is located a building or buildings used for
residential or business purposes; provided, however,  that it shall not include
any tract of land, situated outside the corporate limits of any city or town,
consisting of ten acres or more and upon which tracts of land is located only
one building, which building is used for residential purposes. Provided,
further, that it shall not include any tract of land situated outside the
corporate limits of any city or town which tract of land is used for farming or
agriculture purposes.
   PERSON.  An individual, firm or corporation.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  Any sewage disposal system not
constructed,  installed, maintained, operated and owned by a municipality or a
taxing district established for that purpose.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  Any sewer constructed, installed, maintained, operated and
owned by a municipality or a taxing district established for that purpose. A
county sewer installed for the purpose or carrying surface water run-off and
sub-soil drainage shall not be considered a PUBLIC SEWER under this definition.
   SEWAGE.  Any combination of excrement and waste water from water closets,
laundries, sinks, bathing facilities or any other source of objectionable waste
water.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
receiving, treating and disposing of sewage.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1986)
§ 52.16  TYPES OF SYSTEMS; CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, all persons who own or
lease property in built-up areas, shall comply with the following provisions of
this subchapter for private sewage disposal systems.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any purpose to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
county, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said county, any human
excrement or sewage.
   (C)   At any business building situated within the county, where there is
installed a sewage disposal system which is not connected to a public sewer
system, and no public sewer system is available, there shall be established,
installed, constructed and maintained, a private sewage disposal system. Said
system shall either be a septic tank system, which shall comply with the
standards of the State Board of Health, as contained in regulation Rule 410
I.A.C. 6-8 of the State Board of Health, or in such other manner as approved by
the State Board of Health, or be an aeration disposal system in which the
effluent from any individual home treatment facility should be handled on the
property and not discharged to storm sewers, lakes, water courses or roadside
ditches. The aeration-type systems effluent will be disposed of through the use
of an absorption field with no outlet. The absorption field will be the same as
a conventional septic system. Regulation Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8 is hereby
incorporated by reference as part of this section and two copies are filed in
the offices of the County Auditor and County Health Officer for public
inspection.
   (D)   Any privy situated within the county shall be of the sanitary type and
shall be constructed and maintained in a clean condition, and in such a way
that insects and rodents cannot enter the vault. Any privy shall be located
properly so as to protect water supplies from contamination.
   (E)   All private residential sewage disposal systems, with the exception of
privies, shall be of the septic tank variety, and comply with all requirements
of the State Board of Health, as per regulation rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8, or in such
other manner as approved by the State Board of Health. State Board of Health
regulation rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8, is hereby incorporated by reference as part of
this section and two copies are filed in the offices of the County Auditor and
County Health Officer for public inspection.
   (F)   If an aeration disposal system is installed, it shall be inspected and
serviced annually to ensure proper functioning. Responsibility for such
inspection, by qualified personnel shall be on the land owner and user of said
system. Proof of annual inspection shall be provided to the County Health
Department upon request.
   (G)   The installation of any other private residential sewage disposal
system may be approved by the County Board of Health, after the Board of
Commissioners has filed the requirements, plans and specifications thereof with
the offices of the County Auditor and the County Health Office. Said
requirements, plans and specifications must bear the written approval of the
State Board of Health.
   (H)   Should any defect exist or occur in any private sewage disposal system
or privy which would cause said sewage disposal system or privy to fail to meet
the requirements of divisions (C), (D) and (E) above and thereby cause an
unsanitary health condition to exist, the defect shall be corrected immediately
by the owner or agent of the owner, occupant or agent of the occupant. Failure
to do so shall be a violation of this subchapter and the state health statutes
upon which it is based, and the violation shall be subject to enforcement
proceedings.
   (I)   (1)   Whenever a publicly owned and properly authorized sewage system
becomes available within 300 feet of a dwelling or other building then served
by a private or residential sewage disposal system, the owner of such dwelling
or building shall directly connect the same to such publicly owned sanitary
sewage disposal system and abandon the private or residential sewage disposal
system in accordance with existing ordinances and requirements, unless:
         (a)   Within 30 days of the date the owner of the property received an
order to connect to the publicly owned sanitary sewage system from the County
Board of Health, the owner provides written documentation to the publicly owned
sanitary sewage system and the County Board of Health that the owner’s private
or residential sewage disposal system is less than three years of age. The
owner must have received a permit for the installation of the private or
residential sewage disposal system. The three years is calculated from the date
of issuance of the permit. After the expiration of three years, the owner is
subject to the provisions of this subchapter and any amendments thereto;
         (b)   Within 30 days of the date the owner of the property received an
order to connect to the publicly owned sanitary sewage system from the County
Board of Health, the owner files a written request for an inspection with the
County Board of Health, together with payment of the inspection fee, as set by
the Board and/or Council from time to time; and
         (c)   After inspection by the County Board of Health, or its designee,
the County Board of Health determines:
            1.   The private or residential sewage disposal system meets the
requirements of all applicable state and local statutes, ordinances and
regulations; or
            2.   The private or residential sewage disposal system does not
meet the requirements of all state and local statutes, ordinances and
regulations, but the private or residential sewage disposal system may by
repair or modification be made to meet all state and local statutes, ordinances
and regulations.
      (2)   (a)   If the County Board of Health makes the determination
described in division (I)(1)(c)2. above, the owner of the property must:
            1.   Repair or modify the private or residential sewage disposal
system to meet all state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations; or
            2.   Abandon the non-conforming private or residential sewage
disposal system in accordance with existing ordinances and requirements.
         (b)   In no event shall the homeowner or property owner be required to
directly connect their dwelling or building to the publicly owned sanitary
sewage disposal system in the event that cost of connection of such system
exceeds the cost to repair or replace a private or residential sewage disposal
system by more than 125% of the cost estimated by the County Board of Health
for installing or repairing a private or residential sewage disposal system.
Cost of connection to the publicly owned sanitary sewage disposal system shall
include, but not be limited to, costs associated with trenching, materials,
labor, pumps and electrical modifications to the existing dwelling or building.
      (3)   Subsequent inspections of sanitary sewage systems may be conducted
as permitted under state law and this chapter. Should the system fail
subsequent inspections, the homeowner has the same rights as set forth in
division (I)(2) above.
      (4)   The County Board of Health shall have authority to set reasonable
fees for inspections.
   (J)   Whenever a new business building, residential building or subdivision
is developed in an area where a public sewer is available, a connection shall
be made to such sewer.
   (K)   After receiving an order in writing from the County Board of Health or
the duly appointed Health Officer, the owner, agent of the owner, the occupant
or agent of the occupant of the property shall comply with the provisions of
this subchapter as set forth in said order and within the time included
therein. Said order shall be served on the owner or the agent of the owner, or
on the occupant or agent of the occupant.
   (L)   A temporary sewage holding tank is an alternative method of sewage
disposal subject to the written approval of the commissioner required in
division (L)(3) below.
      (1)   A temporary sewage holding tank shall not be used as a primary
means of residential sewage disposal except where necessary to prevent
continued discharge of wastewater from a failed existing system.
      (2)   A temporary sewage holding tank may be used as follows:
         (a)   As a temporary storage facility for no more than six months
where occupancy of the home must continue while the system is being renovated;
         (b)   Where such facility is owned and operated temporarily by a
conservancy district, sewer district, private utility or municipality as a part
of its sewage disposal plan or for no more than one year while connection to
sanitary sewer is being secured; and
         (c)   Proof of pumping the temporary sewage holding tank must be filed
at the County Health Department in form of a paid receipt.
      (3)   If any conditions preclude the installation of a residential sewage
disposal system as described in this rule, the Board of Health may not approve
the use of any other alternative residential sewage disposal system without the
express written approval of the commissioner.
      (4)   There will be a charge, as set by the Board and/or Council from
time to time, for each and every violation issued by the County Health
Department under Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1-31(e) through (f) temporary sewage
holding tank. This excludes any commercial or industrial use.
      (5)   Fees shall be as follows:
         (a)   New installation septic permit: a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time;
         (b)   Septic system repair permit: a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time;
         (c)   Pre-existing septic inspection: a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time; and
         (d)   Violation of temporary sewage holding tank: a fee as set by the
Board and/or Council from time to time.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1986; Ord. 99-6, passed 6-21-1999; Ord. passed 2-28-2005) 
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17  PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of any building or private
residence where a private sewage disposal system or privy is to be installed or
where any alteration, repair of addition of any existing private sewage
disposal system is planned, the owner or agent of the owner shall first obtain
a written permit signed by the County Health Officer. The application for such
permit shall be made on a form provided by the county which application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications and other information as is deemed
necessary by the County Health Officer. A permit and inspection fee as set by
the Board and/or Council from time to time shall be paid to the County
Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system or privy shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
County Health Officer. He or she or his or her agent, shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction; and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the County Health Officer when the work is ready
for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The
request for inspection shall be made at least two working days before
anticipated completion of the project.
   (C)   The application for a permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at
or near the building where the sewage disposal system is under construction.
The notice should be plainly visible from the public thoroughfare serving this
building.
   (D)   The Health Officer or his or her duly appointed agent shall have
authority to inspect any and all private sewage disposal systems or privies
heretofore installed and existing at the passage of this subchapter. If at such
inspection it would appear to the Health Officer that any such private sewage
disposal system or privy is unsanitary, he or she shall notify the owner of the
real estate upon which said system or privy is located, or the agent of such
owner of said finding and shall order said owner or agent to make whatsoever
change as may be necessary to correct such unsanitary condition.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1986)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18  POWERS FOR INSPECTION.
   The County Health Officer or his or her agent bearing proper credentials and
identifications shall be permitted to enter upon all properties at the proper
time for purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1986)
§ 52.19  NOTICES.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter may be
served by the County Board of Health or its duly appointed health officer, with
a written order stating the nature of the violation and providing a time limit
for satisfactory correction thereof.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1986)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
52.15 through
52.19 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. On conviction, the violator shall be
punished for the first offense by a fine as set by the Board and/or Council
from time to time; for the second offense by a fine as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time; and for the third and each subsequent offense by a
fine as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time, to which may be
added imprisonment for any determinate period not exceeding 90 days, and each
day after the expiration of the time limit for abating unsanitary conditions
and completing improvements to abate such conditions as ordered by the County
Board of Health or by the duly appointed Health Officer of the county, shall
constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1986)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Off-road vehicles
   
70.02   Weight limits generally
   
70.03   Vehicle registration and inspection
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Off-road vehicles as defined in I.C. 14-16-1-7 may use county roads
outside the corporate limits of any city or town.
   (B)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle as defined in I.C. 14-16-
1-7 without a valid motor vehicle driver’s license or without a vehicle
registration as set forth in I.C. 14-16-1-8.
   (C)   No use otherwise prohibited by state law shall be permitted on county
roads including, but not limited to, the prohibitions found under I.C. 14-16-1-
23.
   (D)   A person who operates an off-road vehicle on county roads shall comply
with all the conditions of I.C. 14-16-1-7, and, specifically, with the
requirements of I.C. 14-16-1-20 and I.C. 14-16-1-21.
   (E)   A person who operates an off-road vehicle on county roads shall have
in effect at all times the minimum amount of liability insurance coverage for
the off-road vehicle as required by state statutes for the operation of an
automobile.
   (F)   A person who operates an all-terrain vehicle (ATV) on county roads
must have at all times an eight-foot rod or pole with an orange or red flag
attached to the ATV.
   (G)   Any law enforcement officer including but not limited to the County
Sheriff’s Department, state police and conservation officers may enforce this
section.
(Ord. 00-13, passed 7-10-2000)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  WEIGHT LIMITS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish weight limits for
vehicles operated on county roads.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COUNTY HIGHWAY.  Any public roadway now or hereafter coming under the
jurisdiction and control of the County Highway Department through the County
Commissioners.
      PERIOD OF POTENTIAL HAZARD AND DETERIORATION.  A period of time not to
exceed 60 days during the late winter and early spring of the year when, due to
increased temperatures, the thawing of the ground and the melting of snow or
ice, the road surfaces and underlying ground are in the process of thawing and
therefore unstable, with an extreme potential for hazard, deterioration and
destruction of the road surface.
      VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon or by which any person or party is or may
be transported and drawn upon a county highway.
   (C)   Weight limit. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
for any reason to operate or control upon or across or over any county highway
or county road any vehicle having a total gross weight in excess of 10,000
pounds for single axle, and 20,000 pounds for dual axle, during any period of
potential hazard and deterioration.
   (D)   Administration.
      (1)   The County Commissioners shall each year determine the period of
potential hazard and deterioration based upon their investigation and
inspection of county roads in light of current weather conditions.
      (2)   The County Commissioners shall, upon determining the period of
potential hazard and deterioration, publish a report of their findings and the
specific dates of potential hazard with the County Auditor.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the report the Auditor shall cause to be published
in the newspaper of general circulation within the county a notice complying
with the requirements of division (E) below. Copies of the notice shall also be
directed to all law enforcement agencies operating within and for the county.
   (E)   Notice. Notice required in division (D) above shall comply with this
division (E) and shall contain the following.
      (1)   Dates. The notice shall specifically designate the date upon which
the period of potential hazard and deterioration began; the period (not to
exceed 60 days) which it will continue and the date upon which it will expire.
      (2)   Findings, prohibition, penalty.
         (a)   The notice shall state the findings contained in the report of
the County Commissioners.
         (b)   The notice shall then state that vehicular traffic in excess of
20,000 pounds gross weight is prohibited from being operated or moved over,
upon or across all county highways and roads during the period of potential
hazard and deterioration or any specifically designated roads.
         (c)   The notice shall also set forth the penalty for violation of
this section as set forth in §
70.99.
   (F)   Closing roads.  The County Commissioners may also at any time upon
investigation and inspection of county highways, determine that certain roads
or portions of roads in the county to be extremely hazardous to the health and
safety of those citizens using the roads, and recommend that these roads be
closed to vehicular traffic and may order and declare those roads therein
designated to be closed and that barricades and warnings be erected as are
necessary to limit said traffic. In the event of road closings under this
section, the roads may be closed immediately and notice published as set forth
above following the erection of signs and barricades and warnings.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This section does not certify as
to the safety or travel upon county highways and roads by vehicular traffic of
any weight in all weather conditions, under all other relevant circumstances
when the limitations and/or closings are not in effect. This section shall not
create any liability on the part of the county, any officer or employee
thereof, for any damages that result from vehicular traffic upon any county
highway or road that results from reliance on this section or administrative
decision thoughtfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2-96, passed 4-15-1996)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  VEHICLE REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-29-4-2, the County Sheriff’s Department shall be
and hereby is authorized to levy and collect a fee for inspecting motor
vehicles which must be inspected prior to registration in the state.
   (B)   The charge for such inspection will be in the sum as set by the Board
and/or Council from time to time for each vehicle so inspected and no
inspection shall be conducted until such fee is paid by means of cash,
certified check or money order. Upon the receipt of said sum by the Sheriff’s
Department, the Sheriff or his or her representative shall immediately issue a
receipt on Sheriff’s Receipt No. 133.
   (C)   All sums collected pursuant to division (B) above shall be deposited
by the County Auditor in the County Sheriff’s Accident Fund and any of such
deposits shall be used only for the education and training of officers and
employees of the County Sheriff’s Department. Further, all expenditures for
said fund must be processed, appropriated and all owed in the same manner as
other claims of the county.
   (D)   All sums collected pursuant to this section shall be accounted for as
follows:
      (1)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall remit to the County Auditor
all receipts at least once each month;
      (2)   The County Auditor shall issue a quietus for remittance specifying
the number of receipts so received from the Sheriff; and
      (3)   The County Auditor shall then receipt the funds to the fund stated
hereinabove.
(Ord. passed - - )  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any part of §
70.01 shall pay a fine as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time,
per violation.
   (C)   Any violation of §
70.02 shall constitute a misdemeanor, and any person found guilty thereof shall
be assessed a fine as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time.
(Ord. 00-13, passed - - ; Ord. 2-96, passed 4-15-1996)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   Bridge travel
      
IV.   Commercial vehicle and truck routes
      
V.   Weight limits
SCHEDULE I:  SPEED LIMITS.
Street Location Speed Limit Ord. No. Date
Street                                                   Location     Speed Ord.    Date
                                                                      Limit No.
                                                         In
                                                         Brewersville
                                                         from its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County  35            3-13-
Base Road                                                Highway #670 mph   06-02   2006
                                                         to its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #700
                                                         North
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 625     35            3-21-
Base Road                                                South to     mph   3-94    1994
                                                         County Road
                                                         600 South
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection 35            6-1-
Base Road                                                with Norris  mph   3-98    1998
                                                         Avenue to
                                                         its dead end
                                                         Work zone
                                                         speed limit
                                                         during
Base Road and County Road 400 West                       construction 20    Res.    3-26-
                                                         and until    mph   12-02   2012
                                                         completion
                                                         of the US 50
                                                         bypass
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 500     35            5-23-
Base Road North (IR 57)                                  North to     mph   11-03   2011
                                                         County Road
                                                         800 North
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Beech Street (IR 599)                                    Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Blueberry Lane (IR 602)                                  Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
Brownstown Road                                          Center       30    8       4-30-
                                                         Township     mph           1990
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Cedar Lane (IR 596)                                      Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Cherry Blossom Lane (IR 611)                             Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Cottonwood Street                                        Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         In Country   30            10-
Country Manor Way                                        Squire Lakes mph   2013-4  24-
                                                                                    2013
                                                         Approaches
                                                         to the ridge 20            7-23-
County Bridge #27                                        over         mph   07-06   2007
                                                         Wyaloosing
                                                         Creek
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County  40
County Highway #20 West                                  Highway #350 mph   05-08   - -
                                                         North to the
                                                         North Vernon
                                                         city limits
                                                         Between
                                                         County
                                                         Highway 500  30            4-28-
County Highway #25 and 50 South                          East and     mph   2016-1  2016
                                                         County
                                                         Highway 600
                                                         East
                                                         From the
                                                         town limits
                                                         of Vernon to 35            5-4-
County Highway #60 South                                 the          mph   JC-3-92 1992
                                                         intersection
                                                         with 125
                                                         West
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with
                                                         Jackson/
                                                         Jennings     35            12-
County Highway #100 North                                County line  mph   01-07   19-
                                                         to its                     2001
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #900
                                                         West
County Highway #100 South                                            30    00-07   5-22-
                                                                      mph           2000
                                                         From the
                                                         North Vernon
                                                         city limits
County Highway #150 North                                to its       40    03-01   3-10-
                                                         intersection mph           2003
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #600
                                                         West
County Highway #200 East                                             30    00-08   5-22-
                                                                      mph           2000
                                                         Between
                                                         County
                                                         Highway #250 40            11-
County Highway #200 North                                West and     mph   03-11   10-
                                                         County                     2003
                                                         Highway #350
                                                         West
                                                         From the
                                                         city limits
                                                         of North
                                                         Vernon (#200 40    99-11   11-8-
County Highway #200 North                                West) to its mph   Revised 2004
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #300
                                                         North
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #900 35            3-14-
County Highway #200 North                                to its       mph   05-05   2005
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway
                                                         #1000 West
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #225 30            5-22-
County Highway #200 South                                West to its  mph   00-09   2000
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #400
                                                         West
                                                         Between
                                                         State Road 7 40    2018-   9-27-
County Highway #250 South                                and County   mph   07      2018
                                                         Highway 275
                                                         East
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with US 50
County Highway #275 East                                 East to its  35    99-13   10-4-
                                                         intersection mph           1999
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #175
                                                         East
                                                         In the       20            9-24-
County Highway #295 West                                 Lawrence     mph   01-03   2001
                                                         Subdivision
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with State
                                                         Highway 7    40            10-4-
County Highway #300 North                                North to its mph   99-10   1999
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #350
                                                         West
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway      35            6-10-
County Highway #300 North                                #1000 West   mph   02-02   2002
                                                         to its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with State
                                                         Highway 3
County Highway #300 South/Crosley Road                   Vernon       30    04-04   2-23-
                                                         Township     mph           2004
                                                         From
                                                         intersection
                                                         with State
                                                         Highway 7 to
                                                         intersection 30            7-21-
County Highway #345 West                                 with County  mph   3-97    1997
                                                         Highway #500
                                                         North and
                                                         County
                                                         Highway #350
                                                         West
                                                         Between
County Highway #350 North                                State        35    2013-05 6-27-
                                                         Highways 3   mph           2013
                                                         and 7
                                                         Between
                                                         County
                                                         Highway #250 40            11-
County Highway #350 West                                 North and    mph   03-11   10-
                                                         County                     2003
                                                         Highway #300
                                                         North
                                                         From the
                                                         city limits
                                                         of North
                                                         Vernon (#200 40    99-11   11-8-
County Highway #350 West                                 West) to its mph   Revised 2004
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #300
                                                         North
                                                                      40            12-
County Highway #350 West                                             mph   2015-11 17-
                                                                                    2015
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #150 30            5-22-
County Highway #400 West                                 South to its mph   00-06   2000
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #275
                                                         South
                                                                      40            12-
County Highway #400 South                                            mph   2015-12 17-
                                                                                    2015
                                                         Between
                                                         north                      12-
County Highway #450/475 East                             entrance of  45    2020-23 10-
                                                         MUTC and     mph           2020
                                                         County Road
                                                         560 North
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with State
                                                         Highway 3 to 30            7-10-
County Highway #500 North                                its          mph   00-11   2000
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #75
                                                         West
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #300 40            10-4-
County Highway #500 West                                 North to its mph   99-12   1999
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #500
                                                         North
                                                         Between
                                                         County
                                                         Highway 175  35            9-27-
County Highway #500 West                                 North and    mph   2018-06 2018
                                                         County
                                                         Highway 300
                                                         North
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with State
                                                         Highway 250
                                                         South to its
County Highway #560 West                                 intersection 35    99-14   10-4-
                                                         with County  mph           1999
                                                         Highway
                                                         #1100 South
                                                         and County
                                                         Highway #600
                                                         West
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #300 40            10-
County Highway #600 West                                 North to its mph   04-12   25-
                                                         intersection               2004
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway Base
                                                         Road
                                                         From
                                                         intersection
                                                         with State                 10-
County Highway #700 West                                 Highway 7 to 30    5-97    20-
                                                         intersection mph           1997
                                                         of County
                                                         Highway #950
                                                         North
County Highway #750 North                                            35    04-08   7-12-
                                                                      mph           2004
                                                         Between
                                                         County
                                                         Highway 500  40            9-27-
County Road #800 North                                   West and     mph   2018-08 2018
                                                         County
                                                         Highway 600
                                                         West
                                                         Between Base
County Highway #800 North                                Road and     45    2021-17 9-23-
                                                         County Road  mph           2021
                                                         200 East
                                                         Between
County Highway #800 South                                County Road  30    2020-12 9-24-
                                                         90 West and  mph           2020
                                                         Base Road
                                                         Between
                                                         County
County Highway #800 West                                 Highway #700 35    04-09   7-12-
                                                         South and    mph           2004
                                                         Commiskey
                                                         Pike
                                                         From its
                                                         intersection
                                                         with State
                                                         Highway 7 to 35            10-
County Highway #900 North                                its          mph   04-10   12-
                                                         intersection               2004
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #900
                                                         West
                                                         Between
                                                         County Road
County Highway #900 West                                 500 South    35    JC-4-92 5-4-
                                                         and County   mph           1992
                                                         Road 700
                                                         South
                                                         Between
                                                         County Road  35            6-25-
County Highway #975/1000 North                           200 East and mph   2020-07 2020
                                                         County Road
                                                         740 East
                                                         From
                                                         intersection
                                                         with County
                                                         Highway #750 30            12-
County Highway #1220 North                               East to      mph   7-97    15-
                                                         intersection               1997
                                                         of County
                                                         Highway #800
                                                         East
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 25 East 35            3-21-
County Road 20 North                                     to County    mph   3-94    1994
                                                         Road 175
                                                         East
                                                         From County
County Road 25 East                                      Road 400     30    06-01   2-13-
                                                         South to     mph           2006
                                                         State Road 3
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 90 East 35            3-21-
County Road 25 North                                     to County    mph   3-94    1994
                                                         Road 109
                                                         East
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 200                   10-
County Road 25 West/115 South/175 West/225 West    (IR South (Zion  35    10-04   11-
31)                                                      Church Road) mph           2010
                                                         to Vernon
                                                         town limit
                                                         From County
County Road 85 West                                      Road 800     35    3-94    3-21-
                                                         North to end mph           1994
                                                         of road
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 115
                                                         South to
                                                         Base Road    35            10-
County Road 95 West (IR 129) (Norris Avenue Extension)   (North       mph   10-03   11-
                                                         Vernon city                2010
                                                         limit) in
                                                         Vernon
                                                         Township
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 350
                                                         North south  30            11-
County Road 100 East                                     to the dead  mph   08-10   24-
                                                         end (335N)                 2008
                                                         in Center
                                                         Township
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 115
                                                         South to     35            10-
County Road 125/150 West  (IR 33)                       County Road  mph   10-05   11-
                                                         300 South in               2010
                                                         Vernon
                                                         Township
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 400                   2-23-
                                                         South to     30    04-04;  2004;
County Road 130 East/160 East                            County Road  mph   06-01   2-13-
                                                         300 South,                 2006
                                                         Vernon
                                                         Township
County Road 160 East                                     Vernon       30    04-04   2-23-
                                                         Township     mph           2004
                                                         From US 50
County Road 200 North                                    to County    40    3-94    3-21-
                                                         Road 550     mph           1994
                                                         East
                                                         From State
                                                         Road 3 to    30            2-23-
County Road 250 South                                    State Road   mph   04-04   2004
                                                         7, Vernon
                                                         Township
County Road 265 West                                     Center       35    07-05   7-23-
                                                         Township     mph           2007
                                                         Between
County Road 300 South/160 East/250 South                 State Road 3 30    06-01   2-13-
                                                         and State    mph           2006
                                                         Road 7
                                                         Located in
County Road 300 West/310 West                            Lovett and   35    07-04   7-23-
                                                         Montgomery   mph           2007
                                                         Townships
                                                         Between
                                                         County Road
                                                         200 North    40            9-12-
County Road 400 East (IR 321)                            and the dead mph   05-09   2005
                                                         end at
                                                         County Road
                                                         100 North
County Road 400 West                                     From US 50   25    3-94    3-21-
                                                         to end       mph           1994
                                                         From State
County Road 500 North                                    Road 3 to    35    11-03   5-23-
(IR 56)                                                  Base Road    mph           2011
                                                         North
                                                         From State
County Road 500 South                                    Road 7 to    40    3-94    3-21-
                                                         County Road  mph           1994
                                                         800 East
                                                         From State
County Road 500 South                                    Road 3 to    35    3-94    3-21-
                                                         County Road  mph           1994
                                                         300 West
                                                         from County
                                                         Road 300     45            3-21-
County Road 500 South                                    West to      mph   3-94    1994
                                                         County Road
                                                         600 West
                                                         Between
                                                         County
                                                         Highway 150  35            4-28-
County Road 500 East                                     South and    mph   2016-2  2016
                                                         County
                                                         Highway 200
                                                         North
500/510 South                                            Between SR 3 40    2019-7  8-22-
                                                         and SR 7     mph           2019
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 575
                                                         West (Hayden
                                                         - Scipio     35            10-
County Road 580/600 North (IR 54)                        Pike) to     mph   10-06   11-
                                                         County Road                2010
                                                         500 North in
                                                         Geneva
                                                         Township
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 200     40            3-21-
County Road 600 East                                     South to     mph   3-94    1994
                                                         County Road
                                                         100 North
                                                         From Base    35            3-21-
County Road 600 South                                    Road to      mph   3-94    1994
                                                         State Road 7
                                                         From State   35            3-21-
County Road 650 South                                    Road 3 to    mph   3-94    1994
                                                         Base Road
County Road 675 North                                                35    04-02   2-9-
                                                                      mph           2003
                                                         From US 50
County Road 700 West                                     to County    40    3-94    3-21-
                                                         Road 500     mph           1994
                                                         South
County Road 750 North                                                35    7       5-2-
                                                                      mph           1988
                                                         From Base
County Road 800 North                                    Road North   35    11-03   5-23-
(IR 68)                                                  to State     mph           2011
                                                         Road 3
                                                         From State
County Road 850 South                                    Road 3 to    35    3-94    3-21-
                                                         County Road  mph           1994
                                                         310 West
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 310
                                                         West to
                                                         County Road
County Road 850 South                                    1000 West    45    3-94    3-21-
                                                         (Jackson     mph           1994
                                                         County line)
                                                         (other
                                                         posted in
                                                         curves)
                                                         From County
                                                         Road 750
                                                         North to
                                                         County Road  35            11-
County Road 900/940 West                                 1000 West    mph   08-11   24-
                                                         (Bartholomew               2008
                                                         County line)
                                                         in Geneva
                                                         Township
                                                         Between
                                                         County       35            12-
950 South                                                Highway 300  mph   2018-15 13-
                                                         West and SR                2018
                                                         3
                                                         Sand Creek
                                                         Township,
County Road 950 North                                    from County  35    07-06   7-23-
                                                         Road 110     mph           2007
                                                         East to
                                                         State Road 3
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Cross Roads Street                                       Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Between
                                                         County       20            9-27-
Deece Drive                                              Highway 175  mph   2018-09 2018
                                                         North and
                                                         terminus
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Dogwood Street (IR 593)                                  Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Elm Street (IR 594)                                      Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         From State
Grayford Road (County Road 150 South)                    Road 7 to    45    3-94    3-21-
                                                         County Road  mph           1994
                                                         600 East
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Gum Street (IR 595)                                      Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Huckleberry Street (IR 607)                              Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Lynn Street                                              Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Maple Street (IR 612)                                    Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Mulberry Street (IR 603 and 605)                         Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Poinsetta Drive (IR 600)                                 Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Poplar Street (IR 597)                                   Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
River Road (IR 602)                                      Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         From County
Rock Rest Road                                           Road 10      30    3-94    3-21-
                                                         North to US  mph           1994
                                                         50
                                                         Between West
                                                         Base Road
South County Highway 90 West                             and West     30    2014-09 2-27-
                                                         County       mph           2014
                                                         Highway 115
                                                         South
                                                         Between
                                                         County       20            9-27-
Spencer Road                                             Highway 175  mph   2018-10 2018
                                                         North and
                                                         terminus
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Sycamore Street (IR 606)                                 Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Between
                                                         County       20            9-27-
Victoria Drive                                           Highway 175  mph   2018-11 2018
                                                         North and
                                                         terminus
                                                         Within
                                                         Indiana
Walnut Street (IR 598)                                   Gardens and  30    05-09   9-12-
                                                         Glenwood     mph           2005
                                                         Park
                                                         subdivisions
                                                         Between
West County Highway 150 North                            Brownstown   30    2014-07 2-27-
                                                         Road and     mph           2014
                                                         Kipper Lane
Any roads in Crystal Glades                              Entire       25    00-15   9-25-
                                                         subdivision  mph           2000
                                                         County Roads
                                                         700 West,
                                                         660 West,    30            3-21-
All roads in Hayden                                      675 West, 10 mph   3-94    1994
                                                         South, 20
                                                         South and
                                                         Base Road
All roads in Hickory Hills                                           25    3-94    3-21-
                                                                      mph           1994
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II:  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Drivers shall stop as indicated at the following intersections.
Intersection Type of Stop Ord. No. Date
Intersection                  Type of Stop                  Ord. No. Date
County Highway #300 North at  Three-way stop                04-11    10-12-2004
County Highway #500 West
County Highway #400 North at  Three-way stop                05-07    7-11-2005
County Highway #500 West
County Road 75 West at JFK    Three-way stop at the “T” 05-01    - -2005
Drive                         intersection
                              1) All vehicles shall stop on
                              County Road 300 for eastbound
                              and westbound traffic;
County Road 150 West (IR 33)  2) All vehicles shall stop on
at County Road 300 South (IR  County Road 150 West for      07-09    10-22-2007
24)                           southbound traffic;
                              3) All vehicles shall
                              continue on County Road 150
                              West for northbound (through)
                              traffic
County Road 390 North (IR     Three-way stop for all
169) at County Road 550 East  traffic directions            2011-01  3-28-2011
(IR 45)
County Highway 510 South and  Three-way stop                2019-6   8-22-2019
County Highway 100 East
                              1) All vehicles shall stop on
                              County Road 580 North for
County Road 650 West (IR 195) eastbound and westbound
at County Road 580 North (IR  traffic;                      08-09    7-28-2008
54)                           2) All vehicles shall stop on
                              County Road 650 West for
                              northbound and southbound
                              traffic
County Road 900 North (IR 74) Three-way stop for all
at County Road 600 East (IR   traffic directions            2011-02  3-28-2011
69)
County Road 900 West (IR 19)  All vehicles shall stop
south of County Road 100      (three-way stop) at said
North (IR 34) and County Road intersections for all traffic 2009-04  6-8-2009
900 West (IR 47) north of     directions (both legs of
County Road 100 North (IR 34) offset intersection)
 
   (B)   All vehicles traveling the county roadways which intersect with a
railroad, shall stop prior to crossing said tracks at all locations not
controlled by automatic crossing devices. Crossings in the county are as
follows:
County Road Crossing # Ord. No. Date
County Road                  Crossing # Ord. No. Date
CSX Railroad
Brownstown Road              588        00-05    4-24-2000
Brush Cr. Drive (550 East)   573        00-05    4-24-2000
Main Street-Butlerville      574        00-05    4-24-2000
175 East                     579        00-05    4-24-2000
275 East                     578        00-05    4-24-2000
500 North                    570        00-05    4-24-2000
580 West                     591        00-05    4-24-2000
700 West                     592        00-05    4-24-2000
750 West                     593        00-05    4-24-2000
820 North - Nebraska         569        00-05    4-24-2000
900 West                     595        00-05    4-24-2000
Madison Railroad
75 East                      956        00-05    4-24-2000
150 South (Grayford Road)    960        00-05    4-24-2000
250 East                     962        00-05    4-24-2000
250 South                    963        00-05    4-24-2000
450 South (Broomsage)        965        00-05    4-24-2000
500 South (County Line Road) 966        00-05    4-24-2000
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III:  BRIDGE TRAVEL.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle or combination of vehicles,
unladen or with load, over, on or through the roads and bridges listed below if
the height of said vehicle or load exceeds a height of eight feet and six
inches above a level surface upon which the vehicle stands.
      (1)   Low vertical clearance warning signs shall be posted at the
bridges. The owner and/or operator of the vehicles shall be responsible for
determining that sufficient vertical clearance is provided above their vehicle
prior to attempting to travel the said roads and bridges.
      (2)   The county assumes no liability for any damages or injury to
persons who violate this height restriction. Any person who owns and/or
operates any vehicle or moves any object over said bridges is liable for all
damages that the public road and bridge may sustain as a result of any illegal
operation of the vehicle or the moving of any vehicle or object in excess of
the posted vertical height restriction.
 
BRIDGE                       COUNTY ROAD
James Covered Bridge No. 85  650 South (IR 116) from State Road 3 to Base Road
Scipio Covered Bridge No. 25 575 West (IR 64) from State Road 7 to 500 West
 
   (B)   Only one vehicle shall be permitted to cross James Covered Bridge No.
85 or Scipio Covered Bridge No. 25 at one time in either direction.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 3-28-2011; Ord. 2014-11, passed 3-27-2014)  Penalty, see
§
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Weight limits on certain bridges, see
Schedule V
SCHEDULE IV:  COMMERCIAL VEHICLE AND TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   (1)   The following roadways and bridges with restricted weight limit
capacity shall be designated as “no through truck” routes or “no truck”
structures:
LOCATION ORD. DATE
LOCATION                                                                         ORD.  DATE
County Road 75 West (IR 55) from North Vernon city limits to County Road 500     2010- 7-
North                                                                            02    26-
                                                                                       2010
                                                                                 2010- 7-
County Road 100 North (IR 34) from 1000 West (county line) to 600 West           02    26-
                                                                                       2010
Road 300 North (IR 44) from State Road 3 to State Road 7
County Road 575 West (IR 64) from State Road 7 to County Road 500 West (Scipio   2010- 7-
Covered Bridge)                                                                  02    26-
                                                                                       2010
County Road 650 South (IR 116) from State Road 3 to Base Road (James Covered     2010- 7-
Bridge)                                                                          02    26-
                                                                                       2010
                                                                                 2010- 7-
County Road 675 North (IR 64) from State Road 3 to County Road 225 West          02    26-
                                                                                       2010
                                                                                 2019- 1-
Rockcrest Road between 20 North and US 50                                        2     24-
                                                                                       2019
All locations throughout the county on county roadways under the jurisdiction of 2010- 7-
the county (bridges and small structures), having a “Posted Weight Limit” of 02    26-
tons or less, per County Engineer.                                                     2010
 
      (2)   Farmers who are harvesting crops from fields adjacent to the posted
roadways may travel said roadway sections from the fields to market or to
storage facilities on the farm without violating this schedule. Farmers must
document origin and destination of crops, if requested to do so by law
enforcement.
   (B)   All commercial sanitation vehicles shall use the following route to
the county landfill and no other: from U.S. Highway 50 to County Road 580 West,
there to Base Road; thence east to County Road 600 West; thence north to County
Road 175 North, thence east on 175 North to the landfill. Those vehicles shall
return from the landfill to U.S. Highway 50 using the same route.
(Ord. 5-94, passed 8-15-1994; Ord. 2010-02, passed 7-26-2010; Ord. 2019-2,
passed 1-24-2019)   Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V:  WEIGHT LIMITS.
   No motor vehicle shall exceed the indicated weight limit in the following
locations.
 
ROAD OR BRIDGE                                  WEIGHT LIMIT ORD.    DATE
Bridge No. 29                                   Five tons    2014-08 2-27-2014
County Road 925 West/950 West between Commiskey Ten tons     04-05   3-8-2004
Pike (750 S) and State Road 250 (975 S)
James Bridge No. 85                             Five tons    2014-11 3-27-2014
Scipio Bridge No. 25                            Five tons    2014-12 3-27-2014
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animal control supervision
   
90.03   Animal control facility
   
90.04   Immunization
   
90.05   Restraint, control and confinement
   
90.06   Vicious animals
   
90.07   Animal care
   
90.08   Kennels and commercial dog breeding
   
90.09   Appeals procedure
   
90.10   Costs and expenses
   
90.11   Venue and choice of law
   
90.12   Application of chapter
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
    For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To desert an animal or to leave the animal permanently in a place
without provisions or adequate long-term care of the animal, to voluntary
relinquish possession of an animal with the intention to terminate ownership of
the animal without transferring its ownership to any other person.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. Food that is not spoiled or contaminated and is of sufficient
quantity and quality to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition
and size of the animal. The animal shall be fed or have food available at least
once a day, unless a licensed veterinarian instructs otherwise.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A leak-proof structure with three sides and a roof and a
floor.
   ADEQUATE WATER. The continual access to a supply of clean, unfrozen water
provided in a sanitary manner suitable for the species, condition and age of
the animal in sufficient amounts to maintain good health in the animal.
   ADEQUATE VENTILATION. Fresh air sufficient to provide for the health of an
animal.
   ANIMAL. Any live, non-human, vertebrate creature (i.e. mammal, reptile,
aquatic, amphibian, avian.)
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person employed by the county and authorized to
perform the duties required by this chapter and any other state of federal law.
   ANIMAL CRUELTY. An intentional or malicious act(s) whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain, suffering or death is caused.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by or under contract with the county
or a municipal corporation for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals
held pursuant to this chapter, a court order of any other applicable law. The
term shall also include any agent or employee of such a facility.
   AT LARGE ANIMAL. Any animal not on the premises of its owner or not under
the reasonable control of a competent human being. This term shall not include
any dog engaged in lawful hunting activities in the company of its owner or
custodian.
   COLONY. A group of one or more feral cats, whether unmanaged or managed.
   COLONY CARETAKER.  An authorized person who provides food and water for
feral cats in a registered colony.
   COMPETENT PERSON. As referenced herein means a person possessing the ability
and proficiency to identify when an animal is in danger and/or exhibiting signs
of suffering or distress, as well as the ability to adequately intervene. A
person physically and verbally capable to control an animal.
   DOG.  Includes of the canis familiaris species, and hybrids of a canis
familiaris and any other member of the canis genus, including wolves.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Dog, cat, ferret or any other small animal such as guinea
pig, lizard, hamster, mouse or snake, which may normally be held or maintained
as a pet.
   DUMPING. To deposit or dispose of unwanted animals in a careless, neglectful
or hurried way, alive or deceased.
   EXOTIC ANIMALS.  Animals not otherwise defined in this chapter. The term
includes animals not commonly used as domestic pets or livestock and not native
to the North American continent.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been exposed to rabies if it has been
bitten by or been in contact with any animal known or reasonably suspected to
have been infected with rabies.
   FERAL CAT. Any cat that has no apparent owner or identification and is wild,
untamed, not socialized, unmanageable and unable to be approached or handled.
   FOWL.  Game fowl or land fowl (chickens, turkey and guinea) and water fowl
(duck, goose, and swan) but not limited to.
   HARBOR. To permit to remain at large, to keep, to feed, to shelter or care
for an animal within or upon a person's property or property under a person's
control. An animal that is fed or sheltered for three consecutive days by a
person within or upon their home, enclosure, yard or place of business, or upon
any premises under a person's control, is presumed to be harbored by that
person.
   HENNEKE HORSE BODY CONDITION SCORING SYSTEM.  A numerical scale used to
evaluate the amount of fat on a horse's body. It is a standardized system that
can be used across all breeds without specialized equipment, condition is
assessed visually and by palpation, scores range from 1 (poor) to 9 (extremely
fat) ideal range being 4 to 6 as a whole.
   HUMANE TRAP. Any device used for capturing an animal without inflicting
injury, pain or suffering and which provides adequate ventilation for the
trapped animal.
   IMPOUNDMENT.  The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an Animal Control Officer or other officer empowered to act by law and
transporting it to an Animal Control Facility.
   KENNEL.
      (1)   Property or a facility which:
         (a)   A person owns, keeps boards, or harbors six or more dogs, cats,
12 weeks or age or older;
         (b)   Produces two or more litters per year issuing from dog or cat
owned, kept or harbored therein; or
         (c)   Offers for sale dogs or cats from two litters or more issuing
from dogs or cats owned, kept or harbored therein.
      (2)   The term does not apply to animal shelters, veterinary hospitals
not engaged in commercial boarding or breeding and groomers not engaged in
commercial boarding or breeding.
   LIVESTOCK ANIMALS.  Includes rabbits, bovine, equine, swine, llamas,
alpacas, sheep, goats, poultry/fowl/bird and any other four-legged animal
excluding dogs and cats.
   NEGLECT.  The failure of a person to provide an animal owned or harbored by
that person with sufficient and wholesome food, water, shelter and reasonable
care including veterinary treatment, necessary to prevent suffering of the
animal.
   OWNER.  Any person who owns, has ownership or custody rights of an animal,
firm association, cooperative, partnership, company or corporation. Persons
shall not be deemed to own or be owners of such animals until 30 days has
passed with proper advertising (i.e. newspaper, flyers and social media). The
Animal Shelter and animal rescues under the authority of an Animal Control
Officer are exempt of the 30 days and require a three- to five-day hold.
   PERSON. Any human being, firm, association, cooperative, partnership,
company or corporation.
   PROTECTION FROM THE WEATHER. Shade from the sun and a heat/warming source
for the cold.
   POULTRY.  Any domesticated bird kept for eggs or meat.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.  Any animal, other than domestic livestock, that molests,
harasses or threatens persons or vehicles, attacks persons or animals, damages
public or private property, causes significant discomfort to or an unacceptable
and excessive annoyance to persons to the extent it interferes with their
peaceful enjoyment of private or public property, unless engaged in lawful
hunting, so as to disrupt the peace and quiet of the public.
   RUNNING AT LARGE.  Any animal that leave or strays from that land owned,
rented or leased by the owner or possessor of the animal.
   SPACE (ADEQUATE).  Any area in which an animal is confined should be
suitable for the animal's species, size, age and breed, allowing to turn about
freely, stand, sit, lie and move comfortably and in a normal position. Sick and
injured animals should be confined as directed by the veterinarian.
   TUFTS ANIMAL CARE AND CONDITION SCALES (TACC).  Scales developed for the use
of veterinarians, animal control officers, police and cruelty investigators by
Tufts Center for Animals and public policy for the purpose of assessing body
condition, weather and environment safety and physical care in animals.
   UNSANITARY CONDITIONS. Animal housing or quarters, including exercise areas,
that are contaminated by health hazards, irritants, items or conditions that
endanger or pose a risk to an animals health, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Excessive animal waste, garbage, trash;
      (2)   Standing water or mud;
      (3)   Rancid/contaminated food or water;
      (4)   Fumes, foul or noxious odor, air, hazardous chemical or poisons;
      (5)   Decaying material;
      (6)   Uncontrolled parasites or rodent infestation; or
      (7)   Area that contain nails, screws, broken glass, broken boards, pits,
poisons, sharp implements or other items that could cause injury, illness or
death to an animal.
   VETERINARY CARE (ADEQUATE). Care provided under the direction of a licensed
veterinarian and includes medical care to maintain an animal's health and
prevent unnecessary suffering. Adequate care is based on age, species and breed
and the potential for a disease or condition to spread to other animals or
humans, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Ongoing infections;
      (2)   Infestation of parasites;
      (3)   Any disease; or
      (4)   Medical condition or injury where withholding or neglecting to
provide such care would
endanger the health or welfare of the animal.
   VETERINARIAN. A person licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state
or U.S.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that attacks, bites or injures human beings,
pets, companion animals or livestock or which, because of temperament,
conditioning or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite or injure a
human being, pets, companion animals or livestock. No dog may be declared
vicious if a threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who, at the
time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner or keeper of the dog or was teasing, tormenting, abusing
or assaulting the dog or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have
teased, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was committing or attempting
to commit a crime. The definition shall not be construed to include dogs that
are part or a governmental organization or a trained guard dog in performance
of its duties.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal whose species usually lives in the wild or is not
domesticated.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 90.02  ANIMAL CONTROL SUPERVISION.
   (A)   The Animal Control Board shall consist of five members to be appointed
as follows: one member to be appointed by the Jennings County Council, one
member to be appointed by the North Vernon City Council, one member to be
appointed by the North Vernon Mayor and two members to be appointed by the
Jennings County Commissioners. It shall not be required that a licensed
veterinarian serve on the Animal Control Board. The Animal Control Board shall
have direct supervision of the Animal Control Officer, staff, building,
facilities and treatment of the animals. The Animal Control Board shall have
broad authority and shall:
      (1)   Report to the County Commissioners as necessary and as requested by
the County Commissioners;
      (2)   Formulate policies, principles, standards and regulations for the
control and humane treatment of all animals within the county;
      (3)   Meet on a monthly basis;
      (4)   Supervise the enforcement of the terms of this chapter and to make
recommendations to the Commissioners and City/County Councils as to the
ordinances necessary for the care and treatment of all animals within the
county;
      (5)   Review the decisions and actions of the Animal Control staff in any
matter related to the enforcement of this chapter. Upon the written request for
a hearing concerning the enforcement of this chapter, the Board shall meet in a
timely fashion to hear the complaint. All complaints must be filed in writing;
      (6)   Discipline employees consistent with the county Personnel Policies.
All disciplinary actions taken by the Animal Control Board shall be reviewed
and finalized by the County Commissioners;
      (7)   Oversee the budget approved by the County Commissioners for Animal
Control, with said duties including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Approve any and all monies spent or funding dispensed by the
Animal Control Board or Animal Control Officers or employees in excess of $500,
excluding animal food purchases;
         (b)   If it is necessary for the Animal Control Officer or an Animal
Control employee to make a purchase in excess of $500, prior to the next
monthly meeting of the Animal Control Board, then the officer or employee shall
obtain approval from the sitting County Commissioner President prior to said
purchase;
         (c)   Approve any and all claims for monies or funding PRIOR to any
disbursements being made;
      (8)   Have the authority to enter and inspect the Animal Control Shelter
at any time without prior permission or consent from any Animal Control Officer
or employee.
   (B)   (1)   Supervision of the Animal Control Officer, powers, duties, and
responsibilities of Animal Control Officer. The Animal Control Officer shall be
under the direct supervision of the Animal Control Board, the Animal Control
Officer shall:
         (a)   Report to County Commissioners as necessary and upon request of
the County Commissioners;
         (b)   Report to the Animal Control Board as necessary and upon request
of the Animal Control Board;
         (c)   Attend all Animal Control Board meetings;
         (d)   Be dispatched and clocked in and out by the County Sheriff's
Department;
         (e)   Be paid by salary to be determined by the County Commissioners
and shall have overtime and compensatory time paid in accordance with the
county Policies and Procedures Manual;
            1.   Overtime must be recorded by the Animal Control Officer on a
count employee timesheet and said log detailing when, where, and how much
overtime was worked;
            2.   Compensatory time must be recorded by the Animal Control
Officer on a county employee timesheet with said log detailing when and where
the compensatory time was earned and how much compensatory time was used;
            3.   Overtime and compensatory time must coordinate. Failure of
Animal Control Officer to be able to coordinate overtime and compensatory time
may result in disciplinary action by the Animal Control Board and/or the County
Commissioners.
         (f)   Keep a gas log in the Animal Control vehicle, which shall
document the mileage of the vehicle and how much gas (gallons and cost) was
deposited in the vehicle every time the vehicle is filled. Failure of Animal
Control Officer to accurately record gas fill ups on the gas log may result in
disciplinary action by the Animal Control Board and/or the County
Commissioners.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer shall have the following powers, duties,
and responsibilities:
         (a)   Formulate policies, principles, standards and regulations for
the control and humane treatment of all animals within the county in accordance
with the Animal Control Board and the County Commissioners;
         (b)   Supervise the enforcement of the terms of this chapter and to
make recommendations to the Commissioners and City/County Councils in
accordance with the Animal Control Board as to the ordinances necessary for the
care and treatment of all animals within the county.
         (c)   Review the decisions and actions of the Animal Control staff in
any matter related to the enforcement of this chapter in accordance with the
Animal Control Board. Upon the written request for a hearing concerning the
enforcement of this chapter, the Board shall meet in a timely fashion to hear
the complaint. All complaints must be filed in writing.
         (d)   In the execution of his or her duties, the Animal Control
Officer and staff shall have the power to enter real property in immediate
pursuit of an animal reasonable believed to be in violation of this chapter, a
state or federal statute or rule, or a court order; however, an Animal Control
Officer shall not enter dwelling or the curtilage thereto without consent of a
person who resides therein unless accompanied by a uniformed law enforcement
officer with a search or arrest warrant. This division shall not be construed
to prohibit the Animal Control Officer from approaching a dwelling and knocking
on the door to make contact or speak with a resident.
      (3)   The County Sheriff shall:
         (a)   Report to County Commissioners as necessary and upon request of
the County Commissioners;
         (b)   Monitor hours of the Animal Control Officer and other full-time
employees, including hours worked, vacation, overtime, and compensatory time
earned;
         (c)   Provide dispatch services for Animal Control;
         (d)   Have authority over Animal Control only to the extent of
dispatching Animal Control as needed and tracking and reporting the Animal
Control Officer's time worked.
   (C)   All other Animal Control employees shall be under the direct
supervision of the Animal Control Board and Animal Control Officer. Said
employees shall:
      (1)   Report to County Commissioners as necessary and at the request of
the County Commissioners;
      (2)   Formulate policies, principles, standards and regulations for the
control and humane treatment of all animals within the county in accordance
with the Animal Control Officer, the Animal Control Board, and the County
Commissioners;
      (3)   Supervise the enforcement of the terms of this chapter and to make
recommendations to the Commissioners and City/County Councils in accordance
with the Animal Control Office and the Animal Control Board as to the
ordinances necessary for the care and treatment of all animals within the
county;
      (4)   In the execution of his or her duties, an Animal Control employee
shall have the power to enter real property in immediate pursuit of an animal
reasonably believed to be in violation of this chapter, a state or federal
statute or rule, or a court order; however, an Animal Control Officer shall not
enter a dwelling or the curtilage thereto without the consent of a person who
resides therein unless accompanied by a uniformed law enforcement officer with
a search or arrest warrant. This division shall not be construed to prohibit
the Animal Control Officer from approaching a dwelling and knocking on the door
to make contact or speak with a resident;
      (5)   Shall keep track of overtime and compensatory time in the manner
described in division  (B)(1)(e) above. Failure of an employee to comply with
said procedure may result in disciplinary action by the Animal Control Board
and/or the County Commissioners;
      (6)   Shall keep a gas log in the Animal Control vehicle in the manner
described in division (B)(1)(f) above. Failure of an employee to comply with
said procedure may result in disciplinary action by the Animal Control Board
and/or the County Commissioners;
      (7)   Any part-time employees of Animal Control shall keep track of time
worked, including vacation, overtime, and compensatory time earned manually.
The Animal Control Board shall be responsible for submitting part-time
employees' time worked to the County Auditor.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 90.03  ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY.
   (A)   Hours of operation.
      (1)   The Animal Control Facility shall have hours of operation on Monday
through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
      (2)   Evening and weekend hours may be adopted at the discretion of the
Animal Control Board in order to allow for animal adoptions.
      (3)   During hours of operation, the Animal Control Shelter shall be open
to the public, including members of the Animal Control Board.
   (B)   Volunteers at Animal Control Facility.
      (1)   Non-animal control employees and members of the public shall be
able to volunteer time and/or resources to the Animal Control Shelter.
      (2)   Said volunteers shall be required to complete and sign a liability
waiver acknowledging neither Animal Control or the county may be held liable
for any injury or loss a volunteer may incur during the course of volunteering.
This waiver must be on file at the Animal Control Shelter prior to any
volunteer duties being performed.
      (3)   Said volunteers may be subject to a criminal background check at
the discretion of the Animal Control Officer and/or the Animal Control Board.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 90.04  IMMUNIZATION.
   Animals not immunized against rabies.
   (A)   It is unlawful to harbor a dog, cat or ferret over the age of six
months which is not immunized against rabies.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall have the authority to cite, if
necessary, any person who owns or harbors a non-immunized animal for
prosecution.
   (C)   The Animal Control Officer may order the destruction, quarantine or
impoundment of a domestic animal that has bitten a person or animal, or the
destruction, quarantine or impoundment of any domestic animal bitten by a rabid
animal, pursuant to Indiana law.
   (D)   Any person who violates this section commits a Class C ordinance
violation, if the animal causes any bodily injury to a person no matter how
minor, the offense is a Class B ordinance violation.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  RESTRAINT, CONTROL AND CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   At-large animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or person having custody or
control of an animal to run at large so as to create a public nuisance.
      (2)   An owner or person having custody or control of an animal shall not
allow such animal to stray beyond his premises unless under the reasonable
control of some person.
      (3)   Working farm dogs used for tending purposes or dogs engaged in
lawful hunting, trials or dog show activities, while accompanied by the owner
or custodian, are exempt from this chapter.
      (4)   An owner or person having custody or control of an animal in
violation of this section commits a Class C Ordinance violation. However, if
said at-large animal also creates a public nuisance, the violation is a Class B
Ordinance violation.
      (5)   In addition to any fines specified in this chapter, any person who
allows or causes any animals to stray onto, or to be found upon, a public
highway or other public property, shall be liable for the costs of removal and
storage of said animals and notification to the owner.
   (B)   Female dog in heat.
      (1)   Any female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or some
enclosure in such a manner that the female dog in heat cannot come into contact
with a male dog, except for planned breeding.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, an owner or person having
custody or control of any female dog not so confined commits a Class B
ordinance violation. Provided that if the animal is an at-large dog which has
not been spayed and is over the age of six months, the violation is a Class A
ordinance violation. Provided further that if, within 30 days of the commission
of a Class A ordinance violation pursuant to this section, the owner or person
having custody or control of the dog submits to an Animal Control Officer a
receipt or a verified statement from a licensed veterinarian that the dog has
been spayed, the violation will be reduced to a Class B ordinance violation.
   (C)   At-large dogs.
      (1)   An owner or person having custody or control of a dog shall not
allow such dog to stray beyond his or her premises.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, a person who violates this
section commits a Class B ordinance violation. Provided that if the animal is
an at-large dog which has not been spayed or neutered and is over the age of
six months, the violation is a Class A ordinance violation. Provided further
that if, within 30 days of the commission of a Class A ordinance violation
pursuant to this section, the owner or person having custody or control of the
dog submits to a County Animal Control Officer a receipt or a verified
statement from a licensed veterinarian that the dog has been spayed or
neutered, the violation will be reduced to a Class B ordinance violation.
   (D)   At-large livestock.
      (1)   An owner shall not allow his or her livestock to stray beyond their
premises.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, a person who violates this
section commits a Class B ordinance violation.
   (E)   At-large wild or exotic animals.
      (1)   An owner of a wild or exotic animal shall not allow the animal to
stray beyond his or her premises.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, a person who violates this
section commits a Class A ordinance violation.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)    Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Vicious dog.
      (1)   A vicious dog shall be confined by the owner within a building or
secure enclosure and shall be securely muzzled or caged whenever off the
premises of the owner or person having custody or control of such dog. Such
confinement and restraint shall be sufficient to insure that persons and
property will not suffer harm from such dog.
      (2)   The owner or person having custody or control of a vicious dog not
so confined, muzzled or caged commits a Class B ordinance violation for the
first offense and a Class A ordinance violation for any subsequent offense. If
the vicious dog not so confined, muzzled or caged causes any bodily injury to a
person, the offense is a Class A ordinance violation, regardless of whether
there have been any prior offenses.
      (3)   An Animal Control Officer may seize, impound or order the
destruction of any vicious dog, and if such dog is seized, impounded or
destroyed, the owner of person having custody or control of such dog shall be
responsible for payment of all expenses arising from or related to the seizure,
impoundment or destruction.
   (B)   Public nuisance.
      (1)   An owner or person having custody or control of an animal shall
exercise due care and control of such animal so as to prevent the animal from
becoming a public nuisance.
      (2)   An owner or person having custody or control of an animal who
permits such animal to become a public nuisance commits a Class C ordinance
violation for the first offense and a Class B ordinance violation for any
subsequent offense.
   (C)   Impoundment; alternative penalty.
      (1)   Any at-large animal, unlicensed dog, vicious dog, female dog in
heat that is not confined, or neglected animal, may be taken by law enforcement
officers or by an Animal Control Officer and impounded in the animal shelter or
impounded at suitable alternative facilities approved by the Commission.
      (2)   If the owner of an impounded animal can be identified by a license
tag or other reasonable means, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately
upon impoundment notify such owner by telephone or mail of the impoundment.
      (3)   For the purpose of notifying owners whose identities cannot
reasonably be determined that missing animals may have been impounded pursuant
to this ordinance, notice shall be placed weekly in a newspaper of general
circulation within the county to that effect. The published notice shall
contain the name, address, telephone number and hours of operation of the
facility in which the animals are impounded to enable owners to locate and
retrieve the animals. Notices individually describing impounded animals are not
required.
      (4)   Any animal that is not claimed by the owner whose identity is
determined with three to five days of notification shall become the property of
the county and may be placed for adoption or humanely euthanized.
      (5)   An owner claiming an impounded animal shall pay all costs
associated with the seizure and the impoundment of such animal, including all
necessary treatment costs, expenses of notification, expenses associated with
any legal fees established by the county or any alternative facility approved
by the Commission and used to impound such animal.
      (6)   In addition to or in lieu of impounding an animal, a law
enforcement officer or an Animal Control Officer may issue to a person
violating any provision of this chapter a notice of ordinance violation. If the
person has not paid the fine and all associated expenses within two weeks of
receiving such notice, the Animal Control Officer may refer the violation to
the County Attorney for further action, which may include prosecution of the
violation in court.
      (7)   All dogs impounded under this section and not registered, licenses,
tagged and redeemed shall be placed for adoption or disposed of in a humane
manner after the expiration of the following time periods:
         (a)   Three to five days after notice is given to the owner per
division (C)(3) above;
         (b)   Three to five days after impoundment when the owner is unknown;
or
         (c)   At a time fixed by the court or by law.
      (8)   Notwithstanding any other language in this ordinance, under no
circumstances may a vicious dog be place for adoption.
   (D)   Impoundment for animal bite.
      (1)   If an animal has bitten a person, it shall be impounded in the
Animal Shelter or a veterinary hospital or kennel acceptable to the Animal
Control Officer, at the owner's choice and expense, for a period of ten days in
order to determine whether or not the animal has rabies. If the animal dies
during the period, it shall, at the owner's expense, be sent to the proper
authorities to determine whether or not it was rabid.
      (2)   An owner who fails to impound an animal after receiving
notification to do so by an officer of the Animal Control Commission or the
County Health Department commits a Class B ordinance violation. Each day that
the owner fails to impound the animal constitutes a separate violation.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07  ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   Animal care.
      (1)   Every owner of an animal shall see that his animal has proper and
adequate food, water, shelter, protection from the weather, and medical &
grooming care, and that his animal is kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy
manner and is not confined so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in its own
excrement and have shelter at all times while outside.
      (2)   No person shall abandon or dump a vertebrate creature living or
deceased on private or public property. No person shall neglect a vertebrate
creature.
      (3)   Any person who violates this section commits a Class A ordinance
violation.
   (B)   Torture or abuse of animal.
      (1)   No person shall torture, beat, mutilate, cruelly treat, torment,
overload, overwork, or otherwise abuse an animal or cause, instigate or permit
a dogfight, cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals or between
animals and humans.
      (2)   A dog may be chained or tethered only subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   The chain or tether must be no shorter than five times the
length of the dog, as the dog is measured from the tip of its nose to the base
of its tail or 15 feet, whichever is less.
         (b)   In addition to the length prescribed by the preceding division,
if the chain or tether is attached to an overhead trolley, pulley or running
line, the chain or tether must include a length at least equal to the height of
the highest point on the overhead trolley, pulley or running line.
         (c)   The chain or tether shall not weight in excess of one-eighth of
the dog's weight.
         (d)   The chain or tether shall have a swivel at both ends.
         (e)   For the purpose of this chapter, CHAINING or TETHERING shall
mean to restrain  a dog by tying or attaching it to any stationary object by
any means, including but not limited to a chain, rope, cord, leash, pulley or
running line. However, it shall not be construed to mean restraint of a dog by
a human being when the human being is the only thing to which the dog is
attached by a chain, rope, cord or leash.
         (f)   The chaining and tethering restrictions contained herein shall
not apply to dogs while being shown or competing in dog shows, agility trials,
county fairs and like activities. Nor shall they apply to dogs while engaged
with human beings in hunting activities.
      (3)   An Animal Control Officer shall report any person who violates any
of the provisions of I.C. 35-46-3 (Offenses Relating to Animals, as existing
January 1, 2001 or its equivalent should the legislature amend, restate or
recodify said offenses), to the appropriate law enforcement agency.
      (4)   Any person who violates any portion of division (B)(1) above, not
preempted by Indiana law commits a Class A ordinance violation.
      (5)   Any person who violates any portion of division (B)(2) above, not
preempted by Indiana law, shall first be issued a written warning, be informed
of what steps are necessary to correct the violation, and be given sufficient
time to correct it. Any violation of division (B)(2) above, committed after the
violator has received the initial written warning, corrective information and
time for correction, shall be a Class B ordinance violation for the first
offense and a Class A ordinance violation for any such violation committed
after being sited for a Class B violation.
   (C)   Animal Management Fund.
      (1)   All fines, fees, costs and penalties collected pursuant to this
chapter shall be deposited into a dedicated, no-reverting fund to be known as
the Animal Management Fund.
      (2)   Monies in the Fund may be spent only after approval by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (3)   This Fund shall continue until such time as it is rescinded by
action of the Board of Commissioners, in which event, any monies left in the
Fund shall revert to the County General Fund.
   (D)   Procedure for euthanizing animals.
      (1)   An animal brought to the Animal Control Shelter shall be euthanized
if:
         (a)   The animal has been at the shelter in excess of three to five
days;
         (b)   The animal is vicious and presents a serious risk or harm to
other animals, employees, or volunteers or has already caused bodily injury;
         (c)   The animal is injured or ill and proper treatment is beyond the
scope of care of Animal Control. The Animal Control Officer reserves the right
to relinquish and ill or injured animal to a 501c (3) rescue for proper care
upon immediate impoundment and owner shall be responsible for reimbursement if
owner takes the animal back.
      (2)   A certified Animal Control Officer shall euthanize animals in
compliance with this section. Failure of an Animal Control Officer to follow
the outline procedures shall result in disciplinary action by the Animal
Control Board and/or the County Commissioners.
   (E)   Designated area for aggressive animals.
      (1)   If an animal being kept at the Animal Control shelter is
particularly aggressive, posing a risk of harm to other animals, animal control
employees or volunteers, and it is not or has yet to be euthanized, then said
animal shall be kept in a designated area only for aggressive animals.
      (2)   Said designated area shall be clearly marked as an area for
aggressive animals.
      (3)   Animal Control volunteers shall not be permitted to work with the
aggressive animals in any manner.
   (F)   Domestic animals in vehicles.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to leave a domestic animal unattended in a
vehicle when the conditions in that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to
the animal.
      (2)   Any person who violates this section commits a Class A ordinance
violation.
   (G)   Lost, stolen or stray animals.
      (1)   Persons finding a stray animal are to notify the Animal Control
facility within 48 hours. At the discretion of the facility, the animal may be
kept by the finder and a found report left with the facility, to enable the
finder an opportunity to return the animal to its rightful owner.
      (2)   Upon demand, by the Animal Control facility, any found animal will
be taken to an appropriate facility and scanned for a microchip.
      (3)   Persons finding an animal are obligated to comply with all rules
and regulations of this chapter pertaining to humane care and treatment of
animals, while said animal is in their custody awaiting return to its actual
owner.
      (4)   With the exception of the Animal Control Facility or other humane
or breed rescue organizations recognized by the Animal Control Facility, the
finder will be considered the found animal's owner for purposes of this chapter
only after the animal is in the finder's custody for 30 continuous days. The
Animal Control Facility and rescue under the authority of an Animal Control
Officer will have a stray hold of three to five days.  If actual owner is found
and medical treatment was necessary, the owner is required to reimburse the
facility or rescue.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful to hold or harbor an owned animal without the
owner's consent, any person refusing to return animal to owner or animal
control SHALL be prosecuted for property theft.
   (H)   Attempts to poison an animal.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to throw or deposit poisoned meat
or any poison or harmful substance in any street, alley, marketplace, public
place or on any private premises for the purpose of destroying or injuring any
animal.
      (2)   Any person who violates this section commits a Class A ordinance
violation.
   (I)   Interfering with Animal Control Officer.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to interfere with any Animal Control Officer
or other officer empowered to act by law, to take or attempt to take any animal
from the county vehicle used to transport the animal, to take or attempt to
take any animal from the Animal Control Shelter or in any way try to prevent
the officer from discharging their unlawful duties as empowered.
      (2)   A person who violates this section commits a Class B ordinance
violation.
   (J)   Offensive use of an animal.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person willfully to deposit a live or
dead animal upon public or private premises not owned by that person, or
willfully to throw a live or dead animal out of a moving vehicle, or aid or
abet another person in doing so.
      (2)   A person (s) who violates this section commits a Class A ordinance
violation.
   (K)   Livestock restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any livestock
animal in the city/North Vernon and Vernon limits unless permitted by city/
council/town board of North Vernon or Vernon, livestock shall be permitted in
the zoned county areas unless specified in other homeowners associations and or
bylaws written by landlords or gates communities, unless permitted in writing.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any (poultry or
fowl) that exceeds the amount of 15 and have no more than two roosters and any
person that owns or keeps poultry or fowl shall provide a dry/clean
environment, shelter from weathers, protection from predators, nesting boxes,
adequate food water.
      (3)   An owner or person having custody or control of small fowl (i.e.
chicken, etc.) shall provide a minimum lot area of 12 square feet per small
fowl and for large fowl (i.e. emu, etc.) shall provide a minimum lot area of
500 square feet per large fowl.
      (4)   An owner or person having custody or control of small four-legged
livestock (i.e. goats, sheep, pigs, etc.) shall provide a minimum lot area of
20 square feet per small four-legged livestock and for large four-legged
livestock (i.e. horses and cows) shall provide a minimum lot area of two acres
per large four-legged livestock.
      (5)   Any person who violates this section commits a Class B ordinance
violation.
   (L)   Additional restrictions on dangerous, neglected or nuisance animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has been found in violation
of §§
90.04,
90.05,
90.06 or this section to own or keep more than two animals in the county or to
own or keep any animal that has not been spayed or neutered by a veterinarian.
      (2)   A person who violates this section commits a Class B ordinance
violation.
      (3)   A person who is under additional restrictions that commits
subsequent violations, shall be subject to forfeiture of their animal to the
enforcement authority and may be prohibited by a court from owning or keeping
any animal within the county; both incorporated and unincorporated.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08  KENNELS AND COMMERCIAL DOG BREEDING.
   (A)   Licenses.
      (1)   A license is required to operate as a commercial kennel. Each
kennel operated shall be considered a separate enterprise and each enterprise
shall have a kennel license.
      (2)   A license shall be issued when the applicant complies with all laws
and regulations pertaining to the issuance of licenses and pays the required
kennel licensing fee. No license shall be issued to any kennel unless it is in
compliance with all applicable zoning requirements.
      (3)   A license is valid for 12 months from the date of issuance and may
be renewed in accordance with this chapter.
      (4)   The license shall be prominently displayed on the premises of the
licensed kennel.
      (5)   The application for a kennel license must contain a statement that
the applicant agrees to comply with standards set forth herein, agrees to allow
inspections by Animal Control Officers of the animals and premises, and whether
or not the applicant has ever been found to have committed any offense related
to animals.
      (6)   No license to operate a kennel shall be issued to anyone who has
been convicted of cruelty to animals.
      (7)   Licenses issued on the basis of false information supplied by the
applicant shall be revoked and operation of the subject kennel shall be
terminated upon revocation of the license.
      (8)   The Animal Control Officer, or such other agency or person it may
designate, shall be the agency to issue, or cause to be issued, licenses,
maintain records and conduct and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (9)   All notices to the public, including but not limited to, classified
advertisements, fliers, posters and all other media, of animals for sale shall
contain the license number of the kennel license required and issued under this
chapter.
      (10)   All records of sale shall show the kennel license number of the
seller.
      (11)   Kennel fees shall be paid through the county Animal Control
Office, which must approve the establishment and operation of kennels pursuant
to county ordinance. Payment shall be tendered to the Animal Control Officer at
the time application is made to the Animal Control Office for establishment or
operation of a kennel, and upon its approval to establish or operate, the
Animal Control Officer shall deposit the kennel fees in the Animal Management
Fund. If establishment or operation of a kennel is not approved by the Animal
Control Office, the tendered payment shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Fees.
   Annual fees for kennels and pets shall be as follows:
 
Number of Dogs Fee
6 - 9          $50
10 - 25        $125
26 - 50        $250
51 - 100       $500
101 or more    $1,000
 
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The Jennings County Animal Shelter shall be exempt from all kennel
fees.
      (2)   Veterinary hospitals shall be exempt from all kennel license fees
unless engaged in commercial boarding, excluding that incident to
hospitalization, or breeding.
      (3)   Groomers shall be exempt from kennel license fees unless engaged in
commercial boarding or breeding.
   (D)   Standards for facilities.
      (1)   For the regulation of kennels, the county hereby adopts the United
States Department of Agriculture standards for the humane handling, care and
treatment of dogs. Copies of those standards may be obtained from the Animal
Control Officer.
      (2)   To be eligible for a permit, a kennel must meet the standards set
forth by the United States Department of Agriculture for the humane handling,
care and treatment of dogs.
      (3)   Any violation of this section constitutes a Class B ordinance
violation, and each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation. Violations may also result in suspension or revocation of the
license to operate a kennel.
   (E)   Inspection of animals and premises.
      (1)   As a condition of obtaining or keeping a permit to operate a
kennel, the licensee shall allow any Animal Control Officer, without prior
notice, to inspect all facilities and animals therein at any time during the
business hours of the kennel.
      (2)   The licensee, his agents and employees, shall render such
reasonable assistance to the Animal Control Office engaged in such inspection
as may be required to enable the officer to perform his or her duties. The
licensee shall furnish the facilities and assistance necessary to restrain
domestic animals in order that the inspection may be accomplished. The licensee
shall furnish the facilities necessary to allow the officer to conduct any
necessary tests and fill out all papers and forms required in the discharge of
his or her duties.
      (3)   Refusal to permit such an inspection or interference with such an
inspection shall result in the immediate revocation of all licenses to operate
a kennel held by the licensee.
   (F)   Selling/transfer of animals.
      (1)   It is the duty of the seller to ensure that all animals sold or
otherwise transferred are healthy, parasite, free, and current with regard to
vaccinations at the time of sale or transfer. No animal with disease, injury,
or lacking required vaccinations will be sold or transferred without full
disclosure to the buyer.
      (2)   No dog under the age of eight weeks shall be sold or transferred,
unless sold with its dam.
      (3)   Records of all sales or adoptions of animals shall be maintained by
the person selling or allowing the adoption for a period of two years. Records
shall include the date of the transaction, species and breed, date of birth,
sex, color and description of the animal, the name and address and telephone
number of the purchaser or adopter. Records shall be available to any Animal
Control Officer upon his or her request.
      (4)   A violation of this section constitutes a Class B ordinance
violation. A violation of this section may also result in the loss of kennel
license for an indefinite period of time.
   (G)   Commercial dog breeding.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply:
         ANIMAL RESCUE OPERATION. A person or organization:
            1.   That accepts within one year the following that are available
for adoption for human companionship as pets or as companion animals in
permanent adoptive homes and that are maintained in a private residential
dwelling;
               a.   More than 12 dogs; or
               b.   More than nine dogs and more than three un-weaned litters
of puppies;
            2.   That uses a system of private residential dwellings as foster
homes for the dogs.
The term does not include a person or organization that breeds dogs.
         COMMERCIAL DOG BREEDER. A person who keeps, harbors or maintains
within the county, 20 or more un-altered female dogs that are at least 12
months of age.
         HOBBY BREEDER. A person who maintains fewer than 20 un-altered female
dogs that are at least 12 months of age.
         UN-ALTERED. Capable of bearing puppies.
         VETERINARIAN. An individual licensed as a veterinarian by the State of
Indiana.
      (2)   No person shall keep, harbor or maintain within the county more
than 20 un-altered female dogs that are at least 12 months of age.
      (3)   Any person keeping, harboring or maintaining within the county 20
unaltered female dogs that are least 12 months of age shall comply with all
applicable requirements of the I.C. Title 15, Article 21 and with all
applicable requirements contained in the ordinances of the county, including
but not limited to this chapter and all planning and zoning ordinances.
      (4)   The section shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   The County Animal Shelter;
         (b)   The County Humane Society;
         (c)   Animal rescue operations;
         (d)   Hobby breeders;
         (e)   Veterinarians and veterinary hospitals for boarding incident to
treatment or hospitalization.
      (5)   Notwithstanding their exemption from the application of I.C. Title
15, Article 21, this chapter shall apply to the following:
         (a)   A person who breeds at least 75% of the person's dogs as sport
dogs for hunting purposes;
         (b)   A person who breeds at least 75% of the person's dogs as service
dogs or as dogs for use by the police or the armed forces.
      (6)   This section may be enforced by an Animal Control Officer or any
law enforcement officer, who may issue to any person violating any provision of
this chapter a notice of ordinance violation. If the person has not paid the
fine and all associated expenses of the violation within two weeks of receiving
such notice, the Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer may refer
the violation to the  County Attorney for further action, which may include
prosecution of the violation in court.
      (7)   Violation of any of the provisions of this section shall constitute
a Class A ordinance violation as defined in this chapter, which may be enforced
by imposition of a civil penalty or fine of $500 for each violation.
      (8)   Violation of any provision of this section is hereby declared a
public nuisance, and the county may maintain an action in court to abate said
nuisance.
      (9)   In addition, a person who violates this section may be subject to
any other penalties, judgements and liabilities authorized by an ordinance of
the county, a statute of the State of Indiana, or both.
      (10)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for
payment of all costs and expenses associated with its enforcement, including
but not limited to court costs, any expenses of investigation, attorney fees,
any expenses incurred in the seizure, impoundment and care of any animal, and
the cost of any veterinary or medical treatment.
      (11)   All fines, fees, costs and penalties collected pursuant to this
section shall be deposited into the Animal Management Fund.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09  APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person who is fined or issued a citation in violation of this
chapter shall have the option of appealing said fine or citation, in the
following manner:
      (1)   A person must appear at the next County Commissioner's meeting in
order to appeal the fine or citation to the County Commissioners. The County
Commissioners meet on the second and fourth Thursday of every month.
      (2)   After a person appeals to the County Commissioners, it will then be
left to the discretion of the County Commissioners to determine whether the
fine or citation issued shall be upheld or overturned.
      (3)   If a person who appeals their fine or citation to the County
Commissioners wishes to appeal to the decision of the County Commissioners,
they must then appeal to the County Superior Court on the next date that animal
control hearings are held. A person should contact the County Attorney to
determine when the next day animal control hearings will be held.
   (B)   Regardless of whether a person wishes to appeal to the County
Commissioners, they must still appear at the court date listed on their fine or
citation. At said court date, a person may inform the court and County Attorney
that they wish to appeal the fine or citation to the County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)  
§ 90.10  COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   A person who violates this chapter shall be responsible for payment of all
costs and expenses associated with its enforcement, including but not limited
to court costs, any expenses of investigation, attorney fees, any expenses
incurred in the seizure, impoundment and care of any animal, and the cost of
any veterinary or medical treatment.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 90.11  VENUE AND CHOICE OF LAW.
   (A)   Proper venue for the enforcement of this chapter shall be in a court
of competent jurisdiction of the county.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall be construed using the laws of
the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 90.12  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply throughout the county; provided, however,
that absent an agreement duly entered between the county and any city, town or
village within the county which by law has been given the express authority to
regulate and license animals, this chapter shall not apply within the corporate
limits of any such city, town or village.
   (B)   Should any city, town or village within the county which by law has
been given the express authority to regulate and license animals determine that
it wishes this chapter to apply within its corporate limits and enter into an
agreement with the county so providing, this chapter shall then apply and be
enforced within those corporate limits.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for violations.
      (1)   The following schedule of penalties shall apply for violations of
this chapter:
         (a)   Class A violation: Fine of up to $500.
         (b)   Class B violation: Fine of up to $150.
         (c)   Class C violation: Fine of up to $75.
      (2)   In addition to the forgoing fines, a person who violates this
chapter shall be subject to any other penalties; judgements and liabilities
authorized by an ordinance of the county, a statute of the State of Indiana, or
both.
   (B)   Penalties for lmpoundment of domestic animals.
      (1)   Day one at facility:
         (a)   $20.
         (b)   After hours:  $40.
      (2)   Every day after:
         (a)   $5 a day for care.
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing penalties for impoundment, a person
who violates this chapter shall be required to pay any ordinance violations
before any reclaim process.
   (C)   Penalties for lmpoundment of livestock animals.
      (1)   Day one at facility:
         (a)   $100.
         (b)   After hours: $150.
      (2)   Every day after:
         (a)   $10 a day for care.
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing penalties for impoundment, a person
who violates this chapter shall be required to pay any ordinance violations
before any reclaim process.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-19-2019)
CHAPTER 91:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
91.01   Muscatatuck Park; hours
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  MUSCATATUCK PARK; HOURS.
   (A)   Muscatatuck Park is open from one hour prior to sunrise to one hour
after sunset.
   (B)   Only campers at Muscatatuck Park and authorized permit holders are
permitted in the park after hours.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 6-27-2013)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violators of park hours as set forth in §
91.01 will be asked to leave the premises, escorted off the premises if non-
compliant with request to leave and/or subject to a fine as set by the Board
and/or Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 6-27-2013)
CHAPTER 92:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   County refuse containers; public use
   
92.02   Nuisances
   92.03   Sanitary living conditions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  COUNTY REFUSE CONTAINERS; PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   Public use of the refuse containers provided by the county shall at
all times be in an orderly and reasonable manner.
   (B)   Said public use shall be further regulated as follows.
      (1)   No person shall deposit any trash or refuse which is not bundled up
in plastic trash bags, or in a similar material and manner, so as to prevent
leakage and spillage of the deposited refuse.
      (2)   All trash and refuse shall be deposited in the provided refuse
containers, and no person shall deposit trash or refuse upon the grounds
adjacent to the said containers.
      (3)   No person shall remove trash or refuse that has been deposited in
the provided refuse containers. Scavenging of deposited refuse is prohibited.
      (4)   No person shall set fire to any county refuse container or the
deposited trash or refuse therein.
   (C)   No person, other than residents of the county, shall use the public
refuse containers provided by the county, for the deposit of trash.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-6-1982; Ord. 6, passed 2-16-1988)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  NUISANCES.
   Business, commercial manufacturing and agricultural purposes shall be exempt
from the restrictions set forth in this section.
   (A)   Electrical disturbance. No use shall cause electrical disturbance
adversely affecting radios, televisions or other equipment in the vicinity.
   (B)   Noise.
      (1)   No use shall produce noise in such a manner as to be objectionable
because of volume frequency, intermittence, beat shrillness or vibration.
      (2)   Said noise shall be muffled or otherwise controlled so as not to
become detrimental; provided, however, public safety sirens and related
apparatus used solely for public purposes shall be exempt from this standard.
   (C)   Vibration. No use shall cause vibrations or concussions detectable
beyond property lines without the aid of instruments.
   (D)   Odor. No use shall emit across the property lines malodorous gas or
matter in such quantity as to be readily detectable at any point along the lot
lines.
   (E)   Air pollution. No use shall discharge across property lines fly ash,
dust, smoke, vapors, noxious, toxic or corrosive matter, or other air
pollutants in such concentration as to be detrimental to health, animals,
vegetation or property, or conflict with public air quality standards.
   (F)   Heat and glare. No use shall produce heat or glare in such a manner as
to be a nuisance or create a hazard perceptible from any point beyond property
lines.
   (G)   Water pollution. No use shall produce erosion or other pollutants in
such quantity as to be detrimental to adjacent properties or conflict with
public water quality standards.
   (H)   Waste matter. No use shall amass within the property lines or
discharge beyond the property lines any waste matter, whether liquid or solid,
in conflict with applicable public health, safety and welfare standards and
regulations.
   (I)   Burning trash, refuse, and leaves. The burning of trash, refuse,
leaves and other unwanted or unusable objects and materials shall be prohibited
at all times.
   (J)   Enforcement. This section and all provisions herein shall be enforced
in order to promote health and safety of the residents of Jennings County. If
any of the above restrictions are done in a manner that do not adversely affect
or put at risk the health and safety of the residents of Jennings County, then
no penalty shall be enforced. Health and safety shall be determined at the
discretion of Jennings County law enforcement.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-27-2020; Ord. 2020-8, passed 7-9-2020)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  SANITARY LIVING CONDITIONS.
   (A)   A person shall not institute, permit, or maintain any conditions that
may transmit, generate, or promote disease.
   (B)   A health officer, upon receiving a complaint asserting the existence
of unlawful conditions described in division (A) within the officer's
jurisdiction, shall document the complaint as provided in division (D). Upon
verifying the information contained in the complaint, the health officer shall
order the abatement of those conditions. The order must:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Specify the conditions that may transmit disease; and
      (3)   Name the shortest reasonable time for abatement.
   (C)   If a person refuses or neglects to obey an order issued under this
section, the attorney representing the county of the health jurisdiction where
the offense occurs shall, upon receiving the information from the health
officer, institute proceedings in the courts for enforcement. An order may be
enforced by injunction. If the action concerning public health is a criminal
offense, a law enforcement authority with jurisdiction over the place where the
offense occurred shall be notified.
   (D)   A complaint made under division (B) must include adequate details to
allow the health officer to verify the existence of the unlawful conditions
that are the subject of the complaint. A health officer shall provide a copy of
a complaint upon request to the person who is the subject of the complaint.
   (E)   A person who provides false information upon which a health officer
relies in issuing an order under this section commits a Class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2020-17, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)    Specific penalties for violation of §
92.02 shall be:
      (1)   First violation: $75;
      (2)   Second violation: $150;
      (3)   Subsequent violation: $150.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this Code.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-6-1982; Ord. 6, passed 2-16-1988; Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-27-
2020; Ord. 2020-8, passed 7-9-2020)
CHAPTER 93:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
93.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
93.10   Exemptions
   
93.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 93.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq.,
as amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 93.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON.  Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that
is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION.  The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT.  A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE.  An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04 through
93.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING.  Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.  One or more individuals who have not attained the age of
18 years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody
of such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY.  Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in the definition of FAMILIAL STATUS above.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP. 
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or addictions to
a controlled substance as defined in U.S.C. § 802 of Title 21; nor does the
term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-10(b), (c))
   PERSON.  Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT.  Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 93.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
93.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1  and
in §
93.04 of this chapter shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by
division (B) below and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §
93.03(B) and §
93.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for
the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any
person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or
national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light  switches,  electrical  outlets, thermostats and
other environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements  in  bathrooms  such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as AANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (A)(8)(c)3.c. above of this section.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected
by §§
93.03,
93.04,
93.05 or
93.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined a
sum as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time, or imprisoned not
more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be subject to
imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.09  EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to Federal Register, Volume 77, Number 23, published on February 3,
2012, the definition of FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the
actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of
its members.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 93.10  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et. seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin, nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program) or;
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 93.11  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below of this section shall be vested in the Chief Elected
Official of the county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the county, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief Elected Official of
the Town of Americana, Indiana, shall refer all said complaints to the
Commission as provided for under division (A) above of this section to said
Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as
provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the county, or the Chief Elected
Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TATTOO PARLORS AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
      
111.   RETAIL FOOD AND BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
      
112.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110:  TATTOO PARLORS AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
110.01   Operation generally
   
110.02   Hand-washing facilities
   
110.03   Light sources
   
110.04   Disinfection and sterilization equipment
   
110.05   Photo identification
   
110.06   Proof of vaccination
   
110.07   License and license fees
   
110.08   Closure of facilities
   
110.09   Attorneys’ fees; cost of enforcement
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  OPERATION GENERALLY.
   Tattoo parlors and/or body piercing facilities shall be operated in
accordance with this chapter and 410 I.A.C. 1-5, and/or any subsequent
provisions and/or as the same is amended hereafter.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 7-13-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  HAND-WASHING FACILITIES.
   All tattoo parlors and/or body piercing facilities shall have hand-washing
facilities positioned in each tattooing and/or body piercing station on their
premises. Each hand-washing facility shall have a hand-washing sink supplied
with hot and cold running water from an approved water source, soap and single
use towels. Said hand-washing facilities shall be separate from the public
restroom facilities.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 7-13-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03  LIGHT SOURCES.
   All tattoo parlors and/or body piercing facilities shall be well-ventilated
and shall be equipped with an artificial light source equivalent to at least 20
foot-candles three feet off the floor, except that an artificial light source
equivalent to at least 100 foot-candles shall be provided at the level where
tattooing and/or body piercing is being performed and where instruments and
sharp tools are assembled.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 7-13-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04  DISINFECTION AND STERILIZATION EQUIPMENT.
   All tattoo parlor and/or body piercing facility operators shall store and
maintain disinfection and sterilization equipment in an area that is not
accessible to the public.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 7-13-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05  PHOTO IDENTIFICATION.
   All tattoo parlor and/or body piercing facility operators shall maintain a
copy of the photo identification displaying the age of each patron for a period
of at least two years after the patron receives tattoo and/or body piercing
services.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 7-13-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  PROOF OF VACCINATION.
   All tattoo parlor and/or body piercing facility operators shall require all
tattoo artists and/or body piercers to display proof of having received the
Hepatitis B vaccination or proof of having declined said vaccination by signing
a waiver stating that he or she declined said vaccination.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 7-13-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07  LICENSE AND LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   No individual shall operate a tattoo parlor and/or body piercing
facility without first obtaining a license to operate a tattoo parlor and/or
body piercing facility. Said license shall be displayed in a conspicuous manner
in the facility. Said license shall become valid June 1 and expire May 31 of
the following year. Said license shall be renewed annually.
   (B)   The license fee shall be as set by the Board and/or Council from time
to time. The license fee for a tattoo parlor and/or body piercing facility not
open in the previous year, and filing for a license after December, shall be as
set by the Board and/or Council from time to time.
   (C)   An additional fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time
shall be imposed for license renewals submitted after June 1.
   (D)   Tattoo parlors and/or body piercing facilities that open for business
without first obtaining a license are subject to a doubling of the annual
licensing fee.
   (E)   Temporary or mobile tattoo parlors and/or body piercing facilities
shall be prohibited from obtaining a license to operate a tattoo parlor and/or
body piercing facility.
   (F)   No license to operate a tattoo parlor and/or body piercing facility
issued under this section may be transferred to another individual, location or
tattoo parlor and/or body piercing facility. No refund shall be granted for any
unexpired period of the license.
   (G)   In the event that a tattoo parlor and/or body piercing facility is
cited for a violation of a specific section of 410 I.A.C. 1-5 and/or this
chapter, or any subsequent ordinance, or the same as amended hereafter, the
tattoo parlor and/or body piercing facility that is cited shall be subject to a
fine as set forth in §
110.99.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 7-13-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08  CLOSURE OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Tattoo parlors and/or body piercing facilities may be closed if any of
the following occur:
      (1)   Proper hand-washing sink not positioned in each tattooing and/or
body piercing station on their premises; or
      (2)   Conditions are present in the facility which present an imminent
threat to public health or aid in the transmission of communicable disease.
   (B)   The Health Officer may post a sign notifying the public that the
tattoo parlor and/or body piercing facility has been closed. It is a violation
of this chapter for any individual other than the Health Officer to remove the
sign.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 7-13-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09  ATTORNEYS’ FEES; COST OF ENFORCEMENT.
   Any and all attorneys fees and/or other costs expended by the County Health
Department regarding the enforcement of this chapter, the collection of fees
and/or fines relative thereto and/or conducting administrative hearings, in
court or otherwise, against violators shall be collectible by the County Health
Department in court, if necessary.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
110.07(E) shall be subject to a fine as set by the Board and/or Council from
time to time.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
110.07(G) shall be subject to a fine as set by the Board and/or Council from
time to time.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 7-13-2009)
CHAPTER 111:  RETAIL FOOD AND BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Appeals
   
111.03   Conflict of interest
Permits and Fees
   
111.15   Generally
   
111.16   Permit period
   
111.17   Permit content
   
111.18   Application; content
   
111.19   Qualification
   
111.20   Plan requirements
   
111.21   Responsibilities of operator
   
111.22   Permit fees
Inspections and Violations
   
111.35   Generally
   
111.36   Preliminary plan review and initial inspection
   
111.37   Temporary food establishment
   
111.38   Performance- and risk-based inspections
   
111.39   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice
   
111.40   Inspection reports
   
111.41   Timely correction of critical violations
   
111.42   Refusal to sign acknowledgment
   
111.43   Public information
Compliance and Enforcement
   
111.55   Certification of food handler requirements
   
111.56   Application denial
   
111.57   Permit suspension
   
111.58   Ceasing operation; contacting County Health Department
   
111.59   Resuming operations
   
111.60   Outstanding fees
   
111.61   Enforcement options
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT.  As defined in 410 I.A.C. 5-15.5 means an
operator occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.  (Derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-1-1 (b)(2)) A situation in
which the private financial interest of a county official, county official’s
spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or unemancipated child, may
influence the county official’s judgment in the performance of a public duty.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.  The local health department in the county or
authorized representative having jurisdiction over a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   COUNTY OFFICIAL.  Any official of the county.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HCCP) PLAN.  As defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24, a written document that delineates the formal procedures for
following the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point principals developed by
the National Advisory Committee On Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The Health Officer having jurisdiction in the county or his
or her duly authorized representative.
   HEARING OFFICER.  An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a hearing officer in proceedings. The Hearing Officer is not the
Health Officer or any other employee of the County Health Department. (Examples
of Hearing Officer could be the County Health Board, a subcommittee of the
County Health Board, a subcommittee of health professionals from the community
or other non-bias third party appointed by the Health Board.)
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD.  Any circumstance or situation, which in the opinion
of the Health Officer, presents a serious health risk to the public.
   INSPECTION REPORT.  The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to the operator.
   OPERATOR.  The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER.  A County Health Department action of particular applicability that
determines the legal rights, duties, privileges, immunities or other legal
interests of one or more specific persons. The term includes a permit.
   PERMIT.  The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON.  An association, a corporation, an individual, partnership or other
legal entity, government or governmental subdivision or agency.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. 
      (1)   An operation that:
         (a)   Stores, prepares, packages, serves or otherwise provides food
for human consumption, such as:
            1.   A restaurant;
            2.   Satellite or catered feeding locations;
            3.   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly
to a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people;
            4.   A market;
            5.   A grocery store;
            6.   A convenience store;
            7.   A vending location;
            8.   A conveyance used to transport people;
            9.   An institution; or
            10.   A food bank.
         (b)   That relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or
indirectly through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carriers.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   An element of the operation, such as a transportation vehicle or
a central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority.
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off the
premises, and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.  A retail food establishment that operates for
a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event
or celebration.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 111.02  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by orders issued under the enforcement options of
§
111.61(A), (B) or (C) shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a
hearing officer by filing a written request therefor with the Health Officer
(Secretary or the County Board of Health see I.C. 16-20-1-10). The written
request must be mailed or hand delivered to the Health Officer 200 East Brown
Street Vernon, Indiana 47282, and must be received within 15 days after such
final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the hearing officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days’
written notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be
measured pursuant to the rules of the court of the jurisdiction. A shorter
period of time may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon.
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person’s mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the Health Officer.
   (D)   The hearing officer establishes the rules of procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The hearing officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final order or determination of this matter in writing.
   (F)   The order completes the administrative appeals procedure.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 111.03  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No county official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner that is or
could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
111.99
PERMITS AND FEES
§ 111.15  GENERALLY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
the county, without first obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer. The
valid permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   (B)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410 I.A.C.
7-15.5 and / or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 will be entitled to obtain and keep a permit.
   (C)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
operated or to be operated by any person.
   (D)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
   (E)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment
permitted by the County Health Department shall be considered registered.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16  PERMIT PERIOD.
   (A)   A permit for a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment shall be issued for a term beginning January 1, and/or when it
commences operation, and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall be
applied for by the person and /or operator annually.
   (B)   A permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for the term of
one continuous period of operation.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 111.17  PERMIT CONTENT.
   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit is
granted;
   (B)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
   (C)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
   (D)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the County Health
Officer.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 111.18  APPLICATION; CONTENT.
   (A)   A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail
food establishment and/or temporary food establishment shall submit to the
County Health Department a written application for a permit on a form provided
by the County Health Department.
   (B)   The application shall include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address and location of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment is owned by an
association, corporation, individual, partnership or other legal entity;
      (3)   A statement specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment:
         (a)   If not permanent, is mobile and/or temporary; and
         (b)   The operation includes one or more of the following:
            1.   Prepares, offers for sale or serves potentially hazardous
food:
               a.   Only to order upon a consumer’s request;
               b.   In advance in quantities based on projected consumer demand
and discards food that is not sold or served at an approved frequency;
               c.   Using time, rather than temperature, as the public health
control; or
               d.   Prepares acidified foods.
            2.   Prepares potentially hazardous food in advance using a food
preparation method that involves two or more steps which may include combining
potentially hazardous ingredients; cooking; cooling; reheating; hot or cold
holding; freezing or thawing;
            3.   Prepares food as specified under division (B)(3)(b)2. above
for delivery to and consumption at a location off the premises of the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment where it is prepared;
            4.   Prepares food as specified under division (B)(3)(b)2. above
for service to a highly susceptible population;
            5.   Prepares only food that is not potentially hazardous; and/or
            6.   Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prepackaged food
that is not potentially hazardous.
      (4)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (5)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person specified under division
(B)(4) above of this section such as the zone, district or regional supervisor;
      (6)   The names, titles and addresses of:
         (a) The persons comprising the legal ownership as specified under
division (B)(2) above including the owners and operators; and
         (b)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership;
      (7)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the applicant will:
            1.   Comply with this chapter; and
            2.   Allow the County Health Department access to the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment and records; and
      (8)   Other information required by the County Health Department.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19  QUALIFICATION.
   To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
   (A)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
   (B)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment, retail
food establishment and/or temporary food establishment and provide required
information; and
   (D)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20  PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment shall submit to the
County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for review
and approval before:
      (1)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment; or
      (3)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast establishment and/
or retail food establishment or food operation if the County Health Department
determines that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure compliance
with this section.
   (B)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment shall include the type of operation, type of
food preparation and the menu.
   (C)   The plans and specifications must be deemed satisfactory and approved
by the County Health Department before a permit can be issued.
   (D)   A pre-operational inspection to insure that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment is built or remodeled in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21  RESPONSIBILITIES OF OPERATOR.
   Upon acceptance of the permit granted by the County Health Department, the
operator, in order to retain a permit, shall:
   (A)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all the laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
State Department of Health;
   (B)   Immediately discontinue any area of operations notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
   (C)   Allow representatives of the County Health Department access to the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at all
reasonable times;
   (D)   Comply with directives of the County Health Department, including time
frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices, orders,
warnings and other directives issued by the County Health Department in regard
to the operator’s bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment or in response to community emergencies;
   (E)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department;
   (F)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the County Health Department; and
   (G)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment that is conspicuous to consumers.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22  PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Payment of permit fees required. It shall be unlawful for any person
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment in the county, who has not paid the permit fee
required to be paid for the operation of such establishment.
      (1)   The fee shall be paid for a term beginning January 1, and when it
commences operations and expiring December 31 of the same year and shall be
applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
      (2)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a
bed and breakfast establishment, a retail food establishment and/or a temporary
food establishment shall be set by the County Health Department, as provided by
the statues of the state.
   (B)   Fees schedule. Permit fees shall be as set by the Board and/or Council
from time to time for retail establishments, temporary units, initial plan
review/preliminary inspections, temporary food establishments, farmer’s market
establishments and home-based vendor.
      (1)   A receipt for the payment of such fees shall be provided by the
County Health Department.
      (2)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment operated or to be operated by any person or business entity.
   (C)   Exemption from permit fees. An organization that is exempt from the
state gross income tax under I.C. Title 6 and offers food for sale to the final
consumer at an event held for the benefit of the organization is exempt from
the payment of fees. This exemption only applies to organization(s) that meet
the criteria addressed in I.C. 16-42-5-4. The Health Officer shall be provided,
upon request, proof of an organization’s tax exemption, although a permit is
still required.
   (D)   Non-profit organizations. All organizations /non-profit organizations
that are opened for more than 30 days of operation per year will be charged the
minimum annual fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time.
   (E)   Late fees. A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the
operation of the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment or the late fee for failure to renew a permit after the
expiration of the permit to operate bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment shall be assessed a fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time each.
   (F)   Nontransferable; nonrefundable. The payment of fees under this chapter
is not transferable or refundable.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005; Ord. passed 7-13-2009; Ord. 2011-05, passed 11-
28-2011)  Penalty, see §
111.99
INSPECTIONS AND VIOLATIONS
§ 111.35  GENERALLY.
   (A)   The County Health Department shall inspect a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment at least every six months.
   (B)   The County Health Department may increase the interval between
inspections beyond six months if:
      (1)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is fully operating under an approved and validated hazard
analysis critical control point (HACCP) plan(s);
      (2)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a
written risk-based inspection schedule that is being uniformly applied
throughout the jurisdiction; and
      (3)   The County Health Department contacts the operator to determine
that the nature of the food operation has not changed.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005; Ord. 2011-05, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 111.36  PRELIMINARY PLAN REVIEW AND INITIAL INSPECTION.
   Prior to opening a new bed and breakfast establishment or retail food
establishment or upon transfer of ownership of an existing establishment, the
owner or prospective owner shall submit a plan review application to the County
Health Department for its review. Said plan shall provide the information
requested by the Department. The Health Department shall review the application
or conduct an initial inspection to determine its compliance with health codes
and this chapter before issuing permits required by this chapter.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005; Ord. 2011-05, passed 11-28-2011)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37  TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
   The County Health Department shall periodically inspect throughout its
permit period a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells or serves
unpackaged, potentially hazardous food and may inspect a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells or serves unpackaged, non-potentially
hazardous food that:
   (A)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as hand washing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, ware washing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal and insect and rodent control; or
   (B)   Has untrained food employees.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005; Ord. 2011-05, passed 11-28-2011)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.38  PERFORMANCE- AND RISK-BASED INSPECTIONS.
   Within the parameters specified in the above inspection sections of this
chapter, the County Health Department shall prioritize, and conduct more
frequent inspections based upon its assessment of a bed and breakfast
establishment’s and/or retail food establishment’s history of compliance with
this chapter and the bed and breakfast establishment’s and/or retail food
establishment’s potential as a vector of food borne illness by evaluating:
   (A)   Past performance, for violations that are critical or non-critical;
   (B)   Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations that are non-
critical;
   (C)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be valid:
   (D)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored or served;
   (E)   The type of operation including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation and service;
   (F)   The number of people served; and
   (G)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005; Ord. 2011-05, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 111.39  ACCESS ALLOWED AT REASONABLE TIMES AFTER DUE NOTICE.
   (A)   After the County Health Department presents official credentials and
provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection, the
operator shall allow the County Health Department to determine if the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment is in compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the
establishment, allowing inspection and providing information and records
specified in this chapter. The County Health Department is entitled to the
information and records, during the bed and breakfast establishment’s and/or
retail food establishment’s hours of operation and other reasonable times.
   (B)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
   (C)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to the law.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005; Ord. 2011-05, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 111.40  INSPECTION REPORTS.
   At the conclusion of the inspection, the County Health Department shall
provide a copy of the completed inspection report and the notice to correct
violations to the operator or to the person-in-charge.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005; Ord. 2011-05, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 111.41  TIMELY CORRECTION OF CRITICAL VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Except as specified in division (B) below, an operator shall at the
time of inspection correct a critical violation and implement corrective
actions for a HACCP plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical
limit.
   (B)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the County Health Department may
agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator
to correct code violations of HACCP plan deviations.
   (C)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end or the specified
period of time, the County Health Department shall verify correction of the
violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the County Health Department’s records.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005; Ord. 2011-05, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 111.42  REFUSAL TO SIGN ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
   (A)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
operator’s obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified.
   (B)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will be noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the County Health Department historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/
or temporary food establishment.
   (C)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of the
County Health Department inspection by acknowledgment of receipt.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005; Ord. 2011-05, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 111.43  PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   Except as specified in § 176 (Trade Secrets) of 410 I.A.C. 7-20, the County
Health Department shall treat the inspection report as a public document and
shall make it available for disclosure to a person who requests it as provided
in law.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005; Ord. 2011-05, passed 11-28-2011)
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 111.55  CERTIFICATION OF FOOD HANDLER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A corporation, or local health department may not impose any
registration, certification or licensing requirements on food handling or food
handlers.
   (B)   After December 31, 2004 at least one food handler at a food
establishment must be a certified food handler. A food handler’s certification
must be recognized by the Conference for Food Protection or an equivalent
nationally recognized certification examination as determined by the Health
Department.
   (C)   A food establishment shall have a least one certified food handler
responsible for all periods of the food establishment’s operation. However, a
certified food handler need not be present at the food establishment during all
hours of operation. It shall be the responsibility of the certified food
handler to provide the certificate, letter or document for verification of
passing the examination.
   (D)   A food establishment that begins operation or changes ownership shall
comply with division  (B) above not later than six months after beginning
operation or changing ownership.
   (E)   If a food establishment does not have a certified food handler because
the certified food handler terminates employment with the food establishment,
the owner or operator of the food establishment shall comply with division (B)
above not later than three months after the termination date of the previous
certified food handler.
   (F)   If more than one food establishment operated by the same individual is
located on the same property or on contiguous properties, only one certified
food handler is required for the food establishments.
   (G)   The certified food handler requirements does not apply to a food
establishment when the food establishment’s food handling activities are
limited solely to one or more of the following:
      (1)   Heating or serving precooked hot dog or sausage products, popcorn,
nachos, pretzels or frozen pizza;
      (2)   Preparing or serving a continental breakfast such as rolls, coffee,
juice, milk and cold cereal;
      (3)   Preparing or serving nonalcoholic beverages or ice;
      (4)   Grinding coffee beans;
      (5)   Packaged foods that are not potentially hazardous foods in
accordance with the rules adopted by the executive board;
      (6)   Heating when it is the only step for a bakery product; or
      (7)   Providing prepackaged food in its original package.
   (H)   The certified food handler requirement does not apply to the following
institutions:
      (1)   Hospitals licensed under I.C. 16-21;
      (2)   Health facilities licensed under I.C. 16-28;
      (3)   Housing with services establishment that are required to file
disclosure statements under I.C. Title 16; or
      (4)   Continuing care retirement communities required to file disclosure
statements under I.C. 23-2-4.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions see 410 I.A.C. 7-22
§ 111.56  APPLICATION DENIAL.
   If an application for a plan review and/or permit to operate a bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment is denied, the County Health Department shall provide the
applicant with a notice that includes:
   (A)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
   (B)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for the
application and/or permit; and
   (C)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal and the process and time
frames for appeal that are provided in law.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 111.57  PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   The County Health Department may suspend a permit to operate a bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment if it determines through inspection, or examination of employee,
food, records or other means as specified in this chapter that an imminent
health hazard exists.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 111.58  CEASING OPERATION; CONTACTING COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment shall immediately discontinue
operations and notify the County Health Department if an imminent health hazard
exist because of an emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of
electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic
materials, onset of an apparent foodborne illness outbreak, gross insanitary
occurrence or condition or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
   (B)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.59  RESUMING OPERATIONS.
   If a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment has discontinued operations for the reasons stated
above or otherwise according to law, the operator must obtain approval from the
County Health Department before resuming operations.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.60  OUTSTANDING FEES.
   Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a permit may not be
issued.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.61  ENFORCEMENT OPTIONS.
   The following are options available to the County Health Department for
consideration.
   (A)   Establish a process for the issuing of tickets based on violation of
the retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment
requirements.
   (B)   Conduct administrative proceeding for suspension and/or revocation of
the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary
food establishment permit in front of a Hearing Officer.
   (C)   The County Health Officer may issue an order to abate based on a
condition that may transmit, generate or promote disease. Failure on the part
of the operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement of the
order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the County
Health Department Attorney.
   (D)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation,
request the County Health Department Attorney to institute a proceeding in the
courts for the enforcement of the ordinance violation.
   (E)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense, request
the County Health Department Attorney to institute a proceeding in the courts
for enforcement.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   The County Health Department may commence an action under I.C. 4-21.5-3-8 to
levy civil penalties against a person who:
   (A)   Fails to comply with I.C. 16-42-5, 16-42-1, 16-42-2 or 410 I.A.C. 7-24
or 410 I.A.C. 7-21; or
   (B)   Interferes with or obstructs the County Health Department or its
designated agent in the performance of duties pursuant to I.C. 16-42-5, 16-42-
1, 16-42-2, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 or 410 I.A.C. 7-21.
      (1)   A civil penalty in an amount in the appropriate range specified in
subsection (d),(e), or (f) or any combination thereof, may be sought for each
day of each violation.
      (2)   (a)   In determining the seriousness of the violation and the
specific amount of the civil penalty to be sought for each violation, the
County Health Department will consider, but is not limited, to the following:
            1.   The potential for harm or imminent threat to the public
health;
            2.   The extent of deviation from statutory or regulatory
requirements;
            3.   Degree of willfulness or negligence; or
            4.   History of noncompliance.
         (b)   The absence of direct harm will not result in assessment of a
lower penalty for a violation.
      (3)   For a food establishment as defined in I.C. 16-42-5, unless
adjusted in accordance with divisions (B)(7) through (B)(10) below of this
section, a penalty shall be assessed, as set by the Board and/or Council from
time to time, for each violation.
      (4)   For a retail food establishment as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24,
unless adjusted in accordance with divisions (B)(7) through (B)(10) below of
this section, a penalty shall be assessed, as set by the Board and/or Council
from time to time, for each violation.
      (5)   For a wholesale food establishment a defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-21,
unless adjusted in accordance with divisions (B)(7) through (B)(10) below, a
penalty shall be assessed, as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time. for each violation.
      (6)   Each individual penalty assessed under division (B)(3), (B)(4) or
(B)(5) above or any combination thereof, will be multiplied by the number of
days the particular violation has been documented by the County Health
Department, or its authorized representative.
      (7)   Penalties for violations documented in two consecutive inspection
by the County Health Department, or its authorized representative, shall be
assessed on the basis that the violations have remained uncorrected over the
period of time between the two inspections.
      (8)   The County Health Department, or its authorized representative, may
reduce the penalty determined in accordance with division (B)(3), (B)(4) or (B)
(5) above or any combination thereof, if the person found in violation has
requested re-inspection and has produced substantive evidence that violations
have been corrected. In that case the penalty amount shall be assessed only for
the period between initial discovery of the violation and the date of receipt
of the request for re-inspection.
      (9)   Penalties for all violations documented in an inspection or series
of inspection at an establishment will be totaled and sought in one cause of
action.
      (10)   After filing an action pursuant to I.C. 4-21.5, and in attempt to
resolve violations of I.C. 16-42-5, 410 I.A.C. 7-24, or 410 I.A.C. 7-21 without
resort to a hearing, the Jennings County Health Department, or its authorized
representative, may negotiate and enter into agreed orders. An agreed order may
suspend all or part of the civil penalty calculated in accordance with this
rule.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-14-2005)
CHAPTER 112:  SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Purpose and intent
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Establishment and classification of businesses regulated; measurement
   
112.04   Location of sexually-oriented businesses
   
112.05   Existing sexually-oriented businesses; regulations
   
112.06   Exemptions
   
112.07   Immunity from prosecution
Permits and Fees
   
112.20   Purpose and intent
   
112.21   Permit required
   
112.22   Investigation and application
   
112.23   Permit issuance
   
112.24   Annual permit fee
   
112.25   Inspection
   
112.26   Permit expiration
   
112.27   Permit suspension
   
112.28   Permit revocation
   
112.29   Judicial review of permit denial, suspension or revocation
   
112.30   Permit transfer
Conditions, Regulations and Violations
   
112.45   Minors; prohibitions
   
112.46   Advertising
   
112.47   Hours of operation
   
112.48   Nudity at sexually-oriented businesses not offering alcohol
   
112.49   Operation without a valid permit
   
112.50   Sexual devices; distribution prohibited
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sexually-Oriented Business Zoning District regulations, see §§
154.140 through
154.165
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
    It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate sexually-oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the county and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent any deleterious location and concentration of sexually-oriented
businesses within the county, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse
secondary effects from such sexually-oriented businesses. The provisions of
this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually-
oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually-oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually-oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
(Ord. 99-04, passed  - - )
§ 112.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE.  A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually-oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business
after the adoption of this chapter;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, if not a sexually-oriented
business, to any of the sexually-oriented businesses defined in this chapter;
      (3)   The addition of a sexually-oriented business deemed in this chapter
to any other existing sexually-oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such sexually-oriented business.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of
the female breast.
   OPERATOR.  The owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator or person
in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
   PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES.  Any premises that requires a license and/or
permit and that is classified as a sexually-oriented business.
   PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a permit and/or license
to operate a sexually-oriented business has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or
license.
   PERSON.  An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association or other legal entity.
   PUBLIC BUILDING.  Any building owned, leased or held by the United States,
the state, the county, the city, any special district, school district or any
other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States, which
building is used for governmental purposes.
   PUBLIC PARK or RECREATION AREA.  Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas or
similar public land within the county which is under the control, operation or
management of any public entity.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION.  Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE.  A single-family, duplex, townhouse, multiple-
family or mobile park or subdivision and campground as defined in the then
current planning and zoning ordinance.
   SCHOOL.  Any public or private educational facility including but not
limited to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges and universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not
include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally
as a SCHOOL.
   SEMI-NUDE.  A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areolae of the female breast, as well as portions
of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
novelty shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, massage parlor, sexual encounter establishment,
escort agency or semi-nude model studio. Those businesses defined as follows.
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE.  An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors
or similar machines, or other image producing machines, for viewing by five or
fewer persons each, are regularly used to show films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are characterized
by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.  A
commercial establishment which has a significant or substantial portion of its
stock-in-trade or derives 25% or more of its revenues to the sale, rental for
any form of consideration, of any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others;
         (c)   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that
do not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials depicting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, and
still be categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO
STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes is
offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified
materials which depict or describe specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities; and/or
         (d)   Regardless of the percentage of revenues from adult materials
defined herein, any business which devotes any portion of its interior business
space or advertising, for any form of consideration or viewing of any of the
adult materials defined herein shall be considered to be an ADULT BOOKSTORE,
ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE as defined by and governed by this
chapter.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features:
         (a)   Persons who appear semi-nude or in a state of semi-nudity; and/
or
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   ADULT MOTEL.  A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment
which:
         (a)   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration,
which provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas and which advertises the availability
of this sexually-oriented type of material by means of a sign visible from the
public right-of-way, or by means of any off-premises advertising including but
not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio or
television;
         (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than
ten hours; or
         (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the sleeping room for a
time period of less than ten hours.
      (5)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
for any form of consideration.
      (6)   ADULT THEATER.  A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of seminudity or live performances which
are characterized by exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified
sexual activities.
      (7)   ESCORT.  A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or
offers to act as a companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees
or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for
another person.
      (8)   ESCORT AGENCY.  A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
      (9)   MASSAGE PARLOR.  Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or
magnetic treatments or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body
which occurs as a part of or in connection with specified sexual activities, or
where any person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related
thereto, exposes his or her specified anatomical areas. The definition of
SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES shall not include the practice of massage in any
licensed hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician,
surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath or certified massage therapist, nor by any
nurse or technician working under the supervision of a licensed chiropractor,
osteopath or certified massage therapist, nor by trainers for any amateur,
semiprofessional or professional athlete or athletic team or school athletic
program.
      (10)   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  Any place where a person who regularly
appears in a state of seminudity is provided for money or any form of
consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted, photographed
or similarly depicted by other persons.
      (11)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.  A business or commercial
establishment, that as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any
form of consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate,
associate or consort for the purposes of specified sexual activities when one
or more of the persons is semi-nude. The definition of SEXUALLY-ORIENTED
BUSINESSES shall not include an establishment where a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist or similar professional person licensed by the state
engages in medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areolae; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence; or
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (4) above of this definition.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Increase in the
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 15%, as the floor areas exist
on December 7, 1998.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )
§ 112.03  ESTABLISHMENT AND CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES REGULATED;
MEASUREMENT.
   The establishment of a sexually-oriented business shall be permitted only in
the appropriately designated areas and shall be subject to the following
restrictions:
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any of the
following sexually-oriented businesses, as defined in §
112.02, within 1,000 feet of another such business or within 1,000 feet of any
religious institution, school, boys’ club, girls’ club or similar existing
youth organization, or public park or public building, or within 1,000 feet of
any property zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes and are
classified as follows:
      (1)   Adult arcade;
      (2)   Adult bookstore;
      (3)   Adult novelty store or adult video store;
      (4)   Adult cabaret;
      (5)   Adult motel;
      (6)   Adult motion picture theater;
      (7)   Adult theater;
      (8)   Massage parlor;
      (9)   Sexual encounter establishment;
      (10)   Escort agency; or
      (11)   Nude model studio.
   (B)   As regarding division (A) above, distance between any two sexually-
oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures, from the closest exterior structural wall of each
business. The distance between any sexually-oriented business and any religious
institution, public or private elementary or secondary school, boys’ club,
girls’ club or similar existing youth organization, or public park or public
building or any properties zoned for residential use or used for residential
purposes shall also be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or objects from the nearest portion of the building or
structure used as part of the premises where the sexually-oriented business is
conducted, to the nearest property line of the premises of a religious
institution, public or private elementary or secondary school, boys’ club,
girls’ club or similar existing youth organization, or public park or public
building or any properties zoned for residential use or used for residential
purposes.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  LOCATION OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   This chapter shall designate those areas in which sexually-oriented
businesses are permitted and this chapter shall govern their location and
operation.
   (B)   In addition, any sexually-oriented business not already in operation
at the time of adoption of this chapter shall be subject to the following
restrictions.
      (1)   The person commits an infraction, if he or she operates or causes
to be operated a sexually-oriented business except as provided by this chapter.
      (2)   The person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually-oriented business within 1,000 feet of:
         (a)   Any religious institution;
         (b)   Any school;
         (c)   The boundary of any residential district;
         (d)   A public park adjacent to any residential district;
         (e)   A property line of a lot devoted to residential use; or
         (f)   A boys’ club, girls’ club, or similar existing youth
organization.
      (3)   A person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually-oriented business within 1,000 feet of another such
business, which will include any adult arcade, adult book store, adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
massage parlor or any sexual encounter establishment.
      (4)   A person commits an infraction if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment or maintenance of more than one sexually-oriented
business within the same building, structure or portion thereof, or causes the
substantial enlargement of any sexually-oriented business in any building,
structure or portion thereof containing another sexually-oriented business.
      (5)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
         (a)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college,
junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (c)   In a structure:
            1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure
and no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
            2.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must
enroll at least three days in advance of the class; and
            3.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any
one time.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05  EXISTING SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A sexually-oriented business already in operation at the time of
adoption of this chapter is exempt from this chapter, and must comply only with
those laws established in the state for the ownership and operation of
sexually-oriented businesses, establishments which serve alcoholic beverages,
or any other law of general application. If a sexually-oriented business
already in operation at the time of adoption of this chapter should ever change
locations, or add to its present location so as to change the facade or
frontage of the building from which it operated at the time of adoption of this
chapter or to increase the size of the building it currently inhabits, it will
be subject to this chapter upon the opening of its new location and will be
required to submit to the permit process as would any other sexually-oriented
business.
   (B)   A sexually-oriented business lawfully operating as conforming use is
not rendered a non-conforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of a sexually-oriented business permit and/or license, of a church,
public or private elementary or secondary school, public park, public building,
residential district or residential lot within 1,000 feet of the sexually-
oriented business. This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid permit
and/or license and does not apply when an application for a permit and/or
license is submitted after a permit and/or license has expired or has been
revoked.
   (C)   Any establishment subject to the provision of this section shall apply
for the permit provided for by §
112.22 within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   Upon the adoption of this chapter, the following establishment shall
be the only exemption from the provisions of this chapter: None.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this chapter that
a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or:
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has a sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter that an
employee of a sexually-oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee’s bona fide use of a restroom, or during the employees bona fide use a
dressing room which is accessible only to employees.
   (C)   Schools and libraries are exempt from the regulations of this chapter.
   (D)   This chapter is not applicable to any community theater that shows
films rated G, PG or R by the motion picture industry and where no more than 5%
of its revenues are derived from films not covered by these ratings.
   (E)   It is defense to this chapter that a sexually-oriented business is
lawfully in operation prior to the date of enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION.
   The issuing authorities and their designees, and all other departments and
agencies and all other officers, agents and employees, charged with enforcement
of state and local laws and codes shall be immune from prosecution, civil or
criminal, for reasonable, good faith trespass upon a sexually-oriented business
while acting within the scope of authority conferred by this chapter.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )
PERMITS AND FEES
§ 112.20  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually-oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of
the county, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent
deleterious effects of sexually-oriented businesses within the county. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually-oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually-
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually-oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent or effect of this chapter to in any
way condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene or harmful material to
minors.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No sexually-oriented business not already established at the time of
enactment of this chapter shall be permitted to operate without a valid
sexually-oriented business permit issued by the issuing authority for the
particular type of business. It shall be unlawful and a person commits an
infraction if he or she operates or causes to be operated a non-exempt
sexually-oriented business without said permit.
   (B)   The Executive and Legislative Body of the governmental entity having
jurisdiction over the proposed location of the sexually-oriented business
(hereinafter referred to collectively as the “issuing authority,” are jointly
responsible for granting, denying, revoking, renewing, suspending and canceling
sexually-oriented business permits for proposed or existing sexually-oriented
businesses. The County Area Plan Commission, or its designee, is responsible
for ascertaining whether a proposed sexually-oriented business for which a
permit is being applied for complies with all locational requirements of §§
112.03(A),
112.04 and
112.05 of this chapter, all applicable zoning laws and/or regulations now in
effect or as amended or enacted subsequent to the effective date of this
chapter.
      (1)   The police agency with primary jurisdiction over the proposed
location of the sexually-oriented business (hereinafter referred to as “police
agency”) is responsible for providing information on whether an applicant has
been convicted of a specified criminal act during the time period set forth.
      (2)   The police agency is responsible for inspecting a proposed,
permitted or nonpermitted sexually-oriented business in order to ascertain
whether it is in compliance with applicable statutes and ordinances.
   (C)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
issuing authority. Any person desiring to operate a sexually-oriented business
shall file with the issuing authority and the County Area Plan Commission an
original and two copies of a sworn permit application on the standard
application form supplied by the issuing authority or designee.
   (D)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is any of the following, the corporation shall
state its complete name, the date of its incorporation, evidence that the
corporation is in good standing under the laws of the state, the names and
capacity of all officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the name of
the registered corporate agent and the address of the registered office for
service of process:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he or she is 18 years of
age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any; or
         (c)   A corporation.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually-oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state:
         (a)   The sexually-oriented business’s fictitious name; and
         (b)   Submit the required state registration documents;
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to this section has, within the two- or five-year period as specified
in §
112.23 immediately preceding the date of the application, been convicted of a
specified criminal act, and, if so, the specified criminal act involved, the
date of conviction and the place of conviction;
      (4)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals pursuant to
this section and or licensees of this chapter has had a previous permit under
this chapter or other similar sexually-oriented business ordinances from
another city or county denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually-oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, and whether the applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant
to this section has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is permitted under this chapter
whose permit has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually-oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
this section holds any other permits and/or licenses under this chapter or
other similar sexually-oriented business ordinance from another city or county
and, if so, the names and locations of such other permitted businesses;
      (6)   The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing;
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually-oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address and telephone number(s), if
any;
      (8)   The applicant’s mailing addresses and residential address;
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (10)   The applicant’s driver’s permit number, Social Security number and
or his or her state or federally issued tax identification number;
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a state registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any established existing uses
regulated by this chapter within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified;
the property lines of any established religious institution/synagogue, school
or public park or recreation area within 1,000 feet of the property to be
certified; and the property lines of any residentially zoned area or
residential property within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified. For
purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if
it is in existence at the time an application is submitted;
      (13)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is
an individual, he or she must sign the application for a permit as applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a corporation is listed
as owner of a sexually-oriented business or as the entity which wishes to
operate such a business, each individual having a 10% or greater interest in
the corporation must sign the application for a permit as applicant; and
      (14)   If a person wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business which
shall exhibit on the premises films, video cassettes or other video
reproductions which depict specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, then said person shall comply with the application requirements stated
at §
112.46 et. seq.
   (E)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event that said information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with said continuing duty within 30 days
from the date of such change, by supplementing the application on file with the
issuing authority or its designee, shall be grounds for suspension of a permit.
   (F)   In the event that the issuing authority or its designee determines or
learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed the application
for a proposed sexually-oriented business, he or she shall promptly notify the
applicant of such fact and allow the applicant ten days to properly complete
the application. (The time period for granting or denying a permit shall be
stayed during the period in which the applicant is allowed an opportunity to
properly complete the application.)
   (G)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
health, fire and building codes and laws.
   (H)   The applicant shall be required to pay a nonrefundable application fee
as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time at the time of filing an
application under this section.
   (I)   Prior to obtaining any permit or license to operate any sexually-
oriented business defined in this chapter, and as part of any application for a
permit under this section, the applicant shall obtain from the County Area Plan
Commission or its designee a certification that the proposed location of such
business complies with the locational requirements of §§
112.04 and
112.05 of this chapter.
   (J)   The fact that a person possesses other types of permits or licenses
does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a sexually-
oriented business permit.
   (K)   By applying for a permit under this chapter the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the exercise
by the County Area Plan Commission and the issuing authorities and all other
county and municipal authorities charged with enforcing the laws, ordinances
and codes applicable under this chapter.
   (L)   The applicant shall be required to provide the County Area Plan
Commission and the issuing authority with the names of any and all employees
who are required to be licensed under state law pursuant to §
112.45. The applicant also agrees to allow a representative of the County Area
Plan Commission and the issuing authority to conduct an inspection of the
names, ages and dates of birth of all employees who are working at any
reasonable time while the establishment is open. This shall be a continuing
requirement even after a permit is granted or renewed.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22  INVESTIGATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the County Area
Plan Commission and issuing authority and upon payment of the nonrefundable
application fee, the application shall immediately be stamped as received and a
copy shall be sent to the police agency and any other agencies responsible for
the enforcement of health, fire, building codes and laws. Each department or
agency shall promptly conduct an investigation of the applicant, application
and the proposed sexually-oriented business in accordance with its
responsibilities under law and as set forth in this chapter. Said investigation
shall be completed within 20 days of the receipt of the application. At the
conclusion of its investigation, each department or agency shall indicate on
its copy of the application its approval or disapproval of the application,
date it, sign it and in the event it disapproves, state the reasons therefor.
The police agency shall only be required to certify the NCIC records request
check mentioned at §
112.23. The police agencies shall not be required to approve or disapprove
applications.
   (B)   A department or agency shall disapprove an application if it finds
that the proposed sexually-oriented business will be in violation of any
provision of any statute, code, ordinance, regulation or other law in effect in
the jurisdiction. After its indication of approval or disapproval, each
department or agency shall immediately return the copy of the application to
the County Area Plan Commission and issuing authority.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )
§ 112.23  PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Grant or denial within 30 days. The issuing authority shall grant or
deny an application for a permit within 30 days from the date of its proper
filing. Upon the expiration of the thirtieth day, unless the applicant requests
and is granted a reasonable extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted
to begin operating the business for which the permit was sought, unless the
issuing authority notifies the applicant of a denial of the application and
states the reasons for that denial.
   (B)   Grant of application for permit.
      (1)   The application shall be granted unless one or more of the criteria
set forth in division (C) below is present.
      (2)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person(s) to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the
sexually-oriented business. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place
at or near the entrance to the sexually-oriented business so that it can be
read easily at any time.
   (C)   Denial of application for permit.
      (1)   The issuing authority shall deny the application for any of the
following reasons.
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   An applicant or applicant’s spouse is overdue on his or her
payment of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against him or her or
imposed in relation to a sexually-oriented business.
         (c)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit under this chapter or whose permit has been revoked within the preceding
12 months.
         (d)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
section or permit application or has knowingly falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form.
         (e)   The premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business have
not been approved as being in compliance with health, fire and/or building
codes by the department or agency responsible for enforcement thereof.
         (f)   The application or permit fees required by this chapter have not
been paid.
         (g)   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter including, but not
limited to the zoning locational requirements for a sexually-oriented business.
         (h)   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance or court order.
         (i)   The applicant has a permit under this chapter which has been
suspended or revoked.
         (j)   An applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal” act
for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of an infraction offense for the “specified criminal” acts which
are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes connected with
another sexually-oriented business including but not limited to distribution of
obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution, pandering or tax
violations;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a felony offense for the “specified criminal” acts which are
sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes connected with
another sexually-oriented business including, but not limited to, distribution
of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution, pandering or tax
violations;
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
convictions are of two or more misdemeanor offenses for “specified criminal”
acts which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually-oriented business including, but not limited
to, distribution of obscenity or materials harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering or tax violations; offenses occurring within any 24-month period;
            4.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the disqualification of the applicant; or
            5.   An applicant who has been convicted of the above described
“specified criminal acts” may qualify for a sexually-oriented business permit
only when the time period required above in division (C)(1)(j) of this section
has elapsed.
         (k)   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ, an employee who
does not have a valid license as required by this chapter.
      (2)   If the application is denied the applicant shall be notified of the
denial and state the reason(s) for the denial. The denied applicant shall have
an opportunity for appeal of the decision as set forth in §
112.29.
      (3)   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of 12 months from the date of denial of a previous application for a
permit at the location, and there has not been an intervening change in the
circumstances which could reasonably be expired to lead to a different decision
regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be denied.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )
§ 112.24  ANNUAL PERMIT FEE.
   The annual fee for a sexually-oriented business permit shall be as set by
the Board and/or Council from time to time.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.25  INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the County
Area Plan Commission, the County Health Department and the Fire Department to
inspect the premises of a sexually-oriented business for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually-oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
or his or her agent or employee, commits an infraction if he or she refuses to
permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time that it is occupied
or open for business.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26  PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
112.23. For renewals, filing of the original survey (if applicable) shall be
sufficient. Application or renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.27  PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   The issuing authority or its designee shall suspend a permit for a period
not to exceed 30 days if it is determined that a permittee, or his or her
designee or employee, has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
   (B)   Been charged with or convicted of being under the influence of
alcoholic beverages while working in the sexually-oriented business premises;
   (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of sexually-oriented business premises
as authorized by this chapter;
   (D)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually-oriented
business premises;
   (E)   Operated the sexually-oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health or zoning statute, code, ordinance or regulation, whether federal,
state or local, said determination being based on investigation by the
division, department or agency charged with enforcing said rules or laws. In
the event of such statute, code, ordinance or regulation violation, the issuing
authority or its designee shall promptly notify the permittee of the violation
and shall allow the permittee a seven-day period in which to correct the
violation. If the permittee fails to correct the violation before the
expiration of the seven-day period, the issuing authority or its designee,
shall forthwith suspend the permit and shall notify the permittee of the
suspension;
   (F)   Engaged in permit transfer contrary to §
112.30. In the event that the issuing authority or its designee suspends a
permit on the ground that a permittee engaged in a permit transfer contrary to
§
112.30, the issuing authority or its designee shall forthwith notify the
permittee of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect until the
applicable section of this chapter has been satisfied;
   (G)   Operated the sexually-oriented business in violation of the hours
stipulated by Indiana law which pertain to the sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages. The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance or regulation in question has been corrected; or
   (H)   Knowingly employs a person who does not have a valid license as
required in §
112.45.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.28  PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The issuing authority or its designee shall revoke a permit if a cause
of suspension in §
112.27 of this chapter occurs and the permit has been suspended for any reason
within the preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The issuing authority or its designee shall revoke a permit upon
determining that:
      (1)   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process which was intended to enhance the
applicant’s opportunity for obtaining a permit;
      (2)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances in or on the premises;
      (3)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on
the premises;
      (4)   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually-oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee’s permit was suspended;
      (5)   A permittee has been convicted of a “specified criminal act” for
which the time period required in §
112.22 of this chapter has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted premises,
constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been obtained,
and the person or persons were employees of the sexually-oriented business at
the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the permit;
      (7)   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually-oriented business;
      (8)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises; or
      (9)   A permittee has been operating more than one sexually-oriented
business under a single roof, without proper permit, within the terminal or
zoning jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (C)   When the issuing authority or its designee revokes a permit, the
revocation shall continue for one year and the permittee shall not be issued a
sexually-oriented business permit for one year from the date revocation became
effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the issuing authority or its designee
finds that the basis for revocation under this section has been corrected, the
applicant shall be granted a permit if at least 90 days have elapsed since the
date revocation became effective. If the permit was revoked under this section,
an applicant may not be granted another permit until the number of years
required under this section have elapsed.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.29  JUDICIAL REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
prompt review of such administrative action through the legislative body of the
issuing authority. If the denial, suspension or revocation is affirmed upon
review, the administrative action shall be promptly reviewed by the Circuit
Court.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )
§ 112.30  PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate a sexually-oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another person
unless and until such other person satisfies the following requirements:
      (1)   Obtains an amendment to the permit from the issuing authority or
its designee, which provides that he or she is now the permittee, which
amendment may be obtained only if he or she has completed and properly filed an
application with the issuing authority or its designee, setting forth the
information called for under §
112.23 of this chapter in the application; and
      (2)   Pays the transfer fee of 20% of the annual permit fee set by this
chapter.
   (C)   No permit may be transferred when the issuing authority or its
designee has notified the permittee that suspension or revocation proceedings
have been or will be brought against the permittee.
   (D)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another location.
   (E)   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void and the permit shall be
deemed revoked.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
CONDITIONS, REGULATIONS AND VIOLATIONS
§ 112.45  MINORS; PROHIBITIONS.
   A person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes to be
operated a sexually-oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for said business under this chapter and knowingly or with
reasonable cause to know, permit, suffer or allow:
   (A)   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age to the business premises
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (B)   A person under 18 years of age to remain at the business premises
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (C)   A person under 18 years of age to purchase goods or services at the
business premises without the specific consent of a parent or guardian; or
   (D)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business premises
as an employee.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )
§ 112.46  ADVERTISING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and advertises the presentation of any activity prohibited by any applicable
state statute or local ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and displays or otherwise exhibits the materials and/or performances at such
sexually-oriented business in any advertising which is visible outside the
premises. This prohibition shall not extend to advertising of the existence on
location of such sexually-oriented business.
   (C)   The permittee shall not allow any portion of the interior premises
germane to adult entertainment to be visible from outside the premises.
   (D)   All off-street parking areas and premises entries of the sexually-
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot-candle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkways. This required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually-
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premises.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section of the chapter shall relieve the
operator(s) of a sexually-oriented business from complying with the
requirements of this chapter as it may be amended from time to time, or any
subsequently enacted ordinance or regulations.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.47  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter
and allows such business to remain open for business, or to permit any employee
to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale,
provide a service or solicit a service, between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 9:00
a.m. of any particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if, working as
an employee of a sexually-oriented business, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued for said business under this chapter, said employee
engages in a performance, solicits a performance, makes a sale, solicits a
sale, provides a service or solicits a service, except during lawful hours of
operation as provided by the State Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.48  NUDITY AT SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES NOT OFFERING ALCOHOL.
   (A)   The United States Supreme Court decision in Barnes v Glen Theatre,
Inc. 501 U.S., 111 S.Ct. 2456, (June 21, 1991) which upheld the rights of
cities to prohibit live public exposure of a person’s private parts,
specifically applies to sexually-oriented businesses (regardless of whether or
not a permit has been issued to said businesses under this chapter), including
said businesses where no alcoholic beverages are sold, served or consumed at
the premises.
   (B)   Public nudity is prohibited within the county and the jurisdictions of
all municipalities enacting this chapter located therein, including any
sexually-oriented business. Any sexually-oriented business which is found in
violation of this section shall have its permit suspended pursuant to the
provisions of §
112.27.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.49  OPERATION WITHOUT A VALID PERMIT.
   (A)   In addition to the criminal provisions found at other sections of this
chapter, the following additional criminal provisions shall also apply to
sexually-oriented businesses.
   (B)   If a sexually-oriented business is subject to this chapter, it shall
be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes
to be operated a sexually-oriented business, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued for said business under this chapter, and said person
knows or should know that:
      (1)   The business does not have a sexually-oriented business permit
under this chapter for any applicable classification;
      (2)   The business has a permit which is under suspension;
      (3)   The business has a permit which has been revoked; or
      (4)   The business has a permit which has expired.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.50  SEXUAL DEVICES; DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for anyone to distribute, for commercial purposes, sell
or offer for sale any device, instrument or paraphernalia designated or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
   (B)   Such devices, instruments or paraphernalia include, but are not
limited to, phallic shaped vibrators, dildoes, muzzles, whips, chains, bather
restraints, racks, nonmedical enema kits, body piercing implements (excluding
earrings or other decorative jewelry) or other tools of sadomasochistic abuse.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business subject to this chapter without having a valid permit due to location
restrictions, is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for
the criminal violation. Such violation shall be punishable by a fine as set by
the Board and/or Council from time to time and/or 30 days imprisonment, and if
any injunction must be sought, attorneys fees and costs will be assessed at the
discretion of the court against the sexually-oriented business.
   (B)   A violation of §
112.50 is an infraction punishable by a fine as set by the Board and/or Council
from time to time for each day that the violator is found to be in violation.
   (C)   In addition to whatever penalties are applicable under the State Penal
Code, if any person fails or refuses to obey or comply with or violates any of
the provisions of this chapter, such person upon conviction of such offense,
shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be punished by a fine as set by the
Board and/or Council from time to time, in the discretion of the court. Each
violation or noncompliance shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
Further, each day of continued violation or noncompliance shall be considered
as a separate offense.
      (1)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent or restrict the issuing
authority from talking such other lawful action in any court of competent
jurisdiction as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation or
noncompliance. Such other lawful actions shall include, but shall not be
limited to, an equitable action for injunctive relief or an action at law for
damages.
      (2)   All remedies and penalties provided for in division (C) of this
section shall be cumulative and independently available to the issuing
authority and the issuing authority shall be authorized to pursue any and all
remedies set forth in division (C) of this section to the full extent allowed
by law.
(Ord. 99-04, passed - - )
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Sex/violent offender registration fees
   
130.02   Littering
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Firearm possession in county courthouse, see §
34.01
§ 130.01  SEX/VIOLENT OFFENDER REGISTRATION FEES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Office is hereby authorized to charge a sum as
set by the Board and/or Council from time to time per year for the registration
of sex or violent offenders and a sum as set by the Board and/or Council from
time to time for each time a sex or violent offender registers an address
change with the County Sheriff’s Office.
   (B)   The county now establishes a county Sex and Violent Offender
Administration Fund and the County Sheriff’s Office shall deposit all funds
collected for sex or violent offender registration fees and address change fees
for sex or violent offenders into this account. The County Auditor shall
monthly transfer 10% of any fees collected to the State Treasurer for deposit
in the State Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund under I.C. 11-8-8-21.
   (C)   The County Council may appropriate money from the County Sex and
Violent Offender Administration Fund to defray the expense of administering or
ensuring compliance with the laws concerning the state sex and violent offender
registry.
(Council Ord. 2012-09, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 130.02  LITTERING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LITTER.  Any human-made or human-used waste, which, if deposited within
the county otherwise than in a litter receptacle, tends to create a danger to
public health, safety and welfare or to impair the environment of the people of
the county. LITTER shall include, but is not limited to, garbage, trash,
refuse, debris, grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, paper products,
glass, metal, plastic or paper containers, motor vehicle parts, furniture,
carcasses of dead animals or any other waste material of an unsightly,
unsanitary, nauseous or offensive nature.
      PRIVATE PREMISES.  All property, including, but not limited to, vacant
land or any land upon which is located one or more buildings or other structure
designed or used for residential, commercial, business, industrial,
institutional or religious purposes, together with any yard, grounds, walk,
driveway, fence, porch or other structure or improvement appurtenant to said
land, except any public place.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any and all streets, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, alley
or other public way, and any and all public parks, lakes, spaces, grounds or
buildings within the corporate limits of said county or owned by said county.
   (B)   Littering in public places. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, cause or allow to be thrown or disposed of in any similar matter, any
litter along or on any public place, except in authorized litter receptacles
maintained on such public place or public property.
   (C)   Maintenance of private property fee of litter. The owner or person in
control of any private premises shall at all times maintain such private
premises free of litter that is capable of being carried or deposited by the
elements upon any public place or other private premises.
   (D)   Littering from vehicles.
      (1)   No person, while the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public or private premises.
      (2)   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partially loaded truck
or other vehicle within the county unless the vehicle is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent any part of its load, contents or litter from being blown
upon any public place or private premises.
   (E)   Tampering with receptacles. No person shall upset or tamper with a
public or private receptacle designed or used for the deposit of litter.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 11-24-2003)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any persons, firm or corporation found violating any of the provisions
of §
130.02 shall be guilty of a violation, and upon being found guilty the violator
shall be punished for the first offense by a fine as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time; for the second offense by a fine as set by the Board
and/or Council from time to time; and for a third and each subsequence offense
by a fine as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time and a sentence
of not more than 90 days.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 11-24-2003)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS AND ROADWAYS
      
152.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Plan Commission fee schedule
   
150.02   Mobile home moving permit
   
150.03   Fire Prevention Code; smoke detectors
   
150.04   Uniform address numbering system
County Building Code
   
150.15   Title
   
150.16   Purpose
   
150.17   Authority
   
150.18   Definitions
   
150.19   Scope
   
150.20   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.21   Application for permits
   
150.22   Permit required and issuance
   
150.23   Other ordinances
   
150.24   Fees
   
150.25   Review of application
   
150.26   Inspections
   
150.27   Inspection assistance by township and district fire departments
   
150.28   Entry
   
150.29   Stop order
   
150.30   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.31   Workmanship
   
150.32   Violations
   
150.33   Right of appeal
   
150.34   Remedies
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.45   Established; title
   
150.46   Definitions
   
150.47   Statutes adopted
   
150.48   Compliance
   
150.49   Nuisance declared; abatement required
   
150.50   Enforcement authority
   
150.51   Standards for repair, reconstruction and the like
   
150.52   Hearing authority designated
   
150.53   Unsafe Building Fund
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  PLAN COMMISSION FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   A building permit shall be obtained by the owner or contractor prior
to construction of any building, structure, dwelling or any extension of an
existing building from the Area Plan Commission of the county. Agricultural
buildings are exempt, if they are being used for agricultural purposes only.
Reference I.C. 22-12-1 for definition of “agricultural purpose.”
   (B)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer, before issuing a permit, shall require
that the applicant to submit a set of detailed plans and specifications, a copy
of which shall be retained in the office. No charges from such approved plans
or specifications shall be made until a revised copy thereof has been submitted
to and approved by the Zoning Enforcement Officer and Building Inspector of the
county.
   (C)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall refuse to issue a permit in any
case where the construction or work proposed is in violation of any statute of
the state or any provision of the unified zoning ordinance of the county. No
permit shall be required for any outside or inside planning, roofing, siding or
other cosmetic repair or maintenance where the building is not altered or
extended.
   (D)   These fees are to be put in the County General Fund, in accordance
with I.C. 36-7-4-801 for the operation of the Area Plan Commission Office. Such
fees are as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time.
(Ord. 06, 2008, passed 6-23-2008; Ord. passed 8-11-2008)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  MOBILE HOME MOVING PERMIT.
   (A)   A fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time shall be
charged by the County Treasurer for each mobile home moving permit or transfer
of title permit issued by the Treasurer.
   (B)   The County Treasurer shall post the fee set forth in this section in a
prominent place within the Treasurer’s office where the fee schedule is readily
accessible to the public.
   (C)   Such fee shall be paid at, or prior to, the time of the request in
cash or check or money order made payable to the County Treasurer. A sum, as
set by the Board and/or Council from time to time, of each said fee collected
shall be deposited in the County General Fund.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 150.03  FIRE PREVENTION CODE; SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APARTMENT HOUSE.  Any building or portion thereof which contains three or
more dwellings and includes residential condominiums.
      DWELLING.  Any building or portion thereof which contains not more than
two units.
      DWELLING UNIT.  Any building or portion thereof which contains living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation,
for not more than one family.
      LANDLORD.  The owner, lessor or sublessor of the rental dwelling unit or
guest room in the building of which it is a part.
      LODGING HOUSE.  Any building or portion thereof containing not more than
five guest rooms where rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise.
      MOBILE HOME RENTAL.  Any mobile home or trailer occupied by or offered
for occupancy to an individual as a residence on a rental basis.
      SMOKE DETECTOR.  A device which detects particles or products or
combustion other than heat, approved by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., or
Factory Mutual. The smoke detector device shall be equipped with a test button.
The smoke detector device may be battery powered with a minimum nine volt.
      TENANT.  A person entitled to occupy a dwelling unit on a rental or lease
basis.
   (B)   General requirements. Smoke detectors are required in certain
structures.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit, dwelling, apartment house or lodging house
shall contain an approved and properly functioning smoke detector installed in
accordance with division (C) below.
      (2)   The owner of each dwelling unit, apartment house or lodging house
shall install smoke detectors as required by this section within 90 days from
the effective date of this section.
   (C)   Location; installation. Smoke detectors shall be mounted on the
ceiling or wall at a point centrally located in the corridor or area giving
access to the rooms used for sleeping purposes. Where a common hallway is used,
smoke detectors shall be spaced not more than 25 feet apart in the hallway. All
smoke detectors shall be located either on the ceiling at a minimum of six to
12 inches from the wall, or on a wall at a minimum of six to 12 inches from the
ceiling, or as per manufacturer guidelines, and within 15 feet of all rooms
used for sleeping purposes. No detectors shall be recessed into the ceiling.
   (D)   Maintenance. It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or
remove any working smoke detector except when it is necessary for maintenance
or inspection purposes. Any smoke detector removed for repair or replacement
shall be reinstalled or replaced so that it is in place during normal sleeping
hours. At every change of tenant in every rental dwelling unit, smoke detectors
shall be tested to see that they are in operable condition. The ongoing
maintenance of the smoke detectors shall be the responsibi1ity of the tenant.
   (E)   Duty of property owner, manager or agent. Every owner, manager or
agent of any rental dwelling unit shall be responsible for the installation and
replacement of defective smoke detectors at anytime. This requirement applies
to smoke detectors required by any state or federal law as well as by this
action.
   (F)   Certificates of compliance.
      (1)   Each owner, manager or agent of any rental dwelling unit in which a
smoke detector has been installed shall provide documentation upon request to
the County Sheriff’s Department that the required installation has been
performed in the owner’s units, and that the detectors are in good working
condition.
      (2)   Each owner, manager or agent shall certify to each new occupant of
any rental dwelling unit covered by this section that all smoke detectors
required have been installed and are in proper working condition.
   (G)   Lack of properly operating smoke detector, complaint, investigation by
official.
      (1)   If a rental dwelling unit is not equipped with the required smoke
detector at the time a new occupant moves into the unit, occupancy shall not be
allowed. If required smoke detectors do not exist, the tenant should give
written notice to the County Sheriff’s Department stating such deficiency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a complaint filed, the County Sheriff’s Department
shall investigate the alleged violation. If the County Sheriff’s Department
finds that the owner or owner’s authorized agent has failed to install a
properly operating smoke detector in the unit under investigation, the County
Sheriff’s Department may cause a citation to be issued.
      (3)   In the absence of a complaint from the tenant, the County Sheriff’s
Department may also investigate the alleged violation. If the County Sheriff’s
Department finds that the owner or the owner’s authorized agent has failed to
install a properly operating smoke detector in the unit under investigation, it
may initiate the citation process by presenting the owner with a written notice
of the deficiency specifying five calendar days for compliance. If the County
Sheriff’s Department finds that the owner or owner’s authorized agent has
complied with divisions (D) and (E) above, but that the tenant has failed to
maintain such smoke detector in properly working condition, the Department may
initiate the citation process. The tenant shall be given written notice of the
deficiency and shall have five days to comply. If the tenant fails to comply,
the County Sheriff’s Department may issue a citation.
   (H)   Transfer of dwelling unit without smoke detector prohibited. No person
shall convey fee title to any real property which includes a dwelling unit, or
transfer possession of any dwelling unit pursuant to a land sale contract,
unless there is installed in the dwelling unit an approved smoke detector,
installed in accordance with this section.
   (I)   Certain persons not liable for damages resulting from mechanical
failure of smoke detector. The owner, owner’s authorized agent, or tenant of a
dwelling unit shall not be held liable in any civil action for damages for
death or injury to persons or property resulting from the mechanical fai1ure of
a smoke detector required under this chapter.
(Ord. 90-10, passed 12-3-1990)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04  UNIFORM ADDRESS NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Uniform numbering system. A plan for the orderly and systematic
numbering of houses and structures located within the jurisdictional area of
the County Area Plan Commission is hereby enacted (hereinafter “uniform
numbering system”). Any and all ordinances previously adopted by the Board of
Commissioners regarding the numbering of houses and structures are hereby
repealed.
   (B)   Relation to health and welfare. The County Commissioners intend to
implement a 911 emergency call system in the county, and the numbering of
houses and other structures in an orderly and systematic manner will make the
location for such houses and structure more expeditious in cases of fire
emergencies, in situations involving immediate need for medical attention for
members of family or occupants of a building, and in instances where police
protection may be required. An orderly and systematic house numbering process
will also enhance the delivery of goods and services, as well as increase the
efficiency of operations such as postal delivery.
   (C)   Conformity. From the effective date of this section, the numbering of
all houses and structures located on lots or parcels of land abutting public
streets or roads within the jurisdictional area of the County Area Plan
Commission shall be accomplished in conformity with the uniform numbering
system as herein described. At the time of the issuance of any permit for the
construction of a house or structure, a number shall be assigned by the County
Building Commissioner to said house or structure as hereinafter provided. Such
number shall be included on the permit, and no permit authorizing the occupancy
of a house or structure shall be issued and no final inspection of a building
performed for the purpose of permitting its occupancy shall be deemed complete
unless such house or structure displays, at the time of inspection, the
officially assigned number in full compliance with the standards of this
section.
   (D)   Base lines and sequences.
      (1)   The general rule shall be 1,000 addresses per mile, except in
certain areas where the irregular direction of the county highways makes
variations necessary, and except in buffer areas adjacent to incorporated
cities or towns.
      (2)   Even numbers shall be used on the north and east sides of roads and
odd numbers on the south and west.
      (3)   The grid system to be used is to be constructed on a north, south,
east and west basis. The starting point of zero for this grid system is at the
southwest corner of Section 2, Township 6N, Region 8E in the Town of Vernon,
with each mile portion of roadway becoming a “block” for uniform numbering
purposes. Each dividing line is to be known as Base Road. Base Road North
extends from said intersection due north to the Decatur County line. Base Road
South extends from said intersection due south to the Jefferson County line.
Base Road East extends from said intersection due east to the Ripley County
line. Base Road West extends from said intersection due west to the Jackson
County line.
      (4)   The uniform numbering system is to keep the current official county
road numbers and add to them a prefix with a numerical location followed by a
letter indicating the direction the road runs from the dividing lines.
      (5)   The current addressing scheme of the City of North Vernon shall be
taken into account for areas adjoining such incorporated area, a determined
buffer zone beyond the corporate limits. The current numbering scheme of
Country Squire shall not be affected.
   (E)   Administrative Office.
      (1)   The County Area Plan Commission shall act as the Administrative
Office (hereinafter “Administrative Office”) in charge of issuing numbers to
houses or structures in compliance with the provisions of this section. The
Administrative Office shall issue numbers to all new houses or structures,
renumber houses and structures whenever it becomes necessary to do so in the
implementation of the uniform system, and cause the numbering of all existing
homes or structures which are not numbered to be numbered in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. Barns, sheds and outbuildings not used for a
habitation or business shall not be numbered.
      (2)   The Administrative Office may establish written guidelines to use
in implementing this section and may amend such guidelines from time to time.
   (F)   Numbers other than on public streets and roads. The Administrative
Office may, if it deems proper and necessary for the implementation of the
uniform numbering system, assign numbers to houses or structures that are
situated on private streets or roads within the jurisdictional area of the
County Area Plan Commission.
   (G)   Standards for the posting of house numbers. The owner or occupant of a
house or structure located within the jurisdictional area of the County Area
Plan Commission shall post officially assigned numbers in English, using Arabic
(not Roman) numerals in a location providing easy identification from the
abutting street or road. Such numbers shall be minimum of four inches in
height, made of durable, weather-proof material, and be a color made to stand
out distinctly against its background. Such official number may be placed
attached to the mailbox (as according to postal regulations) and on a post or
outside light, or on any prominent place on the house or structure so that the
number is identifiable. Provided, however, that if a building is not visible
from a road or if a building is more than 200 feet from a road, the number
shall be displayed at the entrance to the access road or driveway to such
building by means of a separate marker or on a mailbox. Whenever the number is
placed on a place other than the structure itself, it shall be positioned to
allow the structure to be readily identified with the address number, on the
same side of the road as the structure.
   (H)   Renumbering of houses and structures. Houses and structures that were
numbered prior to the effective date of this section shall be renumbered in
order that the same may comply with the uniform numbering system and so that
the numerical harmony throughout an area or areas is substantially achieved.
The Area Plan Commission, as designated in this section, shall authorize such
changes.
   (I)   Notification of local agencies. The Administrative Office shall
provide a uniform system of notification of the issuance of numbers or the
renumbering of houses and structures.
      (1)   Notification shall be made reasonably ahead of impending changes so
as to allow interested groups and agencies to plan and to prepare for proposed
changes.
      (2)   The Administrative Office shall keep accurate records and shall,
from time to time, prepare and make available to the County Commissioners a
report of the status of the implementation of the uniform numbering system.
      (3)   In the assignment of house numbers, the Administrative Office shall
use its best judgment and shall carefully consider and evaluate all
contingencies and shall, with due regard to the sensitive nature of the job
assigned to it, be considerate of the citizens of the county.
   (J)   Enforcement. The Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for
injunction to restrain any person, firm or corporation who shall take down,
alter, deface, destroy or conceal any number assigned to or placed upon any
building in compliance with this section, or who shall place or substitute or
permit to be placed or substituted upon any building an erroneous or improper
number not in compliance with this section or who shall allow to be retained
upon any building an erroneous or improper number not in compliance with this
section. The Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for mandatory
injunction directing a person, firm or corporation to correct any violation of
the provisions of this section or to bring about compliance with the provisions
of this section. If the Board of Commissioners is successful in any such suit,
the defendant or respondent shall bear the costs of the action, including
reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 1992-6, passed 7-6-1992)
COUNTY BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Building Code of the County, may be
cited as such, and will be referred to herein as this subchapter.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 150.16  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare and
for construction of buildings and structures.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 150.17  AUTHORITY.
   The County Building Inspector and the Area Plan Commission Executive
Director are hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce all of
the provisions of this subchapter. Whenever, in this subchapter, it is provided
that anything must be done to the approval of, or subject to, the direction of
the Executive Director, or any other officer of the Building Department, it
shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of determining
whether this subchapter has been complied with; and no such provision shall be
construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what this subchapter
shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by law or to enforce
this subchapter in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner. The term BUILDING
COMMISSIONER also means the County Area Plan Commission Executive Director.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 150.18  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions set forth in I.C. 22-12-1 of the following terms are
hereby incorporated by reference in this subchapter:
      (1)   Agricultural Purpose;
      (2)   Building Law;
      (3)   Class 1 Structure;
      (4)   Class 2 Structure;
      (5)   Commission;
      (6)   Construction;
      (7)   Control;
      (8)   Department;
      (9)   Equipment Law;
      (10)   Fire Department;
      (11)   Fire Safety Law;
      (12)   Industrialized Building System;
      (13)   Law;
      (14)   Manufactured Home;
      (15)   Mobile Structure;
      (16)   Person;
      (17)   Regulated Amusement Advice;
      (18)   Regulated Boiler or Pressure Vessel;
      (19)   Regulated Explosive;
      (20)   Regulated Lifting Device;
      (21)   Regulated Place of Amusement or Entertainment;
      (22)   Rules Board;
      (23)   Structure; and
      (24)   Vehicular Bridge.
   (B)   The term BUILDING COMMISSIONER also means the County Area Plan
Commission Executive Director.
   (C)   Two copies of I.C. 22-12-1, setting forth the definitions of the above
incorporated terms, are on file in the office of the County Auditor and are
available for public inspection.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 150.19  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the construction, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and structures, other
than fences and industrialized buildings or mobile structures certified under
I.C. 22-15-4, in the county or any incorporated areas in which an agreement to
regulate these activities has been reached. The county includes the Town of
Vernon and the City of North Vernon. Agricultural buildings are exempt from
this subchapter.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.20  ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building Rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, as set out in the following Articles of Title 675 of the Indiana
Administrative Code, are hereby incorporated by reference in this code and
shall include later amendments to those Articles as the same are published in
the Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   Indiana Building Code;
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - One and Two-Family Dwelling Code: Indiana Residential
Code.
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Code: Indiana Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Code: Indiana Electrical Code.
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes: Indiana Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Code: Indiana Energy Conservation
Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Code: Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
      (8)   Article 22 - Fire Prevention Code: Indiana Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the building rules, codes and standards, which are
incorporated herein, are on file in the office of the County Auditor and are
available for public inspection.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 150.21  APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless
the application for a permit is accompanied by:
      (1)   Plans and specifications showing the work to be done;
      (2)   A copy of the recorded deed or recorded contract or property card;
      (3)   A copy of a driveway permit (issued either by the county or the
state);
      (4)   The original septic permit or a letter of septic hook-on;
      (5)   A plat or a sketch of the proposed location showing lot boundaries,
location of proposed structure and distances from proposed structure to all
property lines and to the road and location of septic field and any other
structures on said property; and
      (6)   Any other documents deemed necessary to assess zoning and setback
requirements by the County Area Plan Commission.
   (B)   The application shall be made on forms provided by the Building
Commissioner. All fees required by this chapter shall be paid at the County
Area Plan Commission prior to the issuance of any building permit. In addition,
a copy of a design release for class one structures, issued by the State
Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to  I.C. 22-15-3-1,
shall be provided to the Building Commissioner before issuance of a permit for
construction covered by such design release.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 150.22  PERMIT REQUIRED AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning any construction,
alteration or repair of any building or structure which involves or affects any
electrical, plumbing, ventilating, heating or air conditioning systems or
structural elements. This section shall not be interpreted to require a
building permit for cosmetic repairs or maintenance.
   (B)    Demolition permits issued shall expire 90 days from the date of the
original issue. All other permits issued shall expire one year from the date of
the original issue. Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for an
extension of time when the permittee is unable to commence or finish work
within the time required for good and satisfactory reasons. The Building
Commissioner may extend the time for action by the permittee showing that
circumstances beyond the control of the permittee have prevented action from
being taken.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit
issued under the provisions of this subchapter whenever the permit is issued in
error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any
ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008; Ord. 2021-03A, passed 3-18-2021)  Penalty,
see §
150.99
§ 150.23  OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all other
laws pertaining to the work, and in addition to the fees for permits, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed by such other laws.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24  FEES.
   Permit fees shall be in accordance with the official permit fee schedule as
adopted by the County Board of Commissioners, Vernon Common Council and City of
North Vernon Council. Reinspection fees for work found incomplete or not ready
upon requested inspection shall be as in the official permit fee schedule.
Permit re-issue fees shall be as in the official permit fee schedule.
Investigation fees of work for which a permit is required and has been
commenced without first obtaining a permit shall be as in the official permit
fee schedule.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 150.25  REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Department shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage;
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain having special flood hazards to
assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and mobile
homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designated (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement or the structure and flood damage; and
      (3)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26  INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner shall
make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as are
necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and
the terms of the permit. Reinspection of work found to be incomplete or not
ready for inspection are subject to assessment or reinspection fees as
prescribed in this subchapter. In addition to the specified inspections the
Building Commissioner may make or require other inspections or documents as
deemed necessary to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.27  INSPECTION ASSISTANCE BY TOWNSHIP AND DISTRICT FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   The Chief of each Township Fire Department or Fire District Fire Department,
or his or her designated representative, shall assist the Building Commissioner
in the inspection or fire suppression, detection, alarm systems and other
provisions of the Indiana Fire Prevention Code and shall provide reports of
such inspection to the Building Commissioner as requested.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 150.28  ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner, the
County Building Inspector or their duly authorized representatives may enter at
reasonable times any building, structure or premises in the county, to perform
any duty imposed upon them by this subchapter. The county includes the Town of
Vernon and the City of North Vernon, Indiana.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 150.29  STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, the Building Inspector and/or Building Commissioner may order the
work stopped by notice, in writing, served on any persons engaged in the doing,
or causing such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such
work until authorized by the Building Commissioner and/or Building Inspector to
proceed with the work.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.30  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered
or repaired, after the effective date of this subchapter, shall be issued
unless such building or structure is determined, after final inspection, to
have been erected, altered or repaired in compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter. However, the Building Commissioner may issue a partial or
temporary certificate of occupancy prior to final inspection upon application
and demonstration by the applicant that the issuance of a partial or temporary
certificate of occupancy would promote the purpose of this subchapter. It shall
be unlawful to occupy any such building or structure prior to the issuance of a
full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy issued by the Building
Commissioner.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31  WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade and applicable State Building
Codes.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.32  VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sublessee or occupant, to erect construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences and industrialized buildings or mobile
structures certified under I.C. 22-15-4, in the county, or cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to, or in violation of, the provisions of this
subchapter. The county includes the Town of Vernon and the City of North
Vernon.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 150.33  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal a decision or order of the
Building Commissioner and/or Building Inspector to the Board of Zoning Appeals
of the county and any order pertaining to a building law to the State Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 150.34  REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the county, bring actions in
the circuit or superior courts of the county, for mandatory and injunctive
relief in the enforcement of, and to secure compliance with, any order or
orders of the Building Commissioner. Any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.45  ESTABLISHED; TITLE.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-3, there is hereby established the
County Unsafe Building Code.
(Ord. 3-93, passed 6-21-1993)
§ 150.46  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Department of Planning and Zoning and/or the Area Plan
Commission.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.  The Building Commissioner and/or the Director of the
Department of Planning and Zoning.
   HEARING AUTHORITY.  The Board of Zoning Appeals as the body designated to
conduct hearings in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-7 and §
150.52 of this chapter.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.  Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate, a future interest, a present possessory
interest, or an equity interest of a contract purchaser.
   UNSAFE BUILDING.  The definition of an UNSAFE BUILDING contained in I.C. 36-
7-9-4, is hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building
condition or maintenance in the city, by adding the following to said
definition:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not arranged as required so as to be in
compliance with the applicable building code then in force;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose or otherwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings or similar structure, purpose or
location as established by the applicable state building code then in force;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such extent that the structural strength
or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such catastrophe and
is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of similar structure,
purpose or location as established by the applicable state building code then
in force;
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (6)   Whenever any portion or a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation of the exterior thereof is not sufficient strength or stability
or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be capable of
resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the working stresses
permitted for such buildings as established by the applicable state building
code then in force;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has cracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, is
likely to partially or completely collapse because of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause.
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this county or of any law or ordinance of the state or county relating to
the condition, location or structure of buildings;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 66% of the:
         (a)   Strength;
         (b)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
         (c)   Weather resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy
in the same location;
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities or otherwise, is determined by the Building Commissioner to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to
cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire resistive construction and is determined by the Building
Commissioner, the County Health Officer and the Chief of the Local Fire
Department to be a public nuisance, a building can be condemned and occupancy
denied; and
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. 3-93, passed 6-21-1993)
§ 150.47  STATUTES ADOPTED.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 together with all hearing requirements, is
hereby adopted by reference as the County Unsafe Building Code. All proceedings
within the county for inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall
be governed by said code and the provisions of this subchapter. In the event
the provisions of this subchapter conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-
1 through 36-7-9-28, then the provisions of the state statutes shall control.
(Ord. 3-93, passed 6-21-1993)
§ 150.48  COMPLIANCE.
   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or any order issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 3-93, passed 6-21-1993)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.49  NUISANCE DECLARED; ABATEMENT REQUIRED.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the county which are determined,
after inspection by the Commissioner to be unsafe as defined in this subchapter
are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with the procedure
specified in this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-93, passed 6-21-1993)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.50  ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Enforcement Authority shall, after consultation with appropriate county
officials and/or agencies, be authorized to administer and to proceed under the
provisions of this subchapter in ordering the repair or removal of any
buildings found to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified hereafter.
Whenever, in the building regulations of the county, or in this subchapter, it
is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the
direction of the Building Commissioner or any other officer of the Planning
Department, this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of
determining whether the rules and standards established by ordinance have been
complied with; no such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power
to require conditions no prescribed by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance
provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(Ord. 3-93, passed 6-21-1993)
§ 150.51  STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, RECONSTRUCTION AND THE LIKE.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions
of the rules and regulations pertaining to construction, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical and one- and two-family dwellings, promulgated by the Administrative
Building Council of Indiana, or its successor, shall be considered standard and
acceptable practice for all matters covered by this subchapter or orders issued
pursuant to this subchapter by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 3-93, passed 6-21-1993)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.52  HEARING AUTHORITY DESIGNATED.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby designated the hearing authority in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-7 and for the purpose of
conducting hearings in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-7.
(Ord. 3-93, passed 6-21-1993)
§ 150.53  UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget
of the Board of Public Works and Safety in accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 36-7-9-14.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to administer upon any
bids for or demolition contracts awarded by the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-93, passed 6-21-1993)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   For violations of §
150.01:
      (1)   First offense. Upon an individual’s first offense of not obtaining
a permit or improper permit usage, the individual shall be given 30 calendar
days to obtain the proper permit. The Commission Executive Director shall make
a follow up inspection to the property after 15 calendar days. No further work
shall take place until a proper permit is obtained.
      (2)   Second offense. Upon an individual’s second offense of not
obtaining a permit or improper permit usage, whether the offense involves the
same or different property as the first offense, the Commission may file with
the appropriate court a motion to order a permit or for a cease work order. 
All court expenses shall be paid by the property owner.
   (C)   Any owner of a dwelling unit, dwelling, apartment house or lodging
house found to be in violation of §
150.03 may be fined in a sum as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation owning or occupying a building who
shall fail to number such building or who shall fail to maintain the number of
such building as provided in §
150.04 shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of §
150.04 and may be fined a sum as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time for each day’s violation.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
§§
150.15 through
150.34, or performs any act prohibited therein, or fails to perform any duty
lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building Commissioner, or
fails, neglects or refuses to obey any lawful order given by the Building
Commissioner in connection with the provisions of those section, commits a
Class C ordinance violation. Each day such a violation is committed, or
permitted to continue by the violator, constitutes a separate Class C ordinance
violation.
(Ord. 90-10, passed 12-3-1990; Ord. 1992-6, passed 7-6-1992; Ord. 06, 2008,
passed 6-23-2008; Ord. 08, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
CHAPTER 151:  STREETS AND ROADWAYS
Section
   
151.01   Closure or temporary restrictions to traffic
   
151.02   Traveling on public roadways
   
151.03   Working in public roadways; permit
 
   
151.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Application Permit for Construction in a Public Right-of-Way
§ 151.01  CLOSURE OR TEMPORARY RESTRICTIONS TO TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Purpose. To authorize the temporary imposition of restrictions on the
use of designated county highways as permitted by state law, including, but not
limited to, I.C. 8-17-1, I.C. 9-20 and I.C. 9-21, and to authorize temporary
closure of designated county highways as permitted by “home rule” whenever any
highway, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, flooding or other climatic
conditions will be damaged or whenever a threat to public safety is presented
by continued use of the road, and to provide civil penalties for violations of
such restrictions or closures.
   (B)   Imposition of temporary restrictions or closures.
      (1)   The Board of County Commissioners, upon recommendations from its
authorized representatives, (including the County Highway Engineer, the County
Highway District Foreman, County Sheriff, County 911/EMS Directors and/or the
County EMA Director) may temporarily close a county highway by use of physical
barricades (including flood gates) and signage where it is determined that
damages to the roadway or right-of-way or a threat to public safety is present
by continued use of the county highway. The county highway may be reopened when
it is determined that the condition causing the threat to public safety or
damage to the roadway has been repaired or alleviated.
      (2)   The closure may also temporarily prohibit the operation of trucks
or other commercial vehicles on designated county highways and/or impose
temporary weight, size or use restrictions where damage to the roadways is
threatened by the continued use of the county highway. The temporary
restrictions may be removed when it is determined that the conditions causing
the damage or threat of damage to the roadway or right-of-way has been
alleviated.
      (3)   The county shall erect and maintain barricades and signs specifying
the restriction on use of the county highway and specifying the penalties
imposed on violations of this section at each end of that part of any
designated county highway or at the nearest intersecting roadway.
      (4)   Any person who fails to comply with a temporary closure or
temporary restriction imposed by the County Commissioners under this section or
who tampers with, vandalizes or removes a barricade or sign erected pursuant to
this section commits a violation.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02  TRAVELING ON PUBLIC ROADWAYS.
   (A)   No vehicles shall cross a drainage ditch or park in the right-of-way
in such a way which obstructs the intended use and safety of the county
roadways, except at driveway locations, field entrances or at locations which
have been approved in accordance with §
151.03.
   (B)   Areas of repeated or continuous violation, or locations where vehicles
in the right-of-way obstruct safe sight distance will be posted as “No
Parking.”
(Ord. 00-10, passed 5-12-2000)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03  WORKING IN PUBLIC ROADWAYS; PERMIT.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Within the county limits, no one shall cut, jack, bore, place
utility lines, place drainage structures, place a driveway or block a county
right-of-way without first obtaining a permit from the Highway Department, and
posting a bond sufficient to cover the costs of repair. The amount of the bond
shall be determined as based upon the extent of the cut, and in no case shall
it be less than an amount as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time,
for each and every cut, jack, bore, blockade or drive. If the cut in any
roadway is planned to exceed or does exceed 25 feet in length, an additional
cash deposit as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time, per foot for
the amount of footage of the cut in excess of 25 feet shall be made with the
County Treasurer for the satisfactory repair of the roadway in accordance with
the specifications as outlined in the following divisions of this section.
      (2)   The form of such permit shall be determined by the Highway
Department. Forms shall be available at the Highway Department, Area Plan
Office and the Treasurer’s Office.
      (3)   Applicants for a permit for any work in a right-of-way shall
submit:
         (a)   A sketch or drawing or otherwise clearly communicate the
location and design;
         (b)   Labeled specifications on pipe and backfill per county
standards;
         (c)   The traffic-control plan (if necessary); and
         (d)   The proposed restoration for the proposed cut in a manner
satisfactory to and approved by the Highway Department.
      (4)   In cases where an entire roadway is requested to be closed between
intersections, the applicant shall submit a detour plan for review and
approval. The detour plan shall also make allowance for local access to
affected properties and give detailed reasons why the applicant is requesting
closure of the entire roadway. All signage and traffic-control shall meet INDOT
standards.
      (5)   All the applications shall be submitted to the Highway Department
at least seven calendar days prior to beginning construction. Written approval,
with or without conditions, or denial, with reasons for said denial, shall be
issued by the Highway Department. The applicant is responsible for forwarding a
copy of the final permit to the 911 Dispatch Center, the Sheriff’s Department,
the local fire department, and the school system.
      (6)   This application time period need not apply to emergency conditions
wherein a public utility must open cut a roadway to repair or replace a failed
or ruptured main or service connection, but the utility shall immediately
notify the Highway Department, as well as the 911 Dispatch Center, the
Sheriff’s Department, the Fire Department and the school system. Within three
calendar days after beginning the emergency repair the application shall be
submitted along with the other detailed information.
      (7)   Permits issued shall be valid for a period of no more than 90 days
until work commences, and all work shall be performed within an additional 90-
day period. If work is not completed within the 180-day time frame, a new
permit application must be submitted for review.
   (B)   No cut roadways.
      (1)   The following roadways are considered “no cut” roadways, and this
section shall apply to the existing utility mains and service lines and any new
utility connections. All attempts shall be made to bore or jack under these
roadways so as not to impede traffic and/or damage the roadway surface. Open
cuts will be allowed in the instance where the existing main is in the roadway
and no other method appears available for making a connection other then an
open cut, but no work shall proceed without first obtaining the approval and
written permission of the Highway Department of the county for such open cut.
         (a)   Any roadway paved, chip and sealed, or repaved in the last ten
years from permit date.
         (b)   Any arterial or collector roadway in the county.
      (2)   Applicants for a permit for any construction on these roadways
shall submit a sketch or drawing or otherwise clearly communicate the location
and design, and the traffic-control plan in a manner satisfactory to and
approved by the Highway Department. These roadways shall remain open to
traffic, and remain completely open and accessible through the life of the
construction project. The permit holder will be allowed to close one lane at a
time, provided proper warning devices and flagpersons are utilized and conform
to current INDOT specifications. All necessary warning devices and signs shall
be utilized by the permit holder. The minimum permit fee bond for these
roadways shall be a sum as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time,
cash or approved surety bond.
   (C)   Open cut specification. Said specifications for the repair of cuts are
as follows.
      (1)   Before the hole caused by the cut is to be filled the existing
surface shall be cut or sawed to a smooth edge. The open cut shall be
backfilled with either stone (Sizes #5 or #53 or cold mix asphalt) and
compacted with a suitable mechanical roller or vibratory plate compactor in
six-inch lifts, depending upon the area involved.
      (2)   The stone or cold mix asphalt shall be placed up to the top of the
existing surface and shall be kept in place for a period of 30 days after which
time such material shall be dug out to a depth of at least eight inches below
the top surface of the road grade and in the case of existing asphalt roadways
replaced by two layers of full depth asphalt at least six inches in total
depth, the top surface of which shall be two inches below the top surface of
the roadway grade, two inches of hot asphalt surface mix shall be placed atop
the base layers and compacted with a suitable mechanical roller or vibratory
plate compactor, depending upon the area involved. In the case of existing
concrete roadways, six inches of 4,000 psi reinforced concrete, broom finished,
shall be placed.
      (3) In cases where a pipe is to be placed in the cut, full depth granular
backfill compacted in six-inch minimum layers shall be placed.
      (4)   All excess materials from the cut shall be loaded and hauled away
by the persons, firm, corporation or the agents thereof cutting into the
roadway, unless directed otherwise by the Highway Department.
      (5)   Pipe material under driveways or within eight feet of edge of
pavement shall be:
         (a)   Culverts - aluminized corrugated steel, with 0.064 inch minimum
wall thickness or
plastic ADSN-12or similar structurally equivalent pipe;
         (b)   Pressurized pipe (non-water) - C-900 PVC or equal grade pipe
with one-inch magnetic tape placed one foot deep; and
         (c)   Pressurized pipe (water) - SDR-21 PVC or equal grade pipe with
one-inch magnetic tape placed one foot deep.
      (6)   Embedment of pipe shall be equal to or better than the pipe
manufacturer’s recommendation.
      (7)   All backfill in roadway areas or in areas that will be under or
parallel within five feet of pavement or curb for sanitary sewers, storm
sewers, force mains or other open cuts shall be made with approved granular
material. In all other areas outside of five feet from the edge of pavement the
backfill material may consist of suitable on-site material but the pipe must be
covered with compacted bedding material to a depth of one foot over the highest
point of the pipe.
   (D)   Driveway conditions.
      (1)   In the county, no one shall:
         (a)   Alter a roadway curb by cutting the curb or otherwise
demolishing the curb;
         (b)   Alter or block the county roadway gutter or ditch;
         (c)   Alter a sidewalk; or
         (d)   Construct a new driveway for the purpose of driving on and off a
roadway, without first obtaining the approval and written permission of the
County Highway Department for such driveway.
      (2)   The following specifications apply to all that portion of the
driveway which falls within the right-of-way of the county roadway. Typically a
20-foot minimum right-of-way from centerline of existing pavement exists on all
county roads.
      (3)   All efforts shall be made to locate all driveways off of local
roadways, rather than arterial or collector roadways. No driveway shall be
placed within 50 feet of an intersecting public roadway. No driveway shall be
placed closer than ten feet to another driveway as measured at the right-of-way
line. All driveways shall be perpendicular to the roadway they are connecting
to from the connection point to the right-of-way line.
      (4)   All new residential driveways shall meet the roadway with a minimum
radius of ten feet. The minimum radius for driveways intended for commercial
traffic or high volumes of vehicle traffic shall be 25 feet. The portion of the
driveway which falls within the right-of-way of the county roadway shall have a
minimum width of ten feet as measured at the right-of-way for residential
driveways, or a minimum width of 20 feet as measured at the right-of-way for
commercial or high traffic driveways.
      (5)   If the new driveway is to cross a drainage or roadside ditch, or
for any other reason it is deemed necessary that a culvert is required to be
placed in the public right-of-way, such culvert shall be no less than 12 inches
in diameter and 20 feet in length. Larger diameter and length culverts may be
required by the Highway Department, if drainage conditions so warrant. In order
to prevent impeding normal drainage, culverts for new driveways are never in
any case to be smaller than the closest upstream culvert.
      (6)   In the construction of the new commercial driveway, the portion of
the driveway which falls inside the county roadway right-of-way is to be
composed of hard surface material of the same character as the material of the
connecting roadway.
      (7)   County sidewalks are not to be used as driveways, nor are they to
be driven upon. Existing county sidewalks are not to be used as portions of the
new driveway. In the construction of the new driveway, the existing county
sidewalk is not to be covered over or crossed by the new driveway material; but
must be removed and the new driveway surface material must be placed flush with
the remaining sidewalk surface, or, if not placed flush with the sidewalk
surface, then sloping ramps must be placed in the sidewalk on each side of the
drive so that there is a smooth continuation from sidewalk to driveway to
sidewalk which is ADA approved for the handicapped.
      (8)   This section shall apply to any widening or reconstruction of any
existing drive. This section shall not apply to the surfacing or resurfacing of
existing driveways, unless a new commercial business will utilize the driveway.
New commercial uses for existing private driveways must comply with the above
commercial needs upon the next resurface of the driveway.
   (E)   Warranty.
      (1)   The applicant shall be entitled to a return of their cash bond or
the release of their surety bond once the county has determined that the work
done as contemplated by the permit has been satisfactorily completed and the
applicant has complied with all the terms and conditions of this section. If no
such determination is made within 90 days of the date the bond is submitted to
the county, any cash bond shall be forfeited and paid into the Roadway Fund of
the County Commissioners and/or the county shall take appropriate action to
collect any surety bond whose proceeds shall be paid into the same fund.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation obtaining a permit to cut into a
county roadway thereby warrants the repair of the cut to be made in accordance
with the specifications, of this chapter and to be free from defects in
material and workmanship for a period of one year after the date the asphalt
topping required by this section is placed in the cut.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 1-19-1999)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates the provisions of §
151.01 commits a Class C infraction and shall be liable for a judgment in favor
of the county in an amount as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time, plus attorney fees and court costs.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
151.02 shall be subject to the same penalties and restrictions as set forth in
state law for parking in a no parking zone. Vehicles violating the no parking
zones and/or §
151.02 will be subject to removal by towing at the owner’s expense.
   (D)   Anyone found in violation of the conditions stated in §
151.03 or found performing work in the right-of-way without a valid permit
shall be subject to a fine as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time, along with being responsible for the cost of any and all repairs and the
liability thereof for court costs and attorney’s fees.
      (1)   Each day the applicant does not obtain the necessary permit may
also be treated as a separate violation.
      (2)   Each and every occurrence may be treated as a separate violation.
      (3)   The Highway Department of the County is hereby directed to draft or
to cause to be drafted the necessary written forms requiring such information
as is reasonably related to the purposes of §
151.03 to be used in the implementation of §
151.03.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 1-19-1999; Ord. 00-10, passed 5-12-2000; Ord. 2009-03,
passed 6-8-2009)
APPENDIX A:  APPLICATION PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION IN A PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
JENNINGS COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
4800 N. State Road 3, Box 198
North Vernon, Indiana 47265
APPLICATION PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION IN A PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION (CHECK ALL THAT APPLY):
DRIVEWAY:                              CULVERT:                      
      POLE LINE:                  
OPEN CUT:                                 JACK OR BORE:              
      BLOCKADE:                
APPLICANT’S NAME:                                                              
                                           
ADDRESS:                                                                      
       CITY, ST, ZIP:                          
PHONE:                                                                        
                                                         
CONTACT PERSON:                                                                
                                             
APPLICATION DATE:                                                              
                                             
APPLICATION LOCATION:                 _                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                         
PURPOSE OF APPLICATION:                                                        
                                                                               
         
It is required that a Sketch of the Location and Traffic-Control Plan be
attached, or the application will not be considered.
____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
                                                                               
                                                           
FOR COUNTY USE BELOW THIS LINE:
COUNTY DISTRICT   1  2  3      (circle one)
SPECIAL CONDITIONS                                                             
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                     
AUTHORIZED BY:                                                                
                                               
DATE:                                                                          
                                                         
REQUIRED BOND:                                                                
                                               
(Ord. 99-02, passed 1-19-1999)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
152.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
152.12   Interpretation
   
152.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of Administrator
   
152.26   Permit procedures
   
152.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.43   Critical facility
   
152.44   Standards for identified floodways
   
152.45   Standards for identified fringe
   
152.46   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
152.47   Standards for flood-prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
152.60   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.61   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.62   Variance procedures
   
152.63   Conditions for variances
   
152.64   Variance notification
   
152.65   Historic structure
   
152.66   Special conditions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
County Commissioners of Jennings County, the City Council of the City of North
Vernon and the Common Council of the Town of Vernon do hereby adopt the
following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of Jennings County, the City of North Vernon
and the Town of Vernon are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss
of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately floodproofed or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in Jennings County, the City of North Vernon and the Town of Vernon by
fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.04  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, means the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1, 1997 will
include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision
(LOMR) and letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars;
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value) or adjusted
assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929 AS CORRECTED IN 1929. A
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88) AS ADOPTED IN 1993. A
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
152.07. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term base flood, 1% annual
chance flood and 100-year flood.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-
prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of
Jennings County, the City of North Vernon and the Town of Vernon subject to
inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of Jennings County, the City of
North Vernon and the Town of Vernon are generally identified as such on the
Jennings County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated
April 2, 2015 as well as any future updates, amendments or revisions, prepared
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date. (These
areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any alteration
of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
SHADED X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). UNSHADED X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B AND C.)
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.06  LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the
jurisdiction of Jennings County, the City of North Vernon and the Town of
Vernon.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Jennings County, the City of North
Vernon and the Town of Vernon shall be as delineated on the 1% annual chance
flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Jennings County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map dated April
2, 2015 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each of
the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Jennings County, the City of North Vernon
and the Town of Vernon, delineated as an “A Zone” on the Jennings County,
Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated April 2, 2015 as
well as any future updates, amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date, shall be according to
the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data,
the party needs to replace existing data with better data that meets current
engineering standards. To be considered, this data must be submitted to the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.08  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.11  DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.12  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.13  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of Jennings County, the City of North Vernon, the Town of
Vernon, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources or the state for any flood
damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25  DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Executive Director of the Jennings County Area Plan Commission shall
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.26  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a letter of map revision. (See § 152.27
(B)(6) for additional information.)
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure
or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant’s risk.
         (b)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a
floodproofed structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered professional
engineer and certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
floodproofing certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the floodproofing certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an
elevation certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is
required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project
includes a floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be
submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.27  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
152.44 and
152.46(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
152.26;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
152.26;
      (13)   Stop work orders:
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease; and
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   Revocation of permits:
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based;
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to the requirements of §
152.40, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Non-residential structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or non-residential structure (or manufactured home) shall either
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the FPG (two
feet above the base flood elevation) or be floodproofed to or above the FPG.
Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure,
openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall
be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D) below.
      (2)   Structures located in all “A Zones” may be floodproofed in lieu of
being elevated if done in accordance with the following.
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
152.27(B)(12).
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls.
      (3)   Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or non-residential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement;
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above; and
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above; and
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D) above.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.42  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43  CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.44  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
152.07, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non- boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.) No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
152.40 through
152.47 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (B)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse effect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood
elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway
condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (C)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the Floodplain Administrator shall submit the data and request that the
Federal Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per
mapping standard regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.45  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
152.40 through
152.47 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.46  STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
152.40 through
152.47 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
152.40 through
152.47 have been met.
   (C)   Total cumulative effect of the proposed development. The total
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the regulatory flood
more than 0.14 of one foot and shall not increase flood damages or potential
flood damages.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.47  STANDARDS FOR FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood-prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
152.40 through
152.47.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 152.60  DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.61  DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Jennings County
Circuit Court.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.62  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.63  CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
152.44 or
152.46(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
152.44 or
152.46(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
152.41, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See §
152.64.)
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request. (See §
152.64.)
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.64  VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.65  HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.66  SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter, and the
purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the zoning code for Jennings County. All
violations shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding as set by the Board and/
or Council from time to time.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent Jennings County, the City of North Vernon
and the Town of Vernon from taking such other lawful action to prevent or
remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person
or persons responsible.
(Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-12-2015)
CHAPTER 153:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose
   
153.002   Administration generally
   
153.003   Definitions
   
153.004   Enforcement
Procedures
   
153.015   Pre-application
   
153.016   Procedure for conditional approval of primary (preliminary) plat
   
153.017   Secondary (final) plat approval procedure
   
153.018   Minor subdivision plat
Plats and Data
   
153.030   Pre-application plans and data
   
153.031   Plats and data for conditional approval of preliminary plat
   
153.032   Plats and data for final approval
Variances and Modifications
   
153.045   Hardship
   
153.046   Conditions
   
153.047   Large scale developments
Certificates
   
153.060   Certificate of approval
   
153.061   Land surveyor’s certificate
   
153.062   Legal description certificate
   
153.063   Acknowledgment certificate
   
153.064   Dedication certificate
   
153.065   Other certificates
Design Standards
   
153.080   Generally
   
153.081   Streets and alleys
   
153.082   Easements
   
153.083   Blocks
   
153.084   Lots
   
153.085   Public sites and open spaces
   
153.086   Non-residential subdivisions
Required Improvements
   
153.100   Monuments and markers
   
153.101   Streets and alleys
   
153.102   Storm and surface water drainage
   
153.103   Sewage disposal
   
153.104   Street signs
   
153.105   Water
   
153.106   Curb and gutter
   
153.107   Driveways and parking lot entrances
   
153.108   Sidewalks
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of controlling and regulating the
division of any land for any purpose within the jurisdictional area of the Area
Plan Commission of the county. The Area Plan Commission shall have all the
powers and duties with respect to preliminary and final plats and subdivisions
and the procedure relating thereto which is specified by statute and by this
chapter. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the protection
of the public health, safety and welfare, by providing for the harmonious
development of the county, for the coordination of streets and with other
features, for adequate open spaces for traffic, schools and recreation, for
adequate storm water drainage and sewage disposal, for the efficient and
economical maintenance of streets and for the development for public use of
public lands.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.002  ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. This chapter shall apply to all subdivisions of land
within the corporate limits of the City of North Vernon, the Town of Vernon and
any participating towns, and Jennings County, Indiana, as now or hereafter
established.
   (B)   Authority. Be it ordained by the county, under authority of the
Indiana Code, that no plat or replat of a subdivision of land located within
the corporate limits of the City of North Vernon, the Town of Vernon, any
participating towns, and the county, shall be recorded until it shall have the
approval of the Commission, and such approval shall have been entered upon the
plat. The plat shall be accompanied by a certificate, bearing the seal of the
Commission and attested to by the Secretary of the Commission. There shall be
attached to the plat, or made a part thereof, a certificate disclosing that
proper public notice of the hearing has been given.
   (C)   Repealer. Upon the adoption of this chapter according to law, the
Subdivision Control Ordinance of the county, City of North Vernon, and Town of
Vernon, adopted July 1967, as amended are hereby repealed, except for such
sections expressly retained herein.
   (D)   Amendments. For the purpose of providing for the public health, safety
and general welfare, the county, city or town, on recommendation of the
Commission, may from time to time amend the provisions imposed by these
subdivision regulations. Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be
held by the Commission and/or the county, city or town in the manner prescribed
by law.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.003  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING USE. 
      (1)   A subordinate, detached and roofed structure, not designed for
human habitation, which serves a function incidental to and associated with
that of the same lot and which does not change or alter the character of the
premises.
      (2)   Public utility communications, electric, gas, water and sewer
lines, their supports and incidental equipment.
   ACT. Shall refer to the existing Indiana Code. (See INDIANA CODE.)
   ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE.  (See SIGN.)
   AGRICULTURE.
      (1)   The use of land for active pursuit of agricultural purposes,
including farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture, animal and poultry husbandry, the primary processing
of products thereof produced on the premises and the necessary accessory uses
for packing, treating or sorting said products.
      (2)   The principal characteristic of such operations shall not include
the commercial processing of agricultural products produced primarily on farms
other than that on which the processing facilities are located.
   AIRPORT.  Any location, including necessary buildings, either on land, water
or structure, which is designed or used for landing and taking-off of aircraft.
      (1)   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known, or hereafter invented, used or
designed for navigation of or flight in the air.
      (2)   AIRPORT.   The North Vernon Municipal Airport.
      (3)   AIRPORT ELEVATION.  The highest point of an airport’s usable
landing area measured in feet from mean sea level, and established to be 758
feet above mean sea level (MSL).
      (4)   AIRPORT HAZARD.  Any structure, object or natural growth, located
on or in the vicinity of a public airport, or any use of land near such
airport, which obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in
landing or take-off at such airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing
or takeoff of aircraft.
      (5)   AIRPORT LAYOUT PLAN.  An overall planning document geometrically
establishing the horizontal and vertical locations of the ultimate runway ends
at the North Vernon Municipal Airport for which is the basis for the Airport
Zoning District.
      (6)   BOUNDARY.  The property line existing in fee simple and depicted on
the airport zoning map.
      (7)   GEOGRAPHICAL REFERENCE POINT.  The airport reference point (ARP)
established as a point having equal relationship to all existing and proposed
landing and takeoff points, as defined in AC 150/3500-4B, as amended, and
having Latitude 39° 02'36"N and Longitude 85° 37'01"W.
      (8)   PRIMARY SURFACE.  A surface longitudinally centered on a runway.
When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface
extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway; but when the runway has no
specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface
ends at each end of the runway. The width of the primary surface of a runway
will be that width prescribed in Part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations
(FAR) for the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that
runway. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
      (9)   RUNWAY.  A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and
takeoff of aircraft along its length.
      (10)   RUNWAY 5-23, NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT.  A runway having an
existing instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with
only horizontal guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a
straight-in non-precision instrument approach procedure has been approved or
planned, and for which no precision approach facilities are planned or
indicated on an FAA planning document or military service’s military airport
planning document.
      (11)   RUNWAY 15-33, UTILITY.  A runway that is constructed for and
intended to be used by propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross
weight and less.
      (12)   RUNWAY 15-33, VISUAL.  A runway intended solely for the operation
of aircraft using visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument
approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on an FAA approved
airport layout plan, or by any planning document submitted to the FAA by
competent authority.
      (13)   ZONES. The zones established in this chapter are imaginary
horizontal or inclined surfaces as indicated on the North Vernon Municipal
Airport Zoning Map dated August 4, 1981.
   ALLEY.  A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which affords a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction, or any
change in the structural members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams or girders.
   ANIMAL, DOMESTIC.  A horse, mule, swine, goat, sheep, cow, rabbit, turkey,
chicken, guinea, pheasant, quail or similar animals and fowl commonly kept on
farms located in the county area.
   APPLICANT.  The fee simple owner of land who makes application to the County
Area Plan Commission for action by said Commission thereby affecting that land.
   AREA PLAN COMMISSION.  A multiple jurisdictional Plan Commission established
under the area plan law as defined in the I.C. 36-7-4-102 (1981) as amended.
   ARTERIAL.  Either a primary arterial or a secondary arterial as defined in
this section.
   ATTACHED MULTI-FAMILY.  A structure of multi-family use, having common or
party wall or walls.
   BASEMENT.  A story or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a BASEMENT shall be counted as a story when more than one-half of
its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided into rooms and used for commercial or tenant dwelling purposes by
other than a janitor employed on the premises.
   BED AND BREAKFAST.  A building in which one but not more than five guest
rooms are used to provide or offer overnight accommodations to transient guests
for compensation.
   BILLBOARD.  (See SIGN.)
   BLOCK.  A property abutting on one side of a street, and lying between the
two nearest intersecting streets, or between the nearest intersecting street
and railroad right-of-way, waterway or other definite barrier.
   BLOCK, FRONTAGE.  Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying
between the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or
other barrier.
   BLOCK, RESIDENTIAL.  A block in which business or industrial uses are not
permitted.
   BOARD.  Refers to the County Board of Zoning Appeals. Also commonly referred
to by the abbreviation “BZA.”
   BOARDING HOUSE.  A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and
by arrangement, meals and/or lodging are provided for three or more persons but
not to exceed 20 persons.
   BUFFER LANDSCAPING.  Any trees, shrubs, walls, fences, berms or related
landscaping features
required under this chapter or the zoning ordinance on private lots and
privately maintained for buffering lots from adjacent properties or public
rights-of-way for the purpose of increasing sound and/or visual privacy.(See
SCREENING also.)
   BUILDING.  Any roofed structure built for the support, shelter, enclosure or
protection of persons, animals, chattels or moveable property of any kind (each
part of such a structure that is separated from the rest by unbroken party
walls is considered to be a separate building for the purposes of this
chapter). All buildings which are not accessory buildings shall have a
permanent foundation. (Refer to STRUCTURE.)
   BUILDING AREA.  The total ground area, within the lot or project, covered by
enclosed residential building space plus garages, carports and other accessory
buildings.
   BUILDING CODE.  (See CODE/ORDINANCE.)
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER.  For the purposes of this chapter, the Building
Commissioner shall refer to the person employed and delegated the primary
responsibility of issuing permits and may or may not conduct inspections of
same.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. (See HEIGHT.)
   BUILDING INSPECTOR.
      (1)   The term shall refer to the County Building Inspector.
      (2)   The person who, under the direction of the Zoning Enforcement
Officer/Building Commissioner, conducts on-site inspections of buildings for
compliance with the applicable codes.
   BUILDING LINE.  The line that establishes the minimum permitted distance on
a lot between the building and the lot line. Location where the structure is
being built. Setbacks must be met.
   BUILDING PERMIT.  A certificate issued by the Building Permit Official of a
governing body permitting a person, firm or corporation to erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish any building
or structure within its jurisdiction, or cause the same to be done.
   BUILDING PERMIT OFFICIAL.  That official of local government authorized to
issue building permits.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.  (See PRINCIPAL USE BUILDING.)
   BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL.  The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or
exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation
of office, or recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   BUSINESS SCHOOL.  (See TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL.)
   CAMPGROUND.  Any site, lot, field or tract of land under single ownership,
or ownership of two or more people, designed with facilities for short term
occupancy by recreational vehicles and other camping equipment but not
including mobile homes.
   CAMPING TRAILER.  A TRAVEL TRAILER as defined under RECREATIONAL VEHICLE in
this section.
   CAR AREA.  Open space area (uncovered and covered) used for car traffic,
maneuvering and parking. Includes roads and right-of-way of all streets within
the project, plus the area of half of any abutting alley or street right-of-
way.
   CARPORT.  An area under roof which is used for off-street storage of street
vehicles.
   CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
proposes, including
columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in
conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery.
   CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM.  A community sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision or
an existing public sewer system.
   CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM.  A community water supply system including existing
and new wells and/or surface water sources and intakes, treatment facilities
and distribution lines and includes such of the above facilities established by
the developer to serve a new subdivision.
   CERTIFICATE.  The signed and attested document which indicates that a
subdivision has been granted secondary approval by the Commission subsequent to
proper public notice of its hearing.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.  An occupancy permit, as cited in I.C. 36-7-4-801
and 36-7-4-802. A CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE is commonly understood to be final
approval resulting from satisfying all the terms of the applicable permits.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.  A certificate stating that the occupancy and use
of land or a building or structure referred to therein complies with the
provisions of this chapter.
   CHECKPOINT AGENCY.  A public agency or organization called upon by the
Commission to provide expert counsel with regard to a specific aspect of
community development or required by law to give its assent before subdivision
may take place.
   CHILD CARE CENTER.  A non-residential structure in which the operators of
the structure receive compensation for caring for four or more children on a
regular basis. The care center must be licensed by the state, and can include
“nursery schools” or “pre-schools.” This definition does not include public or
private schools of general education. Generally care is provided for four or
more hours during the working hours of the child’s parent or guardian.
   CHILD CARE HOME.  A residential structure in which the resident receives
compensation for the caring for at least six children, for more than four hours
but less than 24 hours, for ten or more consecutive working weekdays (not
including the children for whom the provider is a parent, step-parent,
guardian, custodian or other relative.)
   CHURCH.  A building for religious worship services.
   CITY.  Any classified city or incorporated town.
   CLINIC.  An establishment where patients who are not lodged overnight are
admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians.
   CODE/ORDINANCE.  In subsequent sections hereof, reference may be to “Code”
or to the “Ordinance.” It is intended the terms, when used herein, are
interchangeable.
   COLLECTOR STREET.  A street intended to move traffic from local streets to
secondary arterials. (A collector street serves a neighborhood or large
subdivision and should be designed so that no residential properties face onto
it and no driveway access to it is permitted unless the property is to be in
multifamily use for four or more dwelling units.)
   COMMERCIAL. (See BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL.)
   COMMISSION.  The word COMMISSION refers to the County Area Plan Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  Inclusive physical, social and economic plans and
polices in graphic and verbal statement forms for the development of North
Vernon, Vernon, any other participating town and the county, prepared and
adopted by the Commission and indicating general locations recommended for
public improvement, pursuant to the state acts, and including any part of such
plan and/or policies separately adopted and any amendment to such plan and/or
policies, or parts thereof.
   CONDOMINIUM. The division of building(s) and the related land into
horizontal property interests meeting the requirements of and controlled by
state statutes for condominiums as prescribed by I.C. 32-25.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN(S).  The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat
and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed
for the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of this chapter as a
condition of the approval of the plat.
   CORNER. The point of intersection of any public roads or easements which
have been dedicated and accepted by a unit of government.
   CORNER LOT. (See LOT, CORNER.)
   COUNTY.  Refers to Jennings County, Indiana.
   COUNTY BUILDING CODE.  (See BUILDING CODE.)
   COUNTY RECORDER.  The county official empowered to record and file land
description plats.
   COVENANT. (DEED RESTRICTION)  A private, legal restriction on the use of
land contained in the deed to the property. Normally applied to all lots in any
subdivision.
   COVERAGE. The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon.
   CUL-DE-SAC.  A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement including
public safety vehicles.
   DAY CARE CENTER. (See CHILD CARE CENTER.)
   DAY CARE HOME. (See CHILD CARE HOME.)
   DEAD-END STREET.  A street or a portion of a street with only one vehicular
traffic outlet, and no turnaround at the terminal end.
   DESIGNATED OFFICIALS.  Those officials of the Commission designated in this
subchapter as required signatories for the execution of secondary approval.
   DETACHED BUILDING. A building that has no structural connection with another
building.
   DEVELOPER.  The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent for making applications for development approval shall
be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   DEVELOPMENT DENSITY.  Number of dwelling units per gross acre. (IDEM Permit
System with Sewage and Water.)
      (1)   Low: one or less dwelling units per acre.
      (2)   Medium: one to four dwelling units per acre.
      (3)   High:  over four dwelling units per acre.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN.  A specific plan for the development of real property
that:
      (1)   Requires approval by a plan commission under the 1400 series of
I.C. 36-7-4;
      (2)   Includes a site plan; and
      (3)   Satisfies the development requirements specified in the zoning
ordinance regulating the development; and contains the plan documentation and
supporting information required by the zoning ordinance.
(I.C. 36-7-1-6)
   DISTRICT.  Refers to a section of the jurisdictional area for which uniform
regulations governing the use, height, area, size and intensity of use of
buildings and land, and open spaces about buildings, are herein established.
   DRIVE-IN. An establishment selling foods, frozen desserts or beverages to
consumers, the establishment being designed, intended or used for the
consumption of such items on the premises outside of the building in which they
were prepared.
   DRIVES, PRIVATE. Vehicular streets and driveways, paved or unpaved, which
are wholly within
private property except where they intersect with public streets within public
rights-of-way.
   DRIVEWAY. (See DRIVES, PRIVATE.)
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms, connected constituting a separate,
independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental or lease
on a weekly, monthly or longer basis, and physically separated from any other
rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and containing
independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   EASEMENT. An authorization grant by the property owner for the use of any
designated part of his or her property by a corporation or persons for a
specific use and purpose and officially recorded.
   ESCROW.  A deposit of cash with the Commission in lieu of an amount required
and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond. Such escrow funds
shall be held by the County Auditor.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.  The Executive Director of the Area Plan Commission.
   FAMILY.  One or more persons sharing meals and living as a single
housekeeping unit.
   FARM.  Land for which the primary purpose is the active pursuit of
agriculture and the production of agricultural products. A FARM may include
dwellings for the owner of the farm and/or the operator of the farm, and the
families thereof, as well as necessary buildings to house or accommodate
business activities of the FARM.
   FENCE.  A structure, including entrance and exit gates, designed and
constructed for enclosure or screening.
   FINAL PLAT. The map, drawing or plan described in this chapter of a
subdivision and any accompanying material submitted to the Commission for
secondary approval, and which if approved and signed by the designated
officials, may be submitted to the County Recorder for recording.
   FLAG LOT. (See LOT, FLAG.)
   FLOOD.The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by overflow
from a river, stream, lake or other body of water. I.C. 14-8-2-93 as amended by
Pub. L. No. 123, Acts of 1973, defines FLOOD as “the water of any river or
stream in the state or upon or adjoining any boundary line of the state which
is above the bank and/or outside the channel and banks of such river or stream;
and also means the water of any lake which is above and outside the banks
thereof. See state law for additional definitions.
   FLOOD CONTROL. The prevention of floods, the control, regulation, diversion
or confinement of flood water or flood flow, and the protection therefrom,
according to sound and accepted engineering practice, to minimize the extent of
floods and the death, damage and destruction caused thereby, and all things
incidental thereto or connected with.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  A floodplain, or portion thereof, which has not been
adequately protected from floodwater by means of dikes, levees, reservoirs or
other works approved by the State Natural Resource Commission. These areas are
shown on the zoning map and/or the flood hazard or floodway-flood boundary maps
of the Federal Insurance Administration or maps provided to the Commission from
the State Natural Resources Commission.
   FLOODPLAIN.  The relatively flat or low land adjoining the channel of a
river or stream which has been or may be covered by flood water. The FLOODPLAIN
includes the channel, floodway and floodway fringe.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or stream
and, is that area covered by floodwaters in significant downstream motion or
covered by significant volumes of stored water during the occurrence of the
regulatory flood.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE.  Those portions of the flood hazard areas lying outside the
floodway, which is  inundated by the regulatory flood.
   FLOOR AREA.  The sum of the horizontal areas of the one or several floors
and basements of all buildings or portions thereof, within the project, and
devoted to permitted uses. Not including, however:
      (1)   Floor or basement floor area devoted to off street parking or
loading facilities, including aisles, ramps and maneuvering space;
      (2)   Floor or basement floor area provided for recreational uses,
available to occupants of two or more living units within the project; or
      (3)   Basement floor area provided for storage facilities allocated to
serve individual living units within the project.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR).  The total area of all stories of all buildings
within the project divided by the land area.
   FOUNDATION.  Any structural system for transporting loads from a structure
to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without exceeding the
safe capacity of the supporting soil.
   FREE-STANDING SIGN.  (See SIGN.)
   FRONT LINE.  With respect to a building, means the foundation line that is
nearest the front lot line.
   FRONT YARD.  The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building to the right-of-way line and that right-of-way line, extending to the
side lines of the lot, and measured as the shortest distance from that
foundation to the right-of-way line. The FRONT YARD of a corner lot shall be
that yard abutting the street upon which the lot has its least frontage, except
as deed restrictions specify otherwise.
   FRONTAGE.  Any part of a lot that faces a street, road or public way.
   FRONTAGE STREET.  Any street to be constructed by the developer or any
existing street in which development shall take place on both sides.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE.  An accessory building with capacity for not more than four
motor vehicles per family, not more than one of which may be a commercial. A
garage designed to house two motor vehicles for each family housed in an
apartment shall be classed as a PRIVATE GARAGE.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC.  Any building, or premise, except those defined herein as a
private garage, used for the storage, or care of motor vehicles, or where such
vehicles are equipped for operation, repairs or kept for remuneration, hire or
sale.
   GARAGE SALES.  (See YARD SALES.)
   GOVERNING BODY.  The body of the relevant local government having the power
to adopt ordinances.
   GRADE.  The slope of a street, or other public way, specified in percentage
terms.
   GROUP HOME.  A residential facility licensed by the Developmental
Disabilities Residential Facilities Council that profiles residential services
for not more than eight developmentally disabled persons, none of whom has a
history of violent or anti-social behavior, and such staff as are necessary to
adequately manage the home. Nothing in this chapter shall regulate any
residential facility in a residential zone within the definition of I.C. 12-7-
2-165, as amended, or any such facility operated and existing within the
applicable state and federal laws.
   HARDSHIP.  A perceived difficulty with regard to one’s ability to improve
land stemming from the application of the development standards of this
chapter, which may or may not be subject to relief by means of variance. In and
of themselves, self-imposed situations and claims based on a perceived
reduction of or restriction on economic gain shall not be considered HARDSHIPS.
Self-imposed situations include: the purchase of land with actual or
constructive knowledge that, for reasons other than physical characteristics of
the property, the development standards herein will inhibit the desired
improvement; any improvement initiated in violation of the standards of this
chapter; any result of land division requiring variance from the development
standards of this chapter in order to render that site buildable.
   HEIGHT.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation
unless otherwise stated.
      (2)   With respect to a building, means the vertical distance from the
lot ground level to the highest point, for a flat roof; to the deck line, for a
mansard roof; and to the mean height between eaves and ridges, for a gable, hip
or gambrel roof.
   HOME OCCUPATION OR HOME BUSINESS.  Any use conducted entirely within a
residential structure and participated in, principally by members of the
family, which use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
structure for residential purpose and does not change the character thereof.
   HOTEL.  A building in which lodging or boarding and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person
in charge at all hours. As such it is open to the public in contradiction to a
boarding house or a multiple-family residence which are herein separately
defined.
   HOUSING CODE.  That county ordinance controlling the continuing safety and
healthfulness of buildings for human occupation within the county’s
jurisdiction. Also referred to herein as the County Housing Code.
   I.C. (See INDIANA CODE.)
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.  A certificate issued by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer/Building Commissioner permitting a person, firm or corporation to
erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or
demolish any building or structure within the locality, or cause the same to be
done or change the use or condition of the land.
   IMPROVEMENTS.  (See LOT IMPROVEMENTS or PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.)
   INDIANA CODE.  The Burns Indiana Statutes Code Edition, which codifies all
state statutes for reference purposes. The latest edition with any amending
supplements must be referred to for the laws now in force and applicable.
(Usually abbreviated as I.C. herein.)
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system or any other approved sewage treatment device approved by the
Health Department.
   INSTITUTION.  Buildings and/or land operated by or through various
government programs designed to aid individuals in need of mental, therapeutic,
rehabilitative counseling or other correctional services.
   INTERESTED PARTIES.  Those parties who are the owners of properties
adjoining or adjacent to the proposed subdivision as shown on the sketch plan.
   INTERIOR LOT. (See LOT, INTERIOR.)
   JOINT OWNERSHIP.  Joint ownership among persons shall be constructed as the
same owner; “constructive ownership” for the purpose of imposing subdivision
regulations.
   JUNK VEHICLES.  Includes any of the following criteria:
      (1)   A vehicle that is not properly licensed;
      (2)   Not being operated;
      (3)   Not in running condition;
      (4)   On blocks;
      (5)   Dismantled or improperly stored; or
      (6)   Including any vehicle being “repaired” for more than a 60-day
period.
   JUNKYARD.  Any place at which personal property is or may be salvaged for
reuse, resale or reduction or similar disposition and is owned, possessed,
collected, accumulated, dismantled or sorted; including, but not limited to,
used or salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, lumber, millwork,
brick and similar property except animal matter; and used motor vehicles,
machinery or equipment which is used, owned or possessed for the purposes of
wrecking or salvaging parts therefrom.
   LAND AREA.  The total area within the legal boundaries of a parcel.
   LAND DIVIDER.  The owner of a parcel of land to be further divided through
making an exempt division.
   LANDSCAPE SCREEN.  Any combination of fences, walls, hedges, shrubs, trees
and other landscape materials which effectively provide a solid, dense opaque
mass on a year-round basis, to prohibit view, absorb sound and provide site
delineation.
   LOCAL STREET.  A street intended to provide access to other streets from
individual properties and to provide right-of-way beneath it for sewer, water
and storm drainage pipes.
   LOT.
      (1)   A tract, plot or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land,
that has access to a street or thoroughfare, intended as a unit for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or of building
development.
      (2)   It may be a single parcel separately described in a deed or plat
which is recorded in the office of the County Recorder. In determining lot area
and boundary lines, no part thereof within the limits of a street shall be
included.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees. A lot with
streets abutting more than two sides shall also be a CORNER LOT.
   LOT COVERAGE.  The horizontal area of all buildings on a lot as a percentage
of lot area.
   LOT, FLAG.  A large lot not meeting minimum frontage requirements and where
access to the public road is by a narrow, private right-of-way or driveway.
   LOT FRONTAGE. (See FRONTAGE.)
   LOT IMPROVEMENT.  Any building, structure, work of art or other object or
improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical
betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment. Certain LOT
IMPROVEMENTS shall be provided in these regulations.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner or through lot with only one
frontage on a street.
   LOT LINE.  The property line between two established parcels of land or one
parcel and a public right-of-way or place.
   LOT, THROUGH.  A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one
street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as double frontage
lots.
   LOT TYPE. (See LOT, CORNER; LOT, INTERIOR; LOT, THROUGH.)
   LOT WIDTH.  The dimension of a lot, measured between the side lot lines on
the building line.
   MAJOR STREET.  A collector or arterial street.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION.  Any subdivision not classified as a minor subdivision,
including but not
limited to subdivisions of more than five lots of less than ten acres each, or
any size subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the local
governmental facilities, or the creation of any public improvements.
   MANEUVERING AISLE.  A maneuvering space which serves two or more parking
spaces, such as the area between two rows of parking spaces and/or the driveway
leading to those spaces.
   MANEUVERING SPACE.  An open space in a parking area which:
      (1)   Is immediately adjacent to a parking space;
      (2)   Is used for and/or is necessary for turning, backing or driving
forward a motor vehicle into such parking space; but
      (3)   Is not used for the parking or storage of motor vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A single-family dwelling unit designed and built in a
factory, installed as a permanent residence, which bears a seal certifying that
it was built in compliance with the federal Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards Law 1974 (U.S.C. 5401 et seq.), and which complies with
the following specifications:
      (1)   Shall have been constructed after January 1, 1981 and must exceed
950 square feet of occupied space per I.C. 36-7-4(d);
      (2)   Is attached to a permanent foundation of masonry construction and
has a permanent perimeter enclosure constructed in accordance with the One and
Two Family Dwelling Code;
      (3)   Has wheels, axles and towing chassis removed;
      (4)   Has a pitched roof with a minimum rise of 2/12; and
      (5)   Consists of two or more sections which, when joined, have a minimum
dimension of 20 feet x 47.5 feet in length or width enclosing occupied space.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY.  Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing,
testing and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and
extensive in character; require large sites, open storage and service areas,
extensive services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation; and
normally generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare,
air pollution and water pollution, but not beyond the district boundary.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT.  Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are
usually controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet and free of
objectionable or hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor or dust; and
operating and storing within enclosed structures.
   MAP.  A representation of a part or the whole of the earth’s surface, in
signs and symbols, on a plane surface, at an established scale, with a method
of orientation indicated.
   MARKER.  A stake, pipe, rod, nail or any other object which is not intended
to be a permanent point for record purposes.
   MASTER PLAN.  Refers to the complete plan, or any of its parts, for the
development of areas, prepared by the Commission and adopted in accordance with
I.C. 18-7-5-1, as amended and now known as I.C. 36-7-4-201 et seq. as is now or
hereafter in effect. (Also see COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.)
   MINOR SUBDIVISION.  A division of land into two or more lots, but not more
than five lots of less than ten acres each, fronting an existing street which
is an improved right-of-way maintained by the county (or other local
government), in one calendar year and not requiring new streets, alleys or
roads, nor the extension of municipal utilities, and not affecting the
development of the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property, and not in
conflict with any provision or portion of the comprehensive plan, official map,
zoning ordinance or this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME.  Any vehicle without motive power designated by the
manufacturer or maker with hitch and undercarriage to permit attachment of
axles and wheels, and so designed to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
public streets and highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed as
will permit the vehicle to be used as a single-family dwelling and not
qualifying under the definition of manufactured housing.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  An area of land owned by a single user or group and used
for the parking of two or more mobile homes.
   MONUMENT.  A physical structure which marks the location of a corner or
other survey point.
   MOTEL.  A non-residential building in which lodging is provided and offered
to the public for compensation on a daily or weekly basis. Generally, MOTELS do
not provide permanent living quarters or areas for cooking and eating within
the rental unit.
   MULTI-FAMILY, ATTACHED.  (See ATTACHED MULTI-FAMILY.)
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE.  (See RESIDENCE, MULTI-FAMILY.)
   NON-CONFORMING USE.  Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the
time of passage of this chapter which does not conform after the passage of
this chapter with the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
Existing improvements which do not meet required lot size, setback lines,
height, intensity, off-street parking and loading, signs and other regulations
for the district in which they are situated are NON-CONFORMING USES as defined
herein.
   OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding garages, patios and porches and other accessory
structures.
   OFF-SITE.  Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
   ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE, INDIANA.  The nationally recognized model
building code adopted by the State Department of Fire Prevention and Building
Safety as mandated by 675 I.A.C. 14, and, which includes those supplements and
amendments promulgated by this agency.
   OPEN SPACE.  The total area of all land within parcel boundaries which is
not covered by structures or pavement.
   OPEN SPACE RATIO (OSR).  The open space divided by the floor area of
structures located on the parcel.
   OPEN USE.  (See USE, OPEN.)
   ORDINANCE.  A designated legislative action, however denominated, of a local
government body having the force of law, including an amendment or repeal of
any ordinance.
   OUTSIDE STORAGE.
      (1)   The presence of equipment, materials, goods or other articles
outside of commercial or industrial structures.
      (2)   Outside storage does not include off-street parking, but does
include abandoned vehicles, unregistered vehicles, salvage vehicles and
vehicles awaiting repair if any of the above are left outside overnight.
   OVERHANG.  Any portion of a building structure that extends beyond the
exterior wall of the building without support. OVERHANGS shall not project more
than three feet from the building, and in no case shall be used to shelter an
automobile.
   OWNER.  Any person, group of persons, firm(s), corporation(s) or any other
legal entity having
legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
subdivided under these regulations.
   PARCEL.  A part or portion of land having a legal description formally set
forth in a conveyance together with the boundaries thereof, in order to make
possible its easy identification.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC.  An open area, other than a street or alley, designed
for use or used for the temporary parking of motor vehicles, whether free or
for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients, customers or employees.
   PARKING GARAGE.  A garage, where parking but not repairs are available to
the public.
   PARKING SPACE.  An open space, and portion of the car area, exclusive of
maneuvering aisle and driveway for the parking of a motor vehicle.
   PAVEMENT WIDTH.  The pavement width is measured from far edge of outside
travel lane to the opposite edge of the outside travel lane.
   PERIMETER STREET.  Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION.  Any structural system for transporting loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe capacity of the supporting soil.
   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE.  A permanent perimeter structure system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground, except for necessary openings, constructed in accordance with the One
and Two Family Dwelling Code.
   PERSON.  A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, unit
of government or any other group that acts as a unit, as well as a human being.
   PLACE.  An open, unoccupied, officially designated space other than a street
or alley, permanently reserved for use as the principal means of access to
abutting/adjoining property.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.  A means of land regulation which permits large
scale, unified land development in a configuration and possibly a mix of uses
not otherwise permitted “as of right” under the county zoning ordinance but
requiring under that ordinance or a special ordinance a special review and
approval process.
   PLAT.  A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of land,
either filed or intended to be filed for record.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT.  A tentative map indicating the subdivision or
resubdivision of land, prepared in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter as a basis for consideration prior to the preparation of the final
plat.
   PRIMARY APPROVAL. An approval (or approval with conditions imposed) granted
to a subdivision by the Commission after having determined in a public hearing
that the subdivision complies with the standards prescribed in this chapter
(per I.C. 36-7-4-700 series: Subdivision Control).
   PRIMARY ARTERIAL.  A street intended to move through traffic to and from
such major attractors as central business districts, regional shopping centers,
colleges and/or universities, military installations, major industrial areas
and similar traffic generators within the county; and/or as a route for traffic
between communities; a major thoroughfare.
   PRIMARY STRUCTURE.  (See PRINCIPAL USE BUILDING.)
   PRINCIPAL USE.  The primary use to which the premises are devoted, and the
main purpose for which the premises exist.
   PRINCIPAL USE BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of the lot on which said building is situated. Standards
recognized by the State Administrative Building Council shall be used to
determine whether a given structure constitutes one or more buildings in cases
where ambiguities exist.
   PRIVATE GARAGE.  (See GARAGE, PRIVATE.)
   PRIVATE SCHOOL.  Private pre-primary, primary, grade, high or preparatory
school or academy approved and licensed by the state for educational purposes.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE.  An office of a member of a recognized profession, such
as an architect, attorney, dentist, engineer, physician, surgeon or other such
professional person.
   PROJECT. A lot or parcel of contiguous land to be developed for use or uses
permitted in accordance with the zoning ordinance.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.  An agency or government department acting under the aegis of
and representing an elected or appointed council, commission or other policy-
making or advisory body of federal, state or local government to whom it is
responsible.
   PUBLIC BUILDING.  Any building owned, leased or held by the United States,
the state, the county, a city, town township, any special district, school
district or any other agency or political subdivision of the state or the
United States, which building is used for governmental purposes.
   PUBLIC GARAGE.  (See GARAGE, PUBLIC)
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.  Any drainage ditch, street, highway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian-way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement or other
facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established. (All such
improvements shall be properly bonded.)
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A general term denoting land, property or interest
therein, usually in a strip, acquired for or devoted to a transportation or
transmissions facility.
   PUBLIC USES.  Public parks, schools and administrative, cultural and service
buildings, not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the storage
and maintenance of equipment and material.
   PUBLIC UTILITY.  Any person, firm or corporation duly authorized to furnish
electricity, gas, telephone, telegraph, water or sewage systems to the public
under public regulation.
   REAR LOT LINE.  For an interior or corner lot, this means the lot line that
is opposite the front lot line and farthest from it, except that for a
triangular or other irregularly-shaped lot it means the line ten feet long,
parallel to the front lot line, and wholly within the lot, that is farthest
from the lot line.
   REAR YARD. A yard as defined herein, encompassing the horizontal space
between the nearest foundation of a building to a rear lot line and that rear
lot line, extending to the side lines of the lot, and measured as the shortest
distance from the foundation to the rear lot line. The REAR YARD of a corner
lot shall be that yard at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV).  A temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and
vacation use including, but not limited to the following.
      (1)   CAMPING TRAILER.  A collapsible or folding structure, built on a
chassis with wheels and designed to move on the highway and used for vacation
or travel purpose.
      (2)   MOTOR HOME.  A self-propelled vehicle with living accommodations
constructed as an integral part of the vehicle and used for vacation or travel
purposes.
      (3)   PICK-UP COACH.  A structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis or cut-down car.
      (4)   TRAVEL TRAILER.  A vehicle identified by the manufacturer as a
travel trailer built on a chassis, designed to move on the highway and not
designed or approved for permanent residence, but designed for vacation or
travel purposes.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR.  A land surveyor properly licensed and registered
or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the state.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  An engineer properly licensed and
registered in the state or permitted to practice in the state through
reciprocity.
   REGULATORY FLOOD.  That flood having a peak discharge which can be equaled
or exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year period, as calculated by a
method and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the State Natural
Resources Commission; this flood is equivalent to a flood having a probability
of occurrence of 1% in any given year.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION.  The maximum elevation, as established by the
State Department of Natural Resources, reached by the regulatory flood at the
locations in question relevant to approval of a given subdivision under
consideration.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY.  (See REGULATORY FLOOD.)
   RESIDENCE.  A building or portion thereof, used primarily as a place of
abode for one or more human beings, but not including hotels, lodging or
boarding houses or tourist homes.
   RESIDENCE, MULTI-FAMILY.  A residential building designed for three or more
families, with the number of families in residence not exceeding the number of
dwelling units provided.
   RESIDENCE, RESORT.  A resort area established for temporary or permanent
living.
   RESIDENCE, SINGLE-FAMILY.  A building, on a separate lot, containing one
dwelling unit with a 950 square foot minimum main floor area exclusive of
garages, carports and open porches and has a minimum width of 24 feet.
   RESIDENCE, TWO-FAMILY.  A detached residential building containing two
living units, designed for occupancy by not more than two families.
   RESIDENTIAL BLOCK.  (See BLOCK, RESIDENTIAL.)
   RESORT RESIDENCE.  (See RESIDENCE, RESORT.)
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS.  Limitations of various kinds on the usage of lots or
parcels of land within a subdivision which are proposed by the subdivider, and,
in the case of public health, safety and welfare by the Commission, that are
recorded with the plat run with the land.
   RESUBDIVISION.  A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision
plat if such change
affects any street layout on such map or area reserved thereon for public use,
or any lot line, or setback; or if it affects any map or plan legally recorded
prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  (See PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.)
   ROADS.  (See STREET.)
   SALE OR LEASE.  Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any
possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, device,
intestate succession or transfer of an interest in a subdivision or part
thereof, whether by metes and bounds, deed, contract, plat, map, lease, device,
intestate succession or other written instrument.
   SCREENING. 
      (1)   Either:
         (a)   A strip of at least ten feet wide, densely planted (or having
equivalent natural growth) with shrubs or trees at least four feet high at the
time of planting, of a type that will form a year-round dense screen at least
six feet high; or
         (b)   An opaque wall or barrier or uniformly painted fence at least
six feet high.
      (2)   Either division (1)(a) or (1)(b) above shall be maintained in good
condition at all times and may have no signs affixed to or hung in relation to
the outside thereof except as permitted or required under the zoning ordinance.
Where required by the zoning ordinance a screen shall be installed along or
within the lines of a plot as a protection for adjoining or nearby properties.
Earth berms may be incorporated as part of such screening measures where
appropriate.
   SECONDARY APPROVAL.  The stage of application for formal Area Plan
Commission approval of a final plat of a subdivision the construction of which
has been completed or substantially completed which, if approved and signed by
the designated officials may be submitted to the County Recorder for filing.
   SECONDARY ARTERIAL.  A street intended to collect and distribute traffic in
a manner similar to primary arterials, except that these streets service minor
traffic generating areas such as community-commercial areas, primary and
secondary educational plants, hospitals, major recreational areas, churches and
offices, and/or designed to carry traffic from collector streets to the system
of primary arterials.
   SECTION.  A unit of a manufactured home at least ten feet in width and 30
feet in length.
   SECTIONAL HOME or MODULAR HOME.
      (1)   A structure manufactured in two or more sections or modules and
transported to its permanent location as separate sections or modules. A
sectional/modular home must be installed on a permanent foundation with no
rolling chassis components, and must be at least 24 feet in width.
      (2)   A SECTIONAL/MODULAR HOME is distinguished from a mobile home in
that the running gear, including springs, wheels, axles and other rolling
suspension parts remain a part of a mobile home residence. Such parts have been
removed from a SECTIONAL/MODULAR HOME at the time of placement onto a permanent
foundation.
      (3)   For matters of zoning policy, SECTIONAL/MODULAR HOMES shall be
considered equal to stick-built homes.
   SETBACK.  A line parallel to and equidistant from the relevant lot line
(front, back, side) between which no buildings or structures may be erected as
prescribed in the county zoning ordinance.
   SHOW CAUSE HEARING.  Hearing before the Area Plan Commission members to
present a violation and show cause as to why legal action should or should not
be taken.
   SIDE LOT LINES.  Any lines separating two lots other than front or rear lot
lines.
   SIDE YARD.  The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building to the side lot line and that side lot line, unoccupied other than by
architectural appurtenances projecting not more than 24 inches into that space;
steps or terraces not higher that the level of the first floor of the building;
and open lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies projecting not over 24 inches into that space. The width of the
required SIDE YARD is measured horizontally at 90 degrees with the side lot
line, from the nearest part of the main building.
   SIGN. Any outdoor announcement, declaration, device, demonstration or
insignia used for directions, information, identification or to advertise or
promote any business, product, activity, services or interests.
      (1)   ADVERTISING SIGN.  Any cloth, card, metal, glass, wooden, plastic,
plaster or stone sign or any other sign, device or structure of any character
whatsoever including a statuary, placed on any tree, wall, bush, rock or post.
         (a)   The term PLACED shall include erecting, constructing, posting,
painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving or otherwise
fastening, affixing or making visible in any manner whatsoever.
         (b)   The area of an advertising structure shall be determined as the
area of the largest cross-section of such structure.
         (c)   Neither directional warning nor other signs posted by public
officials in the course of their public duties nor merchandise or materials
being offered for sale shall be construed as advertising signs for the purpose
of this chapter.
         (d)   A sign which directs attention to any business, product,
activity or service which may or may not be located in the same place as the
sign.
      (2)   BILLBOARD.  An off-premises object, device, display, sign or
structure, or part thereof, displayed outdoors or visible from a public way,
which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract attention to
an object, person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event
or location, or to express a point of view, by any means, including words,
letters, figures, design, symbols, advertising flags, fixtures, colors,
illuminations or projected images. Each substantially different face of a
billboard structure shall constitute a separate billboard. Billboards do not
include on-premises commercial or political signage nor small commercial or
non-commercial signs temporarily placed in residential lawns by residents,
owners, contractors, realtors or by or on behalf of political candidates or
issues.
      (3)   BUSINESS SIGN.  A sign which identifies a building or directs
attention to a business product, activity or service manufactured, sold or
offered upon the premises where such sign is located.
      (4)   FACING.  The surface of the sign upon, against or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
      (5)   FREE-STANDING SIGN.  Any sign supported by structure or supports
that are placed on or anchored in the ground and that are independent from any
building or other structure.
      (6)   INCIDENTAL SIGN.  A name plate or sign relating to the lot or use
thereof and designating accessory uses, direction, identification, information
or real estate for sale, rent or lease.
      (7)   PORTABLE SIGN.  A sign which is designed to be transportable.
      (8)   PROJECTING SIGN.  A sign suspended from or supported by a building
structure, or column and projecting out more than 18 inches from the building.
      (9)   SIGN STRUCTURE.  The supports, uprights, bracing and framework for
the sign. In the case of a SIGN STRUCTURE consisting of two or more sides,
where the angle formed between and of the sides (or projection thereof) exceeds
15 degrees, each side shall be considered a separate SIGN STRUCTURE.
      (10)   SIGN SURFACE.  The entire area within a single, continuous
perimeter enclosing all elements of the sign which form an integral part of the
display.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE.  (See RESIDENCE, SINGLE-FAMILY.)
   SOIL SURVEY, GENERAL.  A survey done by a combination of visual inspection
and utilization of existing information about the area which is sufficiently
detailed to delineate soil area of questionable suitability as an adequate
foundation for structures or of questionable suitability for on-site sewage
disposal and areas subject to flooding.
   SOIL SURVEY, OPERATIONAL. A highly detailed analysis of soil characteristics
(e.g., texture,
structure, acidity or alkalinity, permeability, moisture capacity) and
identification of kinds of soil as described and named in a nationwide system.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT.  A special permit issued upon application by the
Board of Zoning Appeals for conducting activities which do not conform to the
zoning for the site.
   SPECIAL USE.  The authorization of a use that is designated as such by this
chapter as being permitted in the district concerned if it meets special
conditions, and upon application, is specifically authorized.
   STATE ACTS.  Such legislative acts of the state as they affect these
regulations.
   STATE PLANE COORDINATE SYSTEM.  A system of plans coordinates, based upon
the Transverse Mercator Projection for the eastern zone of the state,
established by the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey for the state.
   STICK-BUILT HOME or CUSTOM-BUILT HOME.  A permanent residential structure
constructed of building materials at its site, and built on a permanent
foundation.
   STORAGE WAREHOUSE.  A structure or room for the storage of commodities,
materials or goods.
   STREET.  A dedicated public right-of-way, other than an alley, intended for
vehicular traffic, including expressways, parkways, collector streets, primary
thoroughfares, local streets, cul-de-sacs, marginal access streets, roads,
lanes and other public ways.
   STREET, DEAD END.  (See DEAD END STREET.)
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH.  The distance between property lines measured at
right angles to the center line of the street.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences,
billboards and poster panels. (Refer to BUILDING.)
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION.  Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or in the dimensions or
configuration of the roof or exterior walls.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person who:
      (1)   Having a proprietary interest in land, causes it, directly or
indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision;
      (2)   Directly or indirectly sells, leases or develops, or offers to
sell, lease or develop, or advertises for sale, lease or development, any
interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision;
      (3)   Engages directly, or through an agent, in the business of selling,
leasing, developing or offering for sale, lease or development of a subdivision
of any interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision; and
      (4)   Is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct, or
indirect common control with any of the foregoing.
   SUBDIVISION.  The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or if
a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land; provided that a
division of land for agricultural purposes into lots or parcels of ten acres or
more and not involving a new street shall not be deemed a SUBDIVISION. The term
includes RESUBDIVISION and, when appropriate to the contest, shall relate to
the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   SUBDIVISION AGENT.  Any person who represents, or acts for or on behalf of,
a subdivider or developer, in selling, leasing or developing, or offering to
sell, lease or develop any interest, lot, parcel, unit, site or plat in a
subdivision, except an attorney-at-law whose representation of another person
consists solely on rendering legal services, and is not involved in developing,
marketing or selling real property in the subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. (See MAJOR SUBDIVISION.)
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR.  (See MINOR SUBDIVISION.)
   SWIMMING POOL.  A pool, pond, lake or open tank containing at least 18
inches of water at any point and maintained by the owner or manager.
   TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT.  Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and intended to be replaced by a
permanent improvement prior to release of the performance bond or turnaround
improvements at the ends of stub streets intended to be replaced when the
adjoining area is developed and the through street connection made.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN.  The part of the comprehensive plan for the county now or
hereafter adopted, which includes a major thoroughfare plan and sets forth the
general or approximate location, alignment, dimensions, identifications and
classifications of existing and proposed highways and other thoroughfares,
located within the jurisdiction of the Commission.
   THROUGH LOTS.  (See LOTS, THROUGH.)
   TOTAL CAR RATION (TCR).  The total number of parking spaces divided by the
number of living units.
   TOURIST HOME or BED AND BREAKFAST.  (See BED AND BREAKFAST.)
   TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL.
      (1)   A secondary or higher education facility teaching usable skills
that prepares students for jobs in a trade, business or vocation.
      (2)   Secretarial or business school or college conducted as a commercial
enterprise for teaching trades or technical vocations such as instrumental
music, dancing, barbering or hair dressing, drafting, industrial and/or
technical arts.
   TREE.  Any object of natural growth.
   TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE.  (See RESIDENCE, TWO FAMILY.)
   UNNECESSARY CLUTTER.  Items, junk or debris littered or strewn in a heap, or
in a confused and disorderly manner.
   USE.  The nature of employment or occupation of a building, structure or
land for a person’s service, benefit or enjoyment.
   USE, OPEN.  The use of land principally for purposes that do not require a
building, or including a building whose use is unconnected with the use of the
remaining land, or which is incidental to the use of the open land. This
definition shall include, but not be limited to, the following: parking
facilities, storage, open space and natural areas.
   USE VARIANCE. The approval of a use other than that prescribed by this
chapter. Changes of allowed uses are not permitted by this chapter except by
zoning map amendment.
   VARIANCE.  A modification of the specific requirements of this chapter
granted upon request and application by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   VEHICLES, JUNK.  (See JUNK VEHICLES.)
   VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS.  A triangular space at the street corner of
a corner lot, free from any kind of visual obstruction between the heights of
three and 12 feet above the established street grade for the purpose of
observing activity which might obstruct or endanger traffic safety.
   YARD.  A space of a lot which is open, unoccupied and unobstructed by
structures, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT.  (See FRONT YARD.)
   YARD, REAR.  (See REAR YARD.)
   YARD SALES.  A sale of items belonging to the resident of the household or
multi-family households.
   YARD, SIDE.  (See SIDE YARD.)
   ZONE MAP.  The words ZONE MAP refer to the current editions of maps entitled
“Jennings County, Indiana Zone Map,” and “Jennings County, Indiana
Jurisdictional Area and Zone Map,” with amendments, and are on file and
available for public inspection in the Area Plan Commission Office of the
county.
   ZONING.  A police power measure, enacted by the governing body of local
governments, in which the community is divided into districts or zones within
which permitted and special uses are established as are regulations governing
lot size, building standards, placement and other development standards.
Requirements vary from district to district, but they must be uniform within
ZONING districts. The ZONING ordinance consists of two parts: a narrative text
and a map.
   ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The person employed and delegated the primary
responsibility of enforcing this chapter and issuing relevant permits.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006; Ord. 2021-03A, passed 3-18-2021)
§ 153.004  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any land within the jurisdiction of the Commission subdivided in
violation of the terms of this chapter is declared to be a common nuisance and
the owner of such land shall be liable for maintaining a common nuisance which
may be restrained, enjoined or abated in any appropriate action or proceeding.
   (B)   The Commission may institute an injunction suit in the Circuit Court
of the county to restrain any person or governmental unit from violating the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Commission may institute an injunction suit requesting an
individual or governmental unit to be directed to remove a structure erected in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, or to make the same comply with
its terms. If the Commission is successful in its suit, the respondent shall
bear the costs of the action.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)
PROCEDURES
§ 153.015  PRE-APPLICATION.
   Previous to the filing of an application for conditional approval of a
preliminary plat, the subdivider is encouraged to consult informally with the
Executive Director as provided in §§
153.030 through
153.032.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.016  PROCEDURE FOR CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF PRIMARY (PRELIMINARY) PLAT.
   (A)   A subdivider desiring conditional approval of a preliminary plat of
any land lying within the jurisdiction of the Commission shall submit to the
Executive Director a written application for a certificate of approval and nine
copies of the preliminary plat. The application shall specify the intent of the
subdivider with respect to land use, drainage, sewage disposal, water supply,
street improvements, the manner in which the proposed subdivision is
coordinated with the Comprehensive Plan and its provisions and specifically
with the requirements of the thoroughfare plan; school and recreation sites and
other developments existing and proposed in the vicinity; what, if any,
restrictions exist or are to be placed on the property to be subdivided and the
expected dates of development of the subdivision or sections thereof. No land
shall be subdivided unless it is in conformance with a land use control
resolution or with the zoning ordinance as now or hereafter adopted. (Refer to
§
154.051 for residential zoning and regulations.)
   (B)   At the time of filing an application for tentative approval of a plat,
the application shall be accompanied by cash, check or money order, for each
lot in the proposed subdivision, payable to the County Area Plan Commission
Non-Reverting Funds, to cover the cost incurred by the Commission in checking
and verifying the plat. Minor subdivision may be reviewed in house by the
Executive Director without advertisement, public notice or the need to be
brought before the Board. The individual parcels in a minor subdivision can be
described by metes and bounds description. A minor subdivision (preliminary and
final) that goes before the County Area Plan Commission has a charge for each
lot in the proposed subdivision.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the application, the Executive Director, if he or she
determines that the standards and requirements of this chapter have been met,
shall:
      (1)   Under §
153.018, a minor subdivision plat may be reviewed in house by the Executive
Director, unless they are required to go before the Area Plan Commission;
      (2)   Set a date for a hearing before the Commission or with the
Executive Director for in house approval;
      (3)   Notify the applicant in writing; and
      (4)   Notify by general publication, any person or governmental unit
having a probable interest in the proposed plat.
   (D)   The cost of publishing the notice of hearing shall be paid by the
applicant prior to the approval of the preliminary plat. At least ten days
before the date of the hearing, the Executive Director shall refer three copies
of the preliminary plat to the Commission, one copy to the County Surveyor, one
copy to the Clerk-Treasurer of North Vernon or one copy to the Clerk-Treasurer
of Vernon as applicable, one copy to the Superintendent of the Consolidated
School Corporation, and one copy to the Board of County Commissioners.
   (E)   If the Executive Director determines that the standards in this
chapter have not been met, he or she shall reject the application and provided
the petitioner with a written specification of the items of non-compliance. If,
upon a second submission, made not sooner than 30 days after the first, the
application is again rejected by the Executive Director, the applicant may
request a hearing before the Commission.
      (1)   If, after the hearing, the Commission determines that the
application and plat comply with the standards set forth in this chapter, it
shall approve and fix the Commission’s seal upon the plat, together with a
certificate disclosing that proper public notice of the hearing has been given
and that a majority of the Commission members concur in its approval. The
certificate shall be signed by the President of the Commission and be attested
to by the Secretary of the Commission. The plat shall be submitted to the
appropriate governing body, being the county, the City of North Vernon or the
Town of Vernon for their review before the final plat process.
      (2)   If the Commission disapproves the plat, it shall set forth its
reasons in its own records and provide the applicant with a copy.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.017  SECONDARY (FINAL) PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   The Commission shall consider approval of a final plat only after:
   (A)   A determination by the Commission that the final plat substantially
conforms with the preliminary plat as approved and with all changes permitted
and all requirements imposed as a condition of its approval;
   (B)   An accurate survey of the subdivision has been made and marked on the
ground so that streets, blocks, lots and other divisions may be identified;
   (C)   Sewer and water mains to serve each lot, or in lieu of water main
installation, a contract between the subdivider and the City of North Vernon or
the Town of Vernon or a rural water authority, for said installation, and
grading to the full width of all streets and alleys shall have been
accomplished;
   (D)   If municipal sewer and water are not required, the installation of all
other improvements as required in this chapter;
   (E)   Or, in lieu of divisions (C) and (D) above, a bond, provided by the
subdivider which:
      (1)   Runs to the county;
      (2)   Is in an amount determined by the Commission to be sufficient to
complete the improvements and installations in compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Provides surety satisfactory to the Commission; and
      (4)   Specifies the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
   (F)   Any funds received from these bonds shall be used by the county only
for the purpose of making the improvements and installations for which the bond
was provided. The proceeds of the bond may be used for these purposes without
appropriation. If the improvements or installations are to be made within the
city, the town, or a participating town, the county shall transmit the proceeds
of the bond to such city or town which shall complete the improvements and
installations in conformance with this chapter and with plans and
specifications approved by the Commission. Cash, surety or irrevocable letters
of credit are all acceptable. Property bonds will not be acceptable;
   (G)   If the subdivider elects to provide the improvements and installations
required in this chapter before he or she applies for final plat approval and
it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commission that all applicable
conditions and requirements of this chapter have been met, and if the final
plat conforms substantially to the preliminary plat as approved, the Commission
shall have no other course than to give final plat approval within 30 days
after application;
   (H)   Upon the completion of all required improvements and installations,
and prior to the acceptance thereof for public maintenance by the county or
participating city or town, the subdivider shall provide a three-year bond,
with himself or herself or some other person satisfactory to the Commission as
principal, which shall:
      (1)   Run to the county, or the participating city or town having the
legal responsibility for the maintenance of said improvements and
installations;
      (2)   Be in an amount equal to 10% of the cost, as estimated by the
Commission, of all improvements and installations as required by this chapter
excluding however, the cost of the public, group and individual water supply
improvements and installations required by this chapter. Nothing contained in
this division (H)(2) shall, however, exclude any of the said improvements and
installations from requirements and coverage of this bond as specified in
divisions (H)(4) and (H)(5) below;
      (3)   Provide surety satisfactory to the Commission;
      (4)   Warrant the workmanship and all materials used in the construction,
installation and completions of said improvements; warrant the installations to
be of good quality and to have been constructed and completed in a workmanlike
manner in accordance with the standards, specifications and requirements of
this chapter and with plans and specifications approved by the Commission; and
      (5)   Provide that for a period of three years after the date of the
acceptance of the improvements, the applicant will, at his or her own expense,
make all repairs to said improvements and installations, or the foundations
thereof, which may become necessary by reason of improper workmanship or
materials, but not including any damage to said improvements and installations
resulting from forces or circumstances beyond the control of the applicant or
occasioned by the inadequacy of the standard specifications or requirements of
this chapter.
   (I)   Installation of improvements shall be inspected by the county or the
participating city or town within whose territorial boundaries the subdivision
is located. Each participating city or town may designate by resolution that
the Executive Director inspect, on their behalf, said installations and
improvements. Such inspections shall be required in all instances regardless of
whether the work is performed before or after the final plat approval. Failure
of the subdivider to request inspection at proper and reasonable intervals
during construction of the improvements and installations as required may be
cause for either denial of final plat approval and/or denial of acceptance for
maintenance by the county or the participating city or town; and
   (J)   As built plans of all underground public utilities shall be filed by
the subdivider with the appropriate utility and/or governmental agency and the
fact of said filing certified in writing to the Executive Director.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.018  MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   A minor subdivision plat, as defined in this chapter and which
complies in all other respects with the provisions of this chapter, may be
reviewed in house by the Executive Director without advertisement, public
notice or the need to be brought before the Board.
   (B)   The individual parcels in minor subdivision can be described by metes
and bounds description. A minor subdivision (preliminary and final) that goes
before the County Area Plan Commission has a charge for each lot in the
proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)
PLATS AND DATA
§ 153.030  PRE-APPLICATION PLANS AND DATA.
   (A)   General subdivision information. General subdivision information shall
describe or outline the existing conditions of the site and the proposed
development as necessary to supplement the drawings required below. This
information may include data on existing covenants, land characteristics and
available community facilities and utilities; information describing the
subdivision proposal, such as number of residential lots, typical lot width and
depth, business areas, playgrounds, park areas and other public areas, proposed
protective covenants and proposed utilities and street improvements.
   (B)   Location map. The location map shall show the relationship of the
proposed subdivision to existing community facilities which serve or influence
it; development name and location; main traffic arteries; public transportation
lines; shopping centers; elementary and high schools; parks and playgrounds;
title; scale, north arrow and date.
   (C)   Sketch plan. The sketch plan on a topographic survey shall show in
simple sketch form the proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in
relation to existing conditions. The sketch plan may be a free hand pencil
sketch made directly on a print of the topographic survey. In any event, the
sketch plan shall include existing topographic data, and such data as the
Commission determines is necessary.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.031  PLATS AND DATA FOR CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat shall be prepared in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and shall be presented as follows.
   (A)   The plat shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch on a sheet,
or sheets, 24 inches by 36 inches in size, except that when the drawing at that
scale requires more than two sheets, the plat may be drawn at a scale of 100
feet to one inch.
   (B)   The plat shall include a vicinity key map at an appropriate scale with
a layout of the proposed subdivision and all existing subdivision, street and
tract lines and acreage parcels of land immediately adjoining the proposed
subdivision and between it and the nearest existing thoroughfares. It shall
show how streets and alleys in the proposed subdivision may connect with
existing and proposed streets and alleys in the contiguous subdivisions or in
undeveloped property to produce the most advantageous development of the entire
neighborhood.
   (C)   The plat shall contain the following information:
      (1)   General.
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision;
         (b)   Location by section, township and range, or by other legal
description;
         (c)   Name and address of subdivider;
         (d)   Name and address and seal of registered land surveyor preparing
the plat; and
         (e)   Scale of plat, graphic scale, north point and date.
      (2)   Existing conditions.
         (a)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision indicated by solid heavy
line;
         (b)   Location, width and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways; railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and
other public open spaces, location of permanent buildings or structures and
section and municipal corporation lines within or adjacent to the tract;
         (c)   In case of replat, all descriptive lines of the original plat
being vacated shall be shown by dotted lines in their proper position in
relation to the new arrangement of the plat, the new plat being clearly shown
in solid lines;
         (d)   Location, size and invert elevation of sanitary storm and
combine sewers; location and size of water mains, location of gas lines, fire
hydrants; if water mains and sewers are not on or adjacent to the tract, the
direction, distance to and size shall be shown;
         (e)   The location, width and purpose of easements;
         (f)   Existing zoning on proposed subdivision and adjacent tracts;
         (g)   If deemed necessary by the Commission, contours based on not
more than five foot nor less than one foot vertical intervals;
         (h)   Sub-surface conditions on the tract, location and results of
tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock and ground water conditions,
depth to ground water (unless test pits are dry to a depth of seven feet),
location and result of soil percolation tests if individual sewage disposal
systems are proposed. Percolation tests as described in Bulletin No. S.E. 8,
Current issue, State Board of Health, shall be made as directed by the
Commission and the results, certified by a registered professional engineer,
sanitarian or professional consulting soil scientist, shall accompany the plat;
and
         (i)   Other conditions on the tract such as watercourses, marshes,
rock outcroppings, wooded areas including intermittent streams and drainage
ways.
      (3)   Proposed conditions.
         (a)   Layout of streets, their names and widths and widths of alleys,
crosswalks and easements. The names of streets shall conform so far as
practicable to the names of streets on the same approximate alignments existing
in the vicinity of the subdivision;
         (b)   Layout, dimensions and number of lots, gross acreage, total
acreage of lots, lineal feet of streets;
         (c)   Parcels of land to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for
public use or set aside for the use of property owners in the subdivision. Land
dedicated or reserved for parks or other public uses shall be set forth and
described in the articles of dedication or reservation and shall also be shown
on the plat under the appropriate heading, such as “Park Land” or “Out Lot for
Public Use” on the plat thereof; and
         (d)   Building setback lines.
      (4)   Other preliminary plans. When required by the Commission, the
preliminary plat shall be accompanied by profiles showing existing ground
surface and proposed street grades, including extension for a reasonable
distance beyond the limits of the proposed subdivision; typical cross-sections
of the proposed grading, roadway and sidewalk; and preliminary plans of
proposed sanitary and storm water sewers with grades and sizes indicated. All
elevations shall be on the state plane coordinate system.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.032  PLATS AND DATA FOR FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   After approval of the preliminary plat and the fulfillment of all the
requirements and standards of this chapter, the final plat shall be drawn in
ink on tracing cloth, mylar or equal, on sheets of the same size and scale as
required for the preliminary. Six black-line or blueprint reproductions and the
reproducible transparency of the final plat shall be submitted to the Executive
Director at least 14 days prior to the date of the Commission meeting at which
it is to be considered.
   (B)   The final plat may include all or part of the approved preliminary
plat and shall show the following:
      (1)   Preliminary control points, approved by the Commission, or
descriptions and “ties” to such control points, to which all dimensions,
angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referred;
      (2)   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements and
other rights-of-way, and property lines of residential lots and other sites;
with accurate dimensions, deflections angles or bearings, and radii, arcs and
central angles of all curves;
      (3)   Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-way;
      (4)   Location, dimensions and purpose of any easements;
      (5)   Number to identify each lot or site;
      (6)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated
or reserved;
      (7)   Minimum building setback line on all lots and other sites;
      (8)   Location and description of monuments;
      (9)   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted land
by record name, date and number;
      (10)   Certification and seal by registered land surveyor certifying to
accuracy of survey and plat;
      (11)   Certification of title showing that applicant is the land owner;
      (12)   Statement by owner dedicating streets, rights-of-way and any sites
for public uses;
      (13)   Title, scale, north arrow and date;
      (14)   A certificate for execution by the Commission;
      (15)   An acknowledgment certificate signed by a notary public;
      (16)   Cross-sections and profiles of streets showing grades approved by
the Commission;
      (17)   Profiles shall be drawn to standard scales and elevations and
shall be based on the state plane coordinate system;
      (18)   Protective covenants in form for recording; and
      (19)   Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements or dedications
as may be required by the Commission in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)
VARIANCES AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 153.045  HARDSHIP.
   Where the Board of Zoning Appeals finds that extraordinary hardships may
result from strict compliance with these regulations, it may vary or modify the
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
served; provided that such variation will not have the effect of nullifying the
intent and purpose of the comprehensive plan or this chapter. (Refer to §
154.033 for variances.)
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.046  CONDITIONS.
   In granting variances and modifications, the Commission may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements so varied or modified.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.047  LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS.
   The standards and requirements of those regulations may be modified by the
Commission in the case of a plan and program for a complete community, or a
neighborhood unit, which, in the judgment of the Commission, provide adequate
public spaces and improvement for the circulation, recreation, light, air and
service needs of the tract when fully developed and populated, and which also
provide such covenants or other legal provisions as will assure conformity to
and achievement of the plan.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)
CERTIFICATES
§ 153.060  CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   Each final plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall contain or be
accompanied by the following certificate, acknowledgements and descriptions in
substantially the following terms as set forth below in this section and §§
153.061 through
153.065.
   Certificate of Approval
   Under the authority provided by the Indiana Code and after proper public
notice of the hearing was published, this plat was given final approval by a
majority of the members of the Area Plan Commission of Jennings County at a
meeting held                                         ,                .
Area Plan Commission of Jennings County   
                                                     President
                                                     Secretary
   SEAL
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.061  LAND SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE.
   Each final plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall carry a
certificate signed by a registered professional land surveyor in substantially
the following form:
      “I,                                                          hereby
certify that I am a Registered Professional Land Surveyor of the State of
Indiana; that this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me on      
                            ,             ; that all the monuments shown
thereon actually exist, and that their location, size, type and material are
accurately shown, and comply with the provisions of the Subdivision Control
Ordinance.”
      SEAL                                                                    
           
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.062  LEGAL DESCRIPTION CERTIFICATE.
   The final plat submitted to the Commission for the approval shall contain a
metes and bounds legal description prepared by the registered professional land
surveyor of the outside boundary of the completed survey.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.063  ACKNOWLEDGMENT CERTIFICATE.
   State of Indiana
   County of Jennings
   Before me, the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared                                                        
and each separately and severally acknowledged the execution of the foregoing
instrument as his or her voluntary act and deed, for the purposes expressed
therein.
   WITNESS my hand and Notarial Seal this            day of                    
          ,                 .
   SEAL
                                                                              
                 
                                       Notary Public
My Commission Expires                                 ,                 .
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.064  DEDICATION CERTIFICATE.
   Each Final Plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall carry a deed
of dedication, either of said Final Plat or incorporated therein by reference,
in substantially the following form:
   “We, the undersigned owners of the real estate shown and described herein,
do hereby lay off, plat and subdivide said real estate in accordance with the
herein plat.
   This subdivision shall be known and designated as                          
                    , an addition to the City - Town - Township, Jennings
County, State of Indiana. All streets and alleys and public open spaces shown
and not heretofore dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the public.
   Front and side yard building setback lines are hereby established as shown
on this plat, between which lines and the property lines of the streets, there
shall be erected or maintained no building of structures.
   Easements for installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage
facilities are reserved as shown on the recorded plat over the rear six feet of
each lot. Within these easements, no structure, planting or other material
shall be placed or permitted to remain which may damage or interfere with the
installation and maintenance of utilities or which may change the direction of
flow of drainage channels in the easements, or which may obstruct or retard the
flow of water through drainage channels in the easements. The easement area of
each lot and all improvements in it shall be maintained continuously by the
owner of the lot, except for those improvements for which a public authority or
utility is responsible.
   The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right
to cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof
erected or maintained in violation hereof, is dedicated to the public, and
reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and to
their heirs and assigns.”
   WITNESS OUR HANDS AND SEALS THIS            day of                          
    ,           .
                                                                              
                                                       
   Signature
                                                                              
                                                       
   Signature
                                                                              
                                                       
   Signature
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.065  OTHER CERTIFICATES.
   Other certificates, affidavits, endorsements or documents may be required by
the Commission in the enforcement of these regulations.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.080  GENERALLY.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided for residential use, if such land is
considered by the Commission to be unsuitable for such use by reason of
flooding or improper drainage, or objectionable earth or rock formations,
topology or other features harmful to the health, safety and welfare of future
residents and the community as a whole. (Refer to §
154.051 for residential regulations.)
   (B)   The Commission may require either a general or operational soil
survey, with interpretations, where it is not readily apparent from existing
information that the land to be subdivided is not subject to flooding or does
not contain poor drainage characteristics. If required, the survey shall be
conducted by a qualified person or agency acceptable to the Commission. In the
event that the Commission finds the land to be subdivided unacceptable due to
results of the soils survey, the Commission shall not approve the plat. The
Commission may, however, prescribe conditions that the subdivider must meet to
obtain approval and these conditions may be incorporated into an agreement
between the Commission and the subdivider.
   (C)   All proposed subdivisions shall conform to the major thoroughfare plan
as is now or may be set forth hereafter. Whenever any tract to be subdivided
embraces any part of the major thoroughfares plan, that part of such public way
shall be platted by the subdivider in the location and of the width indicated
on the major thoroughfares plan, or as the Commission may require. Where
streets are not shown in the major thoroughfares plan, the arrangements of
streets in a subdivision shall provide for the continuation or projection of
existing principal streets in surrounding areas or conform to a plan of the
neighborhood approved and adopted by the Commission.
   (D)   Spite strips of a non-build area to prevent adjacent property owners
from connecting to rights-of-way, roads, utilities or easements shall not be
allowed in any existing or new development.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.081  STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   All streets and alleys shall be completed to grades shown in plans,
profiles and cross-sections provided by the subdivider, prepared by a
registered professional engineer or registered land surveyor and approved by
the Commission. Street width shall be measured from gutter line to gutter line
where curbs or curb and gutter are provided.
      (2)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the
dimensions shown in approved cross-sections. The work shall be performed as
prescribed in Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and
Maintenance, current issue, of the State Highway Commission.
      (3)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of
all streets shall be correlated to existing and planned streets, existing
topography, public convenience and safety and in their appropriate relation to
the proposed use of the land to be served by such streets.
      (4)   No major subdivision shall be constructed off of a non-paved or
gravel road. (See Comprehensive Plan Chapter VI Land Use Patterns).
      (5)   Base blacktop shall be installed prior to 20% completion of the
subdivision and the final surface shall be laid out before 80% completion of
the subdivision. Sidewalks may be built along with construction of houses until
75% of the houses have been built, and then the sidewalk must be completed
throughout the development.
      (6)   Minor streets shall be laid out so that their use by through
traffic will be discouraged.
      (7)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
thoroughfare, a railroad right-of-way or limited access highway right-of-way,
the Commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side
of such right-of-way at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of the
intervening land, as for park purposes in residential districts or for
commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distances
shall be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach grades and
future grade separations. The Commission may require that control of said
intervening land strips be dedicated to the county or to participating cities
or towns under conditions approved by the Commission. The said strips shall be
maintained by the involved governmental unit from the date of dedication.
      (8)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
street as shown in the Major Thoroughfares Plan, the Commission may require
marginal access streets; reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a
non-access reservation along the rear property line having a minimum width or
ten feet; deep lots with rear service ways, or such other treatment as may be
necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford
separation of through and local traffic.
      (9)   (a)   A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between
reverse curves on major, secondary and collector streets.
         (b)   All minor streets shall have a tangent of at least 50 feet long
on reverse curves.
      (10)   (a)   Half-streets and half-alleys shall be prohibited.
         (b)   Whenever a half-street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided,
the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
   (B)   Alleys.
      (1)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts
except that the Commission may waive this requirement if other provisions are
made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading and parking
consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
      (2)   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential areas except where
topographical or other conditions may necessitate their use.
      (3)   (a)   Alley intersections with sharp changes in alignment shall be
avoided, but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit
safe vehicular movement.
         (b)   Minimum radius at street intersections shall be 20 feet.
      (4)   Dead end alleys shall be prohibited except when provided with a 40-
foot outside turning radius at the dead end.
   (C)   Additional design standards.
      (1)   In addition, streets and alley design standards shall conform to
the requirements of Tables 4-1, 4-2 and 4-3 as shown on the following pages.
      (2)   Refer to Figure 4-1 below for a graphical interpretation of a
street design section.
   Figure 4-1: Street Design Section
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b536aff2e9996e3d3d9612f90e3fd44d231420ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-975.jpg]
 
   Table 4-1
   STREET DESIGN STANDARDS
   TYPE OF STREET             DESIGN STANDARDS
                              Plans, profiles and cross-sections in accordance
   ARTERIAL, MAJOR, MINOR Awith the road classification or as determined by
   LOCAL COLLECTORS        the Commission
                                 Development Density
                              Low Medium High
   TYPE OF STREET                             DESIGN STANDARDS
                                              Plans, profiles and cross-
                                              sections in accordance with the
   ARTERIAL, MAJOR, MINOR AND              road classification or as
   LOCAL COLLECTORS                        determined by the Commission
                                                 Development Density
                                              Low         Medium High
Residential Collector (Arterial/Major):
   Minimum centerline radius               350         350    500
   Minimum sight distance (ft.)            300         300    300
   Pavement width (ft.) (min. 12 ft. lanes)24          24     24
   Right-of-way (ft.) (min.)               60          70     80
   Sidewalk distance from curb face        10          10     10
   Sidewalk width (ft.)                    5           5      5
   Type of curb (V- vertical face)         V           V      V
Residential Collector (Minor/Local)
   Alley right-of-way and pavement width   25/12       30/16  50/20
(ft.)
   Maximum cul-de-sac length (ft.)         800         600    500
   Maximum grade                           Level 8%,   8%     8%
                                              Rolling 10%
   Minimum centerline radius (ft.)         250         350    350
   Minimum cul-de-sac curb radius (ft.)    40          40     40
   Minimum cul-de-sac radius (right-of-way 50          50     50
ft.)
   Minimum grade                           0.5%        0.5%   0.5%
   Minimum sight distance (ft.)            200         200    300
   Pavement width (ft.) (traveled way) (1) 20          24     24
   Right-of-way (ft.)                      50          60     60
   Sidewalk distance from curb face (ft.)  0 or 4      4      6
   Sidewalk width (ft.)*                   4           5      6
   Type of curb (2)
V-Vertical face                               O           R      R
R-Roll type
O-None
*   Installation of paved sidewalks on at least one side of the street shall be
required, in all major subdivisions. the park, railroad or other uses makes a
sidewalk non-essential. (See § 153.108 for sidewalk improvements.)
 
NOTE: Pavement widths are measured from face of gutter to face of gutter (or
from the edge of the travel lane to the edge of travel lane.)
 
(1)   On street parking - Increase ten feet on each side.
(2)   Per design - Rural areas may use shoulder and open drainage ditches.
 
   TABLE 4-2
   INTERSECTION DESIGN STANDARDS
 
INTERSECTION DESIGN                     ALL DEVELOPMENT DENSITIES
Clear sight distance (length along each 30 mph = 200 feet
approach leg-ft.)                       40 mph = 300 feet
                                        Others per A.A.S.H.T.D. design
Minimum angle of intersection           80 degrees (90 degrees preferred)
Minimum centerline offset of adjacent
intersections (street jogs-ft.)         300 feet
Arterial/major collector                150 feet
Local collector                         200 feet
Minor collector
Minimum curb radius (ft.)               50 feet
Arterial/major collector                25 feet
Local collector                         40 feet
Minor collector
Vertical alignment within area          2% maximum
 
   TABLE 4-3
   DESIGN CHARACTERISTICS OF STREET AND ALLEY PAVEMENTS
PAVEMENT TYPE AND ARTERIAL/MAJOR MINOR COLLECTOR RURAL/LOCAL COLLECTOR ALLEY
MATERIALS*        COLLECTOR
                                                 ARTERIAL/ MINOR     RURAL/
PAVEMENT TYPE AND MATERIALS*                     MAJOR     COLLECTOR LOCAL     ALLEY
                                                 COLLECTOR           COLLECTOR
Flexible
   HMA asphalt - base or compacted Aggregate  12 in.    8 in.     8 in.     6 in.
(#53)
   HMA asphalt - intermediate                 2-1/2 in. 2-1/2 in. 2-1/2 in. 0
   HMA asphalt - surface                      1-1/2 in. 1-1/2 in. 1 in.     1-1/
                                                                               2 in.
      Total thickness**                    16 in.    12 in.    11-1/     8 in.
                                                                     2 in.
Rigid
   Portland cement concrete                   8 in.     7 in.     6 in.     6 in.
   Sub-base (aggregate)                       4 in.     4 in.     4 in.     4 in.
      Total thickness                      12 in.    11 in.    10 in.    10
                                                                               in.
*    Materials per current State Department of Transportation specifications and
interim specifications.
**   Roadway section to be constructed on approved compacted sub-grade.
 
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.082  EASEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Easements centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided
for drainage and utilities where necessary and shall be at least five feet wide
on both sides of the property lines.
      (2)   Easements shall generally be continuous to the street at the end of
the block to connect with adjoining blocks in the shortest direct line.
   (B)   (1)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided an adequate storm water easement or
drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such
watercourse and such further width of construction, or both, as will be
adequate for the purpose.
      (2)   Minimum easement width shall include the 100-year flood area per
FIRM maps.
   (C)   (1)    The use of an easement to get to any tract of land divided off
of another shall be discouraged.
      (2)   Any tracts created off of an easement shall be approved by the
Executive Director. If necessary, the director may bring the survey before the
Area Plan Commission for review and/or approval.
      (3)   All easements shall be a minimum of 50 feet wide and each parcel be
limited to one access easement.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006; Ord. 2021-03A, passed 3-18-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.083  BLOCKS.
   (A)   The width of blocks shall be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots,
except where reverse frontage on a major thoroughfare is required.
   (B)   Where effective use of land does not require otherwise, blocks in
residential subdivisions shall not exceed 1,600 feet in length.
   (C)   (1)   In the event of block length exceeding 1,000 feet where the
blocks are not arranged in the direction of natural pedestrian and traffic
flow, a crosswalk or pedestrian way not less than ten feet in width may be
required near the center and entirely across any block to provide circulation
or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other
community facilities.
      (2)   The pedestrian way shall be dedicated and paved to a width of at
least five feet.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.084  LOTS.
   (A)   (1)   Residential lots shall in no case be less than 80 feet in width
at the building line, nor contain less than 10,000 square feet in area.
      (2)   See §
154.051 Table 6-1 for detailed lot information.
   (B)   (1)   Corner lots shall be 15 feet wider than the minimum required or
20% larger in total area.
      (2)   See §
154.051 Figure 6-4 for a visual of a corner lot)
   (C)   (1)   Residential lots not served by public sewer and water shall be
not less than 150 feet in width at the building line nor less than one acre
(43,560 sq. ft.) in area.
      (2)   Where there is no public sewer but public water is provided,
residential lots shall be not less than 150 feet in width and shall contain not
less than one acre (43,560 sq. ft.) in area.
      (3)   Larger lots may be required.
      (4)   The Commission may approve the granting of exceptions to this
provision where lots are to be used for commercial or industrial purposes.
   (D)   (1)   The depth to width ratio of the useable area, i.e., the
remainder of the lot after the exclusion of the area which is not unusable for
normal building service, recreational or similar activities by reason of the
existence of geologic, topography drainage or other similar conditions of a lot
in a residential district shall be a maximum of 6.0 to 1.0 and a minimum of
two-thirds to one except where a variance becomes necessary for the purpose of
using odd shaped parcels (see §
154.051).
      (2)   Depth and width of properties reserved for commercial and
industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for off-street service and
parking facilities required by the type of use and development contemplated
(see §
154.052 Commercial Zoning and §
154.053 Industrial Zoning for detailed lot ratios).
         (3)   See Figure 4-1: Depth to Width Ratio in the zoning ordinance for
an example.
   (E)   Side lines of all lots, so far as possible, shall be at right angles
or ratios to the street line.
   (F)   Every lot shall abut on a public street.
   (G)   (1)   Double frontage (through) lots shall be avoided except where
essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
      (2)   A planting screen easement of at least ten feet in width, across
which there shall be no access, shall be provided along the line of lots
abutting such traffic arteries or other disadvantageous use.
      (3)   See Figure 4-2 below for a visual of a through lot.
   (H)   Where larger than normal lots are proposed, they shall be of such
shape and dimensions that future streets may be platted along lot lines.
   (I)   (1)   Lots shall be numbered consecutively throughout the entire
subdivision.
      (2)   See Figure 4-2 for a visual of lot numbering.
   Figure 4-2: Lot and Frontage Examples
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b536aff2e9996e3d3d9612f90e3fd44d231420ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-979.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.085  PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public use shown in
the Comprehensive Plan is located in whole or in part in a subdivision, the
Commission may require the reservation of such area for a period of time not to
exceed five years from the date of recording.
   (B)   Where deemed essential by the Commission upon consideration of a
particular type of development proposed in the subdivision and especially in
large-scale neighborhood unit developments not anticipated in the Comprehensive
Plan, the Commission may require the reservation for a reasonable period of
time, not to exceed five years from the date of recording, of such areas or
sites of a character, extent and location suitable to the needs created by such
development for schools, parks and other neighborhood and community purposes.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.086  NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The street and lot layout of a non-residential subdivision shall
conform generally to the Comprehensive Plan as is now or hereafter adopted, in
whole or in part, and specifically with that part of the plan which deals with
zoning, land use and thoroughfares. (Refer to §
154.052 for commercial zoning and regulations, and §
154.053 for industrial zoning and regulations.)
   (B)   Non-residential subdivisions shall include industrial tracts, and may
include neighborhood and community commercial tracts.
   (C)   In addition to the principles and standards in this chapter which are
appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the following principles and
standards shall be observed.
      (1)   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimension
to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      (2)   Street right-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereon.
      (3)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Commission for street,
curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction and for the installation of
public utilities, including water, sewer and storm drainage.
      (4)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from the proposed non-residential subdivisions, including the provision of
extra depth in parcels backing upon existing or potential residential
development and provisions for a permanently landscaped buffer strip where
necessary.
      (5)   Subdivisions for proposed commercial development shall take into
account and specifically designate all areas proposed for vehicular circulation
and parking, for pedestrian circulation and for buffer strips and other
landscaping.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.100  MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Monuments shall be of stone, recast concrete or concrete poured in
place with minimum dimensions for four inches by four inches by 30 inches. They
shall be marked on top with an iron or copper dowel set flush with the top of
the monument and deeply scored on top with a cross. Markers shall consist of
galvanized iron pipes or steel bars at least 30 inches long and not less than
five-eighths of an inch in diameter.
   (B)   Monuments and markers shall be placed so that the center of the bar or
marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be
marked, and shall be set so that the top of the monument or marker is level
with the finished grade.
   (C)   Monuments shall be set at the intersection of all lines forming angles
in the boundary of the subdivision and at the intersection of street property
lines.
   (D)   Markers shall be set at the beginning and ending of all curves along
street property lines, at all points where lot lines intersect curves, either
front or rear, at all angles in property lines of lots, and at all other lot
corners not established by a monument.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.101  STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Streets and alleys shall be completed to grades shown on plans, profiles and
cross-sections prepared by a registered professional engineer or registered
land surveyor, and approved by the Commission. Elevations shall be based on the
state plane coordinate system.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.102  STORM AND SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   General requirements. The Commission shall not recommend for approval
any subdivision plat, rezoning or site development permit which does not make
adequate provision for storm or flood water runoff channels or basins. The
storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent of any sanitary
sewer system. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by methods
approved by the Commission, and a copy of the design computations shall be
submitted along with the plans. Inlets shall be provided so that surface water
is not carried across or around any intersection, nor for a distance of more
than 600 feet in the gutter or when the encroachment of storm water into the
street disrupts traffic. When calculations indicate that curb capacities are
exceeded at a point, no further allowance shall be made for flow beyond that
point and catch basins or inlets shall be used to intercept flow at that point.
Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown for each and every lot and
block. Construction activities that result in the disturbance of one or more
acres of land will be required to obtain a rule five permit from IDEM.
   (B)   Nature of storm water facilities.
      (1)   Location. The applicant may be required by the Commission to carry
away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist, either
previously to, or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage facilities
shall be located in the street right-of-way where feasible, or in perpetual,
unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed in
accordance with the county’s construction standards and specifications.
      (2)   Accessibility to public storm sewers.
         (a)   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of storm water,
subject to the specifications of the Commission. However, in subdivisions
containing lots of less than 15,000 square feet in area and in business and
industrial districts, underground storm sewer systems shall be constructed
throughout the subdivision and be conducted to an approved outfall. Inspection
of the facilities shall be conducted upon completion.
         (b)   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided
eventually, as determined by the Commission, the developer shall make
arrangements for future storm water disposal by the public utility system at
the time the plat receives final approval. Cost provision(s) for such
connection(s) shall be incorporated by inclusion in the amount of the
performance bond or equivalent required for the subdivision plat.
      (3)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. A culvert or other
drainage facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The Commission shall determine the necessary size of the facility,
based on the provisions of the required construction standards and
specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development
permitted by the zoning ordinance.
      (4)   Effect on downstream drainage areas. The Commission shall determine
the effect of each proposed subdivision on existing drainage facilities outside
the area of the subdivision. County drainage studies together with such other
studies as may be available and appropriate, shall serve as a guide to needed
improvements. All costs that may be needed for any studies required by the
Commission shall be provided by the developer. Where it is anticipated that the
additional runoff incident to the development of the subdivision will overload
an existing downstream drainage facility, the Commission may withhold secondary
approval of the subdivision until provisions (such as a storage facility) has
been made for the improvement of said potential condition in such sum as the
Commission shall determine. No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate
drainage from it will be provided to an adequate drainage water course or
facility.
      (5)   Areas of poor drainage. Areas which are not in the floodplain but
contain soils which are subject to flooding may be approved for subdivision by
the Commission, provided that the subdivider fills the affected areas of said
subdivision to an elevation sufficient to place building sites and streets two
feet above ponding levels.
      (6)   Areas of high seasonal water tables. In areas characterized by
soils having a high seasonal water table as determined by the County Soil and
Water Conservation District, lots shall be limited to slab type construction
unless the Commission determines that appropriate engineering techniques will
be applied to alleviate the subsurface problem.
      (7)   Drainage design criteria. The subdivider shall size all storm
sewers, culverts, ditches and other drainage structures based on runoff from a
ten-year storm event using the appropriate intensity/duration curve for the
area and a minimum time of concentration of five minutes. The drainage
calculations shall also include the effect of the subdivision on the existing
downstream drainage facilities outside the subdivided area. The Area Plan
Commission shall also require detention facilities adequate to reduce runoff
from proposed development to the extent that the 50-year post development flow
is stored and the ten-year pre-development flow may be released.
      (8)   Floodway areas. If a subdivision of land is proposed within the
floodplain, floodways shall be preserved and not diminished in capacity by
filling or obstruction, except as approved by the Commission. No residential
building site may be located within the floodway.
      (9)   Floodway fringe areas. Where a subdivision is proposed within an
area of the floodplain designated as floodway fringe, the Commission may
approve such subdivision provided that: all streets are elevated sufficiently
to be above the regulatory flood elevation; all lots for residential usage have
a flood protection grade two feet above the regulatory flood elevation; where
provided, water and sanitary sewer facilities are constructed to eliminate
contamination of or by, flood water; and, approval to fill the area from the
Commission. Lands below the regulatory flood elevation shall not be used for
computing the area requirement for any lot.
      (10)   Floodplain areas. Where a subdivision is proposed within an area
of the floodplain for which floodway and floodway fringe designations have not
been made, the Commission shall not approve such a subdivision unless all
streets are raised sufficiently to be above the regulatory flood elevation; all
lots for residential usage have a flood protection grade of two feet above the
regulatory flood elevation; where provided, public water and sanitary sewer
facilities are constructed to eliminate contamination of or by floodwater; and,
filling to achieve the above will not raise the level of the regulatory flood
elevation more than one-tenth of one foot for that reach of the stream. All
filling in the floodplain must be approved in writing by the State Natural
Resources Commission. Lands below the regulatory flood elevation shall not be
used for computing the area requirement for any lot.
      (11)   Recording of plats in the floodplain and floodway fringe. All
final plats having within their boundaries areas whose elevation is below that
of the regulatory rood elevation shall show and label the regulatory flood
boundary and elevation, as of the date the final plat is drawn, on the final
plat for recording.
   (C)   Dedication of drainage easements.
      (1)   General requirements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a
drainage course, drainage way, channel or stream, a storm water easement or
drainage right-of-way shall be provided, granted or dedicated to the county
conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and of such width
and construction or both as will be adequate for the purpose of both drainage
and maintenance of the right-of-way. Wherever possible, it is desirable that
the drainage be maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and
adequate width for maximum potential volume of flow.
      (2)   Drainage easements.
         (a)   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights-of-way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for such drainage
facilities shall be provided across property outside the right-of-way lines and
with satisfactory access to the street. Easements shall be indicated on the
plat. Drainage easements shall be carried from the street to a natural
watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
         (b)   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation, easement land on both sides of existing watercourse of a width to
be determined by the Commission.
         (c)   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
         (d)   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as drainage
ways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be included in
the computations for determining the number of lots allowable under average
density procedures nor for computing the area requirement for any individual
lot.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.103  SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   If, in the judgment of the Commission, a public sanitary sewer main is
reasonably accessible, a complete sanitary sewer system, including a lateral
connection to each lot in the subdivision, shall be installed and connected to
the main. The system shall be provided with all necessary supplemental
equipment or machinery (including, but not limited to, lift stations) and be in
such lengths, sizes, dimensions and specifications as shall be required by the
Commission. The plans for the installation of a sanitary sewer system shall be
prepared by a registered professional engineer, be provided by the subdivider
and approved by the State Board of Health (Regulation H.S.E. 14, L.S.B.H.).
Upon completion of the sewer installation, the plans as built shall be filed
with the City Engineer of North Vernon if within the corporate limits of North
Vernon, the Town Board of any participating towns, and the County Surveyor if
within the unincorporated area of the county and with the Commission.
   (B)   If a sanitary sewer system is to be installed, it may be desirable
that sewer mains of a larger size than needed to serve the immediate
subdivision be installed. If this occurs, the Commission may recommend that the
participating city, town and/or county join with the subdivider in the
installation of the sewer system.
   (C)   If, in the judgment of the Commission, a public sanitary sewer main is
not reasonably accessible, sanitary wastes may be disposed of by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   The subdivision may be provided with a complete sanitary sewer
system, with lateral connections to each lot and a common treatment plant, each
meeting the standards of the State Board of Health and/or the State Stream
Pollution Control Board; or
      (2)   The subdivision may be provided with a private sewage disposal
system on individual lots consisting of a septic tank and soil absorption
field, or other approved sewage disposal system, provided such disposal systems
are installed in accordance with at least the minimum standards of the State
Board of Health and provided that the soil in the subdivision will properly
absorb sewage effluent as determined by percolation tests, performed in
accordance with the procedure on pages 17, 18 and 19 of the State Board of
Health Bulletin, No. S.E. 8, 1967, or as determined by such other comparable
test approved by the Commission. Regardless of the tests used, the following
shall apply.
         (a)   An adequate number of tests (at least one to an acre) to clearly
indicate the soil conditions throughout the subdivision shall be provided by
the subdivider.
         (b)   These tests shall be performed by a licensed engineer, licensed
surveyor, qualified sanitarian or professional consulting soil scientist
acceptable to the Commission. Additional tests may be required by the
Commission at its discretion.
         (c)   The results of the tests shall be keyed to the plat map and
certified as being true and performed according to the required procedure by
the person performing the tests.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.104  STREET SIGNS.
   The subdivider shall provide street signs to meet the standards of the
county or any participating cities or town at all intersections.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.105  WATER.
   (A)   Construction of water mains. Where public water supply is available
within 2,000 feet of any boundary of the proposed subdivision, the subdivider
shall construct a system of water mains, connected with such public water
supply and provide a connection with each lot. The work shall be done in
accordance with the plans, profiles and specifications prepared by a registered
professional engineer and shall be approved by the city or town engineer of any
participating city or town and be in conformance with at least the minimum
requirements of the State Board of Health, Regulation H.S.E., 5,1.S.B.H.
   (B)   Distribution system. No pipe smaller than six inches in diameter shall
be permitted. Six-inch pipe shall be limited to lengths of not over 800 feet
unless looped. In high value districts, so designated for purposes of fire
protection and prevention, distributors shall be not less than eight inches and
cross-connected within 800 feet. On primary streets and for all long lines,
distributors shall be 12 inches or larger.
   (C)   Valves. Valves shall be installed so that no single accident, break
repair or extension will necessitate shutting down a length of pipe greater
than 500 feet in high value districts or greater than 1,000 feet in other
districts so that flows may be maintained through arterial mains.
   (D)   Community or individual water supply. Where public water supply is not
available within 200 feet of any boundary of the proposed subdivision, and
where the Commission determines that connection thereto would create a hardship
for the subdivider, the subdivider may provide each lot with a community or
individual water supply provided that installation conforms to at least the
minimum requirements of the State Board of Health Bulletin No. S.E. 7, Safe
Water Supply, Current Issue. Upon the completion of the water supply system,
the plans for such system as built shall be filed with the Commission, the
County Surveyor if the installation is within the unincorporated area of the
county, with the City Engineer if within the North Vernon corporate limits,
with the Town Board of Vernon, or any participating town.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.106  CURB AND GUTTER.
   (A)   The Commission shall require, regardless of development density, curb
and gutter on the down-slope side of the street surface in a hillside
subdivision to assist in erosion control. The curb system on the down-slope
side shall be provided with catch basins and culverts as necessary to carry
run-off waters to the natural drainage course.
   (B)   Curb and gutter shall be constructed to the following specifications.
      (1)   The base for the curb and gutter shall be well compacted on the
existing base.
      (2)   Curb and gutter shall be portland cement concrete meeting State
Highway Commission specifications.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.107  DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING LOT ENTRANCES.
   (A)   Entrances and exits of parking spaces and private driveways are
critical points at which accidents occur. Blind corners shall be prohibited and
entrances to large parking areas shall be given the same design consideration
as street intersections. The minimum distance of private driveways from curb
intersection at street corners shall be 30 feet. The minimum distance of
driveways to parking areas designated to accommodate more than 20 cars shall be
60 feet. (Refer to §§
154.120 through
154.126 for off-street parking regulations)
   (B)   Obtaining a driveway permit:
      (1)   From the county garage if the drive comes off of a county road and
there is no existing culvert (346-2967);
      (2)   From the State Department of Transportation (Madison Sub-District
Office) if drive comes off of a state highway (812-574-4368); or
      (3)   From the city if the drive comes off a city street, at the City
Street Department (346-1616) or the City Clerk Treasurer (346-5907).
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.108  SIDEWALKS.
   All major subdivisions shall be required to have a paved sidewalk installed
on at least one side of the street.
   (A)   Required improvements.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated, unpaved portions
of the right-of-way of all streets within the subdivision.
      (2)   Concrete curbs shall be installed as required in Table 4-1 above or
required at the discretion of the Commission.
      (3)   All sidewalk widths and setbacks shall be as required in Table 4-
1 above. Any sidewalk that requires a setback from the road shall have a
grassed or landscaped median strip between them.
      (4)   All sidewalks installed shall have ramps that are handicap
accessible.
      (5)   Concrete shall be four-inch by four-inch minimum on four inches of
stone or asphalt shall be three inches by six foot minimum on six inches of
stone.
   (B)   Pedestrian access. In order to facilitate pedestrian access from the
street to schools, parks, playgrounds or other nearby streets, the Commission
may require perpetual unobstructed easements. Such easements shall be indicated
on both the preliminary and final plats.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Policy statement
   
154.002   Enactment
   
154.003   Interpretation
   
154.004   Non-interference
   
154.005   Non-conflict
   
154.006   Finality
   
154.007   Separability
   
154.008   Definitions
Administration, Enforcement and General Requirements
   
154.020   Organization
   
154.021   Office of the Zoning Enforcement Officer
   
154.022   Area Board of Zoning Appeals
   
154.023   Area Plan Commission
   
154.024   Essential Services Committee
   
154.025   Rezoning process
   
154.026   Development (site) plan review
   
154.027   Zoning certifications
   
154.028   Occupancy certificates
   
154.029   Improvement location permit
   
154.030   Steps to obtain a building permit
   
154.031   Required improvements
   
154.032   Environmental
   
154.033   Variances
   
154.034   Show cause
   
154.035   Appeals
   
154.036   Amendments
   
154.037   Special uses
   
154.038   Fees
   
154.039   Building Code
Zoning Districts
   
154.050   Agricultural zoning
   
154.051   Residential zoning
   
154.052   Commercial zoning
   
154.053   Industrial zoning
   
154.054   Institutional zoning
   
154.055   Planned Unit Development District (PUD)
   
154.056   Airport zoning
   
154.057   Floodplain zoning
Non-Conforming Use Specification
   
154.070   Definition
   
154.071   Provisions
   
154.072   Revocation
Electrical Licensing
   
154.085   Inspection and licensing requirements
   
154.086   Rules of examination
Signs
   
154.100   General provisions
   
154.101   Residential District
   
154.102   Commercial District
   
154.103   Industrial District
   
154.104   Agricultural and Floodplain Districts
   
154.105   Outdoor advertising signs (billboards)
Off-Street Parking and Loading Facilities
   
154.120   Scope of regulations
   
154.121   Existing parking facilities
   
154.122   Permissive parking and loading facilities
   
154.123   Damage or destruction
   
154.124   Control of off-street parking facilities
   
154.125   Off-street parking
   
154.126   Off-street loading
Sexually-Oriented Businesses
   
154.140   Purpose
   
154.141   Establishment of a Sexually-Oriented Business Zoning District
   
154.142   Definitions
   
154.143   Classification
   
154.144   Location restrictions
   
154.145   Measurement of distance
   
154.146   Exemptions
   
154.147   Non-conforming uses
   
154.148   Permits; enforcement responsibility
   
154.149   Application procedure
   
154.150   Investigation
   
154.151   Issuance or denial of permit
   
154.152   Fees
   
154.153   Inspection
   
154.154   Expiration of permit
   
154.155   Suspension
   
154.156   Revocation
   
154.157   Administrative and judicial review
   
154.158   No transfer of permit
   
154.159   Minors on premises prohibited
   
154.160   Exterior portions of sexually-oriented businesses
   
154.161   Hours of operation
   
154.162   Public nudity prohibited
   
154.163   Operation without valid permit prohibited
   
154.164   Culpable mental state required to establish liability
   
154.165   Injunction
   
154.166   Sexually-oriented business lot layouts
Abandoned or Inoperative Vehicles
   
154.180   Public nuisance finding
   
154.181   Definitions
   
154.182   Liability of owner
   
154.183   Unlawful activities
   
154.184   Public policy
   
154.185   Procedure for declaration of abandonment
   
154.186   Notice tag and disposal or storage of vehicles
   
154.187   Abandoned vehicle report
   
154.188   Bureau’s responsibility
   
154.189   Disposition and sale of stored vehicles
   
154.190   Bill of sale, duties of Police Department
   
154.191   Vehicles left on private property; complaints
   
154.192   Liability for loss or damage to vehicles during removal, storage or
disposition
   
154.193   Payment of costs from abandoned vehicle account; maximum charge
   
154.194   Proceeds of sale credited against costs
   
154.195   Abandoned Vehicle Account
   
154.196   Exempt vehicles
Applications and Fees
   
154.210   Permit fee schedule
   
154.211   Rezoning application
   
154.212   Improvement location permit application
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Airport Zoning Easement and Covenant
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   Designation of zoning districts is intended to guide the development
of the community in a way that promotes and maintains essential values: public
safety, protection of individual property rights and quality of life for
residents.
   (B)   Zoning districts are designed to establish the appropriate intensity
of development with respect to surrounding uses. Therefore, zoning designations
in the county shall be considered to indicate prescribed actual use of parcels
within each district, not the maximum intensity use. For example, the owner of
a parcel in a residential multi-family district may not construct single-family
homes on that parcel on the premise that the actual development does not exceed
the development intensity for the district.
   (C)   In making zoning designations, the Area Plan Commission must consider
existing development and zoning districts. By the same token, property owners
must acknowledge permitted uses in adjacent or nearby districts as valid use.
For example, a property owner who builds a residence in a residential district
adjacent to an agricultural district will have no basis for complaint or claim
against any farmer carrying out legitimate and permitted activities in the
agricultural district.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.002  ENACTMENT.
   (A)   Title. These regulations shall hereinafter be known and cited as the
Unified Zoning Ordinance of Jennings County, herein referred to as “this
chapter.”
   (B)   Effective date. This chapter becomes effective 14 days after the
notice of the adoption is published pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-610(a) and (e).
   (C)   Repealer.
      (1)   Upon its enactment by the county, city and town as set forth
hereinabove, this chapter shall supplant and effectively repeal the Unified
Zoning Ordinance of the county previously adopted on May 20, 1996, for the
county; November 4, 1996, for the City of North Vernon; December 5, 1996, for
the Town of Vernon and subsequently amended.
      (2)   Inasmuch as orderly transition from the prior ordinance to this
chapter is desired, it is necessary and proper for the Area Plan Commission to
consider the terms of the prior ordinance in the application of this chapter
and, further, utilize all existing zoning maps until same are updated and
replaced.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.003  INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, morals, convenience and general welfare.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.004  NON-INTERFERENCE.
   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, or abolish, or
abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties,
nor to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinances (other than expressly
repealed) hereby, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued
and not in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall
be adopted or provided, except that where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or land, or upon the height of buildings,
or required larger open spaces or greater lot area per family than are required
or imposed by such easements, covenants or agreements between parties, or by
such ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.005  NON-CONFLICT.
   No building, structure or use which was not lawfully existing at the time of
the adoption of this chapter shall become or be made lawful solely by reason of
the adoption of this chapter; and to the extent that, and in any manner that,
said unlawful building, structure or use is in conflict with the requirements
of this chapter, said building, structure or use remains unlawful hereafter.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.006  FINALITY.
   (A)   All actions of the County Area Plan Commission or Board of Zoning
Appeals shall be deemed final. However, in the case of a person unilaterally
modifying or expanding beyond the scope of the action, whether rezoning
designation, issuance of permit, granting of special use or variance, such
modification or expansion shall serve to void the original action.
   (B)   The Area Plan Commission and the Board of Zoning Appeals reserve unto
themselves the authority to review the rezoning designation, permit, special
use or variance for a period of one year beyond the issuance or granting of
same to determine whether such an exparte modification or expansion has been
effected.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.007  SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this chapter or amendments thereto invalid, such judgments shall not affect any
other provisions of this chapter or amendment thereto, not specifically
included in said judgment.
   (B)   If any court of jurisdiction shall judge invalid the application of
any provision of this chapter or amendments thereto a particular property,
building or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of
said provision to any property, building or structure not specifically included
in such judgment.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.008  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Identification.  The purpose of this section is to identify the terms
and words used in this chapter as they relate to the county.
      (1)   BOARD. The County Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The County Building Inspector.
      (3)   CODE/ORDINANCE. In subsequent sections hereof, reference may be
made to “Code” or to the “Ordinance.” It is intended that the terms, when used
herein, are interchangeable.
      (4)   COMMISSION. The County Area Plan Commission.
      (5)   COUNTY.  Jennings County, Indiana.
      (6)   DISTRICT. A section of the jurisdictional area for which uniform
regulations governing the use, height, area, size and intensity of use of
buildings and land, and open spaces about buildings, are herein established.
      (7)   MASTER PLAN.  The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the
development of areas, prepared by the Commission and adopted in accordance with
I.C. 18-7-5-1, as amended and now known as I.C. 36-7-4-201 et seq. as is now or
hereafter in effect.
      (8)   ZONE MAP.  The current editions of maps entitled “Jennings County,
Indiana Zone Map,” and “Jennings County, Indiana Jurisdictional Area and Zone
Map,” with amendments, and are on file and available for public inspection in
the Area Plan Commission Office of the county.
   (B)   Interpretation. The purpose of this section is to interpret certain
terms and words for the purpose of this chapter.
      (1)   Tense and number.
         (a)   Words in the present tense include the future and vice-versa.
         (b)   Words in the singular number include the plural number and vice-
versa.
      (2)   Key words.
         (a)   The word “Building” includes the word “Structure” and vice-
versa.
         (b)   The word “Shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (C)   Terms. For the purpose of this chapter and Chapter 153, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING USE.
         (a)   A subordinate, detached and roofed structure, not designed for
human habitation, which serves a function incidental to and associated with
that of the same lot and which does not change or alter the character of the
premises.
         (b)   Public utility communications, electric, gas, water and sewer
lines, their supports and incidental equipment.
      ACT.  Refers to the existing Indiana Code. (See INDIANA CODE.)
      ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE. (See SIGN.)
      AGRICULTURE.
         (a)   The use of land for active pursuit of agricultural purposes,
including farming, dairying, pasturage, AGRICULTURE, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture, animal and poultry husbandry, the primary processing
of products thereof produced on the premises and the necessary accessory uses
for packing, treating or sorting said products.
         (b)   The principal characteristic of such operations shall not
include the commercial processing of agricultural products produced primarily
on farms other than that on which the processing facilities are located.
      AIRPORT. Any location, including necessary buildings, either on land,
water or structure, which is designed or used for landing and taking-off of
aircraft.
         (a)   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known, or hereafter invented, used
or designed for navigation of or flight in the air.
         (b)   AIRPORT. The North Vernon Municipal Airport.
         (c)   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The highest point of an airport’s usable
landing area measured in feet from mean sea level, and established to be 758
feet above mean sea level (MSL).
         (d)   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure, object of natural growth located
on or in the vicinity of a public airport or any use of land near such airport,
which obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or
take-off at such airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or takeoff
of aircraft.
         (e)   AIRPORT LAYOUT PLAN. An overall planning document geometrically
establishing the horizontal and vertical locations of the ultimate runway ends
at the North Vernon Municipal Airport for which is the basis for the Airport
Zoning District
         (f)   BOUNDARY. The property line existing in fee simple and depicted
on the Airport Zoning Map.
         (g)   GEOGRAPHICAL REFERENCE POINT. The airport reference point (ARP)
established as a point having equal relationship to all existing and proposed
landing and takeoff points, as defined in AC 15073500-4B, as amended, and
having Latitude 39° 02'36"N and Longitude 85° 37'0T’W.
         (h)   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway.
When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE
extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway; but when the runway has no
specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface
ends at each end of the runway. The width of the primary surface of a runway
will be that width prescribed in Part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations
(FAR) for the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that
runway. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
         (i)   RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and
takeoff of aircraft
along its length.
         (j) RUNWAY 5-23, NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT. A runway having an existing
instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only
horizontal guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in
non-precision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned, and
for which no precision approach facilities are planned or indicated on an FAA
planning document or military service’s military airport planning document.
         (k)   RUNWAY 15-33, UTILITY. A runway that is constructed for and
intended to be used by propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross
weight and less.
         (l)   RUNWAY 15-33, VISUAL. A runway intended solely for the operation
of aircraft using visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument
approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on an FAA approved
airport layout plan, or by any planning document submitted to the FAA by
competent authority.
         (m)   ZONES. The zones established in this chapter are imaginary
horizontal or inclined surfaces as indicated on the North Vernon Municipal
Airport Zoning Map dated August 4, 1981.
      ALLEY. A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which affords a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
      ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction, or any
change in the
structural members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or
girders.
      ANIMAL, DOMESTIC. A horse, mule, swine, goat, sheep, cow, rabbit, turkey,
chicken, guinea, pheasant, quail or similar animals and fowl commonly kept on
farms located in the county area.
      APPLICANT.  The fee simple owner of land who makes application to the
County Area Plan Commission for action by said Commission thereby affecting
that land.
      AREA PLAN COMMISSION. A multiple jurisdictional Plan Commission
established under the area plan law as defined in I.C. 36-7-4-102 as amended.
      ARTERIAL. Either a primary arterial or a secondary arterial as defined in
this section.
      ATTACHED MULTI-FAMILY.  A structure of multi-family use, having common or
party wall or walls.
      BASEMENT. A story or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a basement shall be counted as a story when more than one-half of
its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided into rooms and used for commercial or tenant dwelling purposes by
other than a janitor employed on the premises.
      BED AND BREAKFAST.  A building in which one but not more than five guest
rooms are used to provide or offer overnight accommodations to transient guests
for compensation.
      BILLBOARD. (See SIGN.)
      BLOCK.  A property abutting on one side of a street, and lying between
the two nearest intersecting streets, or between the nearest intersecting
street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or other definite barrier.
      BLOCK, FRONTAGE. Property having frontage on one side of a street and
lying between the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or
other barrier.
      BLOCK, RESIDENTIAL. A block in which business or industrial uses are not
permitted.
      BOARD. The County Board of Zoning Appeals. Also commonly referred to by
the abbreviation BZA.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and
by arrangement, meals and/or lodging are provided for three or more persons but
not to exceed 20 persons.
      BUFFER LANDSCAPING.   Any trees, shrubs, walls, fences, berms or related
landscaping
features required under the subdivision control ordinance or the zoning
ordinance on private lots and privately maintained for buffering lots from
adjacent properties or public rights of way for the purpose of increasing sound
and/or visual privacy. (See SCREENING also.)
      BUILDING. Any roofed structure built for the support, shelter, enclosure
or protection of persons, animals, chattels or moveable property of any kind
(each part of such a structure that is separated from the rest by unbroken
party walls is considered to be a separate BUILDING for the purposes of this
chapter). All BUILDINGS which are not accessory buildings shall have a
permanent foundation. (Refer to STRUCTURE.)
      BUILDING AREA.  The total ground area, within the lot or project, covered
by enclosed residential building space plus garages, carports and other
accessory buildings.
      BUILDING CODE. (See CODE/ORDINANCE.)
      BUILDING COMMISSIONER.  Refers to the person employed and delegated the
primary responsibility of issuing permits and may or may not conduct
inspections of same.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. (See HEIGHT.)
      BUILDING INSPECTOR.
         (a)   The County Building Inspector.
         (b)   The person who, under the direction of the Zoning Enforcement
Officer/Building Commissioner, conducts on-site inspections of buildings for
compliance with the applicable codes.
      BUILDING LINE. The line that establishes the minimum permitted distance
on a lot between the building and the lot line.
      BUILDING PERMIT. A certificate issued by the Building Permit Official of
a governing body permitting a person, firm or corporation to erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish any building
or structure within its jurisdiction, or cause the same to be done.
      BUILDING PERMIT OFFICIAL. That official of local government authorized to
issue building permits.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. (See PRINCIPAL USE BUILDING.)
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to and equidistant from the
relevant lot line (front, back, side), establishing the minimum open space to
be provided, between which no buildings or structures may be erected as
prescribed in this chapter, except an eave or cornice overhang not to exceed
four feet.
      BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or
exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation
of offices or recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
      BUSINESS SCHOOL. (See TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL.)
      CAMPGROUND.  Any site, lot, field or tract of land under single
ownership, or ownership of two or more people, designed with facilities for
short term occupancy by recreational vehicles and other camping equipment but
not including mobile homes.
      CAMPING TRAILER. A TRAVEL TRAILER as defined under RECREATIONAL VEHICLE
in this section.
      CAR AREA.  Open space area (uncovered and covered) used for car traffic,
maneuvering and parking. Includes roads and right-of-way of all streets within
the project, plus the area of half of any abutting alley or street right-of-
way.
      CARPORT.  An area under roof which is used for off-street storage of
street vehicles.
      CEMETERY.  Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for
cemetery proposes, including columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and
mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of such
cemetery.
      CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A community sewer system including collection
and treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new
subdivision or an existing public sewer system.
      CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM.  A community water supply system including existing
and new
wells and/or surface water sources and intakes, treatment facilities and
distribution lines and includes such of the above facilities established by the
developer to serve a new subdivision.
      CERTIFICATE.  The signed and attested document which indicates that a
subdivision has been granted secondary approval by the Commission subsequent to
proper public notice of its hearing.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.  An occupancy permit, as cited in I.C. 36-7-4-
801 and 36-7-4-802. A certificate of compliance is commonly understood to be
final approval resulting from satisfying all the terms of the applicable
permits.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate stating that the occupancy and
use of land or a building or structure referred to therein complies with the
provisions of this chapter.
      CHECKPOINT AGENCY.  A public agency or organization called upon by the
Commission to provide expert counsel with regard to a specific aspect of
community development or required by law to give its assent before subdivision
may take place.
      CHILD CARE CENTER.  A non-residential structure in which the operators of
the structure
receive compensation for caring for four or more children on a regular basis.
The care center must be licensed by the state, and can include nursery schools
or pre-schools. This definition does not include public or private schools of
general education. Generally care is provided for four or more hours during the
working hours of the child’s parent or guardian.
      CHILD CARE HOME. A residential structure in which the resident receives
compensation for the caring for at least six children, for more than four hours
but less than 24 hours, for ten or more consecutive working weekdays (not
including the children for whom the provider is a parent, step-parent,
guardian, custodian or other relative.)
      CHURCH. A building for religious worship services.
      CITY. Any classified CITY or incorporated town.
      CLINIC. An establishment where patients who are not lodged overnight are
admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians.
      CODE/ORDINANCE. In subsequent sections hereof, reference may be to CODE
or to the ORDINANCE. It is intended the terms, when used herein, are
interchangeable.
      COLLECTOR STREET. A street intended to move traffic from local streets to
secondary arterials. (A COLLECTOR STREET serves a neighborhood or large
subdivision and should be designed so that no residential properties face onto
it and no driveway access to it is permitted unless the property is to be in
multifamily use for four or more dwelling units.)
      COMMERCIAL.  (See BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL.)
      COMMISSION.  The County Area Plan Commission.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  Inclusive physical, social and economic plans and
policies in graphic and verbal statement forms for the development of North
Vernon, Vernon, any other participating town, and the county, prepared and
adopted by the Commission and indicating general locations recommended for
public improvement, pursuant to the state acts, and including any part of such
plan and/or policies separately adopted and any amendment to such plan and/or
policies, or parts thereof.
      CONDOMINIUM. The division of building(s) and the related land into
horizontal property interests meeting the requirements of and controlled by
state statutes for condominiums as prescribed by I.C. 32-25.
      CONSTRUCTION PLAN(S). The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision
plat and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be
installed for the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter as a condition of the approval of the plat.
      CORNER. The point of intersection of any public roads or easements which
have been dedicated and accepted by a unit of government.
      CORNER LOT.  (See LOT, CORNER.)
      COUNTY.  Jennings County, Indiana.
      COUNTY BUILDING CODE.  (See BUILDING CODE.)
      COUNTY RECORDER. The county official empowered to record and file land
description plats.
      COVENANT (DEED RESTRICTION).  A private, legal restriction on the use of
land contained in the deed to the property. Normally applied to all lots in any
subdivision.
      COVERAGE.  The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon.
      CUL-DE-SAC.  A local street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement
including public safety vehicles.
      DAY CARE CENTER. (See CHILD CARE CENTER.)
      DAY CARE HOME. (See CHILD CARE HOME.)
      DEAD-END STREET.  A street or a portion of a street with only one
vehicular traffic outlet, and no turnaround at the terminal end.
      DESIGNATED OFFICIALS. Those officials of the Commission designated in the
subdivision ordinance as required signatories for the execution of secondary
approval.
      DETACHED BUILDING.  A building that has no structural connection with
another building.
      DEVELOPER.  The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent for making applications for development approval shall
be required from the legal owner of the premises.
      DEVELOPMENT DENSITY.  Number of dwelling units per gross acre. (IDEM
Permit System with Sewage and Water.)
         (a)   Low - one or less dwelling units per acre.
         (b)   Medium - one to four dwelling units per acre.
         (c)   High - over four dwelling units per acre.
      DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A specific plan for the development of real property
that:
         (a)   Requires approval by a plan commission under the 1400 series of
I.C. 36-7-4;
         (b)   Includes a site plan;
         (c)   Satisfies the development requirements specified in the zoning
ordinance regulating the development; and
         (d)   Contains the plan documentation and supporting information
required by the zoning ordinance.
      DISTRICT.  A section of the jurisdictional area for which uniform
regulations governing the use, height, area, size and intensity of use of
buildings and land, and open spaces about buildings, are herein established.
(I.C. 36-7-1-6)
      DRIVE-IN.  An establishment selling foods, frozen desserts or beverages
to consumers, the establishment being designed, intended or used for the
consumption of such items on the premises outside of the building in which they
were prepared.
      DRIVES, PRIVATE.  Vehicular streets and driveways, paved or unpaved,
which are wholly
within private property except where they intersect with public streets within
public right-of-way.
      DRIVEWAY.  (See DRIVES, PRIVATE.)
      DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms, connected constituting a separate,
independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental or lease
on a weekly, monthly or longer basis, and physically separated from any other
rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and containing
independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
      EASEMENT.  An authorization grant by the property owner for the use of
any designated part of his or her property by a corporation or persons for a
specific use(s) and purpose(s) and officially recorded.
      ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the Commission in lieu of an amount
required and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond. Such escrow
funds shall be held by the County Auditor.
      EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.  The Executive Director of the Area Plan Commission
of the county.
      FAMILY.  One or more persons sharing meals and living as a single
housekeeping unit.
      FARM.  Land for which the primary purpose is the active pursuit of
agriculture and the production of agricultural products. A FARM may include
dwellings for the owner of the farm and/or the operator of the farm, and the
families thereof, as well as necessary buildings to house or accommodate
business activities of the farm.
      FENCE.  A structure, including entrance and exit gates, designed and
constructed for enclosure or screening.
      FINAL PLAT.  The map, drawing or plan described in this chapter and any
accompanying material submitted to the Commission for secondary approval, and
which if approved and signed by the designated officials, may be submitted to
the County Recorder for recording.
      FLAG LOT.  (See LOT, FLAG.)
      FLOOD.The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by
overflow from a river, stream, lake or other body of water. I.C. 14-8-2-93 as
amended by Pub. L. No. 123, Acts of 1973, defines FLOOD as “the water of any
river or stream in the state or upon or adjoining any boundary line of the
state which is above the bank and/or outside the channel and banks of such
river or stream;” and also means the water of any lake which is above and
outside the banks thereof. See state law for additional definitions.
      FLOOD CONTROL.  The prevention of floods, the control, regulation,
diversion or confinement of flood water or flood flow, and the protection
therefrom, according to sound and accepted engineering practice, to minimize
the extent of floods and the death, damage and destruction caused thereby and
all things incidental thereto or connected with.
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A floodplain, or portion thereof, which has not been
adequately protected from floodwater by means of dikes, levees, reservoirs or
other works approved by the Indiana Natural Resource Commission. These areas
are shown on the zoning map and/or the Flood Hazard or Floodway-Flood Boundary
maps of the Federal Insurance Administration or maps provided to the Commission
from the State Natural Resources Commission.
      FLOODPLAIN.  The relatively flat or low land adjoining the channel of a
river or stream which has been or may be covered by flood water. The FLOODPLAIN
includes the channel, floodway and floodway fringe.
      FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or stream
and is that area covered by floodwaters in significant downstream motion or
covered by significant volumes of stored water during the occurrence of the
regulatory flood.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the flood hazard areas lying outside
the floodway, which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
      FLOOR AREA. The sum of the horizontal areas of the one or several floors
and basements of all buildings or portions thereof, within the project, and
devoted to permitted uses. Not including however:
         (a)   Floor or basement floor area devoted to off-street parking or
loading facilities, including aisles, ramps and maneuvering space;
         (b)   Floor or basement floor area provided for recreational uses,
available to occupants of two or more living units within the project; or
         (c)   Basement floor area provided for storage facilities allocated to
serve individual living units within the project.
      FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR).  The total area of all stories of all buildings
within the project divided by the land area.
      FOUNDATION.  Any structural system for transporting loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe capacity of the supporting soil.
      FRONT LINE.  With respect to a building, means the foundation line that
is nearest the front lot line.
      FREE-STANDING SIGN. (See SIGN.)
      FRONT YARD. The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building to the right-of-way line and that right-of-way line, extending to the
side hues of the lot, and measured as the shortest distance from that
foundation to the right-of-way line. The FRONT YARD of a corner lot shall be
that yard abutting the street upon which the lot has its least frontage, except
as deed restrictions specify otherwise.
      FRONTAGE. Any part of a lot that faces a street, road or public way.
      FRONTAGE STREET.  Any street to be constructed by the developer or any
existing street in which development shall take place on both sides.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE.  An accessory building with capacity for not more than
four motor vehicles per family, not more than one of which may be a commercial.
A garage designed to house two motor vehicles for each family housed in an
apartment shall be classed as a PRIVATE GARAGE.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC.  Any building or premise, except those defined herein as
a PRIVATE GARAGE, used for the storage, or care of motor vehicles, or where
such vehicles are equipped for operation, repairs or kept for remuneration,
hire or sale.
      GARAGE SALES.  (See YARD SALES.)
      GOVERNING BODY.  The body of the relevant local government having the
power to adopt ordinances.
      GRADE.  The slope of a street, or other public way, specified in
percentage terms.
      GROUP HOME.  A residential facility licensed by the Developmental
Disabilities Residential Facilities Council that profiles residential services
for not more than eight developmentally disabled persons, none of whom has a
history of violent or antisocial behavior, and such staff as are necessary to
adequately manage the home. Nothing in this chapter shall regulate any
residential facility in a residential zone within the definition of I.C. 12-7-
2-165, as amended, or any such facility operated and existing within the
applicable state and federal laws.
      HARDSHIP.  A perceived difficulty with regard to one’s ability to improve
land stemming from the application of the development standards of this chapter
which may or may not be subject to relief by means of variance. In and of
themselves, self-imposed situations and claims based on a perceived reduction
of or restriction on economic gain shall not be considered HARDSHIPS. Self-
imposed situations include: the purchase of land with actual or constructive
knowledge that, for reasons other than physical characteristics of the
property, the development standards herein will inhibit the desired
improvement; any improvement initiated in violation of the standards of this
chapter; any result of land division requiring variance from the development
standards of this chapter in order to render that site buildable.
      HEIGHT.
         (a)   For the purpose of determining the HEIGHT limits in all zones
set forth and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level
elevation unless otherwise stated.
         (b)   With respect to a building, means the vertical distance from the
lot ground level to the highest point, for a flat roof; to the deck line, for a
mansard roof; and to the mean HEIGHT between eaves and ridges, for a gable, hip
or gambrel roof.
      HOME OCCUPATION OR HOME BUSINESS.  Any use conducted entirely within a
residential structure and participated in, principally by members of the
family, which use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
structure for residential purpose and does not change the character thereof.
      HOTEL.  A building in which lodging or boarding and lodging are provided
and offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to
and from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a
person in charge at all hours. As such it is open to the public in
contradiction to a boarding house or a multiple-family residence which are
herein separately defined.
      HOUSING CODE.  That county ordinance controlling the continuing safety
and healthfulness of buildings for human occupation within the county’s
jurisdiction. Also referred to herein as the COUNTY HOUSING CODE.
      I.C.  (See INDIANA CODE.)
      IMPROVEMENTS.  (See LOT IMPROVEMENTS or PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.)
      IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.  A certificate issued by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer/Building Commissioner permitting a person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert or demolish any building or structure within the locality, or cause the
same to be done or change the use or condition of the land.
      INDIANA CODE.  The Burns Indiana Statutes Code Edition, which codifies
all Indiana statutes for reference purposes. The latest edition with any
amending supplements must be referred to for the laws now in force and
applicable. (Usually abbreviated as I.C. herein.)
      INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system, or any other approved sewage treatment device approved by the
Health Department.
      INSTITUTION.  Building(s) and/or land operated by or through various
government programs designed to aid individuals in need of mental, therapeutic,
rehabilitative counseling or other correctional services.
      INTERESTED PARTIES.  Those parties who are the owners of properties
adjoining or adjacent to the proposed subdivision as shown on the sketch plan.
      INTERIOR LOT.  (See LOT, INTERIOR.)
      JOINT OWNERSHIP.  JOINT OWNERSHIP among persons shall be constructed as
the same owner; “constructive ownership” for the purpose of imposing
subdivision regulations.
      JUNK VEHICLES.  Includes any of the following criteria:
         (a)   A vehicle that is not properly licensed;
         (b)   Not being operated;
         (c)   Not in running condition;
         (d)   On blocks;
         (e)   Dismantled or improperly stored; and
         (f)   Including any vehicle being repaired for more than a 60-day
period.
      JUNKYARD.  Any place at which personal property is or may be salvaged for
reuse, resale or reduction or similar disposition and is owned, possessed,
collected, accumulated, dismantled or sorted; including, but not limited to,
used or salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, lumber, millwork,
brick and similar property except animal matter; and used motor vehicles,
machinery or equipment which is used, owned or possessed for the purposes of
wrecking or salvaging parts therefrom.
      LAND AREA.  The total area within the legal boundaries of a parcel.
      LAND DIVIDER.  The owner of a parcel of land to be further divided
through making an exempt division.
      LANDSCAPE SCREEN.  Any combination of fences, walls, hedges, shrubs,
trees and other
landscape materials which effectively provide a solid, dense opaque mass on a
year-round basis, to prohibit view, absorb sound and provide site delineation.
      LOCAL STREET.  A street intended to provide access to other streets from
individual properties and to provide right-of-way beneath it for sewer, water
and storm drainage pipes.
      LOT.
         (a)   A tract, plot or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of
land, that has access to a street or thoroughfare, intended as a unit for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or of building
development.
         (b)   It may be a single parcel separately described in a deed or plat
which is recorded in the office of the County Recorder. In determining lot area
and boundary lines, no part thereof within the limits of a street shall be
included.
      LOT, CORNER.  A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees. A lot with
streets abutting more than two sides shall also be a CORNER LOT.
      LOT COVERAGE.  The horizontal area of all buildings on a lot as a
percentage of lot area.
      LOT, FLAG.  A large lot not meeting minimum frontage requirements and
where access to the public road is by a narrow, private right-of-way or
driveway.
      LOT FRONTAGE.  (SeeFRONTAGE.)
      LOT IMPROVEMENT.  Any building, structure, work of art or other object or
improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical
betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment. Certain lot
improvements shall be provided in these regulations.
      LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner or through lot with only one
frontage on a street.
      LOT LINE.  The property line between two established parcels of land or
one parcel and a public right-of-way or place.
      LOT, THROUGH.  A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than
one street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots
      LOT TYPE.  (See LOT, CORNER,  LOT, INTERIOR,  LOT, THROUGH)
      LOT WIDTH.  The dimension of a lot, measured between the side lot lines
on the building line.
      MARKER.  A stake, pipe, rod, nail or any other object which is not
intended to be a permanent point for record purposes.
      MASTER PLAN.  The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the development
of areas, prepared by the Commission and adopted in accordance with I.C. 18-7-
5-1, as amended and now known as I.C. 36-7-4-201 et seq. as is now or hereafter
in effect. (Also see COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.)
      MAJOR STREET.  A collector or arterial street.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION.  Any subdivision not classified as a minor
subdivision, including but not limited to subdivisions of more than five lots
of less than ten acres each, or any size subdivision requiring any new street
or extension of the local governmental facilities, or the creation of any
public improvements.
      MANEUVERING AISLE.  A maneuvering space which serves two or more parking
spaces, such as the area between two rows of parking spaces and/or the driveway
leading to those spaces.
      MANEUVERING SPACE.  An open space in a parking area which:
         (a)   Is immediately adjacent to a parking space;
         (b)   Is used for and/or is necessary for turning, backing or driving
forward a motor vehicle into such parking space, but
         (c)   Is not used for the parking or storage of motor vehicles.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING.  A single-family dwelling unit designed and built
in a factory, installed as a permanent residence, which bears a seal certifying
that it was built in compliance with the federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Law 1974 (U.S.C. § 5401 et seq.), and which
complies with the following specifications:
         (a)   Shall have been constructed after January 1, 1981 and must
exceed 950 square feet of occupied space per I.C. 36-7-4;
         (b)   Is attached to a permanent foundation of masonry construction
and has a permanent perimeter enclosure constructed in accordance with the One-
and Two-Family Dwelling Code;
         (c)   Has wheels, axles and towing chassis removed;
         (d)   Has a pitched roof with a minimum rise of 2/12; and
         (e)   Consists of two or more sections which, when joined, have a
minimum dimension of 20 feet by 47.5 feet in length or width enclosing occupied
space.
      MANUFACTURING, HEAVY.  Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing,
testing and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and
extensive in character; require large sites, open storage and service areas,
extensive services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation; and
normally generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare,
air pollution and water pollution, but not beyond the district boundary.
      MANUFACTURING, LIGHT.  Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are
usually controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet and free of
objectionable or hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor or dust; and
operating and storing within enclosed structures.
      MAP.  A representation of a part or the whole of the earth’s surface, in
signs and symbols, on a plane surface, at an established scale, with a method
of orientation indicated.
      MARKER.  A stake, pipe, rod, nail or any other object which is not
intended to be a permanent point for record purposes.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION.  A division of land into two or more lots, but not
more than five lots of less than ten acres each, fronting an existing street
which is an improved right-of-way maintained by the county (or other local
government), in one calendar year and not requiring new streets, alleys or
roads, nor the extension of municipal utilities, and not affecting the
development of the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property, and not in
conflict with any provision or portion of the Comprehensive Plan, Official Map
or this chapter.
      MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle without motive power designated by the
manufacturer or maker with hitch and undercarriage to permit attachment of
axles and wheels, and so designed to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
public streets and highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed as
will permit the vehicle to be used as a single-family dwelling and not
qualifying under the definition of MANUFACTURED HOUSING.
      MOBILE HOME PARK.  An area of land owned by a single user or group and
used for the parking of two or more mobile homes.
      MONUMENT.  A physical structure which marks the location of a corner or
other survey point.
      MOTEL.  A non-residential building in which lodging is provided and
offered to the public for compensation on a daily or weekly basis. Generally,
MOTELS do not provide permanent living quarters or areas for cooking and eating
within the rental unit.
      MULTI-FAMILY, ATTACHED.  (See ATTACHED MULTI-FAMILY.)
      MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE.  (See RESIDENCE, MULTI-FAMILY.)
      NON-CONFORMING USE.  Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at
the time of passage of this chapter which does not conform after the passage of
this chapter with the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
Existing improvements which do not meet required lot size, setback lines,
height, intensity, off-street parking and loading, signs and other regulations
for the district in which they are situated are NON-CONFORMING USES as defined
herein.
      OCCUPIED SPACE.  The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding garages, patios and porches and other accessory
structures.
      OFF-SITE.  Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
      ONE AND TWO FAMILY DWELLING CODE, INDIANA.  The nationally recognized
model building code adopted by the State Department of Fire Prevention and
Building Safety as mandated by 675 I.A.C. 14, and, which includes those
supplements and amendments promulgated by this agency.
      OPEN SPACE.  The total area of all land within parcel boundaries which is
not covered by structures or pavement.
      OPEN SPACE RATIO (OSR).  The open space divided by the floor area of
structures located on the parcel.
      OPEN USE.  (See USE, OPEN.)
      ORDINANCE.  A designated legislative action, however denominated, of a
local government body having the force of law, including an amendment or repeal
of any ORDINANCE.
      OUTSIDE STORAGE.
         (a)   The presence of equipment, materials, goods or other articles
outside of commercial or industrial structures.
         (b)   OUTSIDE STORAGE does not include off street parking, but does
include abandoned vehicles, unregistered vehicles, salvage vehicles and
vehicles awaiting repair if any of the above are left outside overnight.
      OVERHANG.  Any portion of a building structure that extends beyond the
exterior wall of the building without support. OVERHANGS shall not project more
than three feet from the building, and in no case shall be used to shelter an
automobile.
      OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firms, corporations or any other
legal entity having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest in the
land sought to be subdivided under these regulations.
      PARCEL.  A part or portion of land having a legal description formally
set forth in a conveyance together with the boundaries thereof, in order to
make possible its easy identification.
      PARKING AREA, PUBLIC.  An open area, other than a street or alley,
designed for use or used for the temporary parking of motor vehicles, whether
free or for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients, customers or
employees.
      PARKING GARAGE.  A garage where parking but not repairs are available to
the public.
      PARKING SPACE.  An open space, and portion of the car area, exclusive of
maneuvering aisle and driveway for the parking of a motor vehicle.
      PAVEMENT WIDTH.  The pavement width is measured from far edge of outside
travel lane to the opposite edge of the outside travel lane.
      PERIMETER STREET.  Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
      PERMANENT FOUNDATION.  Any structural system for transporting loads from
a structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe capacity of the supporting soil.
      PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE.  A permanent perimeter structure system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground, except for necessary openings, constructed in accordance with the One
and Two Family Dwelling Code.
      PERSON.  A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization,
unit of government or any other group that acts as a unit, as well as a human
being.
      PLACE.  An open, unoccupied, officially designated space other than a
street or alley, permanently reserved for use as the principal means of access
to abutting/adjoining property.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.  A means of land regulation which permits large
scale, unified land development in a configuration and possibly a mix of uses
not otherwise permitted “as of right” under this chapter but requiring under
this chapter or a special ordinance a special review and approval process.
      PLAT.  A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of
land, either filed or intended to be filed for record.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT.  A tentative map indicating the subdivision or
resubdivision of land, prepared in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter as a basis for consideration prior to the preparation of the final
plat.
      PRIMARY APPROVAL.  An approval (or approval with conditions imposed)
granted to a subdivision by the Commission after having determined in a public
hearing that the subdivision complies with the standards prescribed in this
chapter (per I.C. 36-7-4-700 series: Subdivision Control).
      PRIMARY ARTERIAL.  A street intended to move through-traffic to and from
such major attractors as central business districts, regional shopping centers,
colleges and/or universities, military installations, major industrial areas
and similar traffic generators within the county; and/or as a route for traffic
between communities; a major thoroughfare.
      PRIMARY STRUCTURE.  (See PRINCIPAL USE BUILDING.)
      PRINCIPAL USE.  The primary use to which the premises are devoted, and
the main purpose for which the premises exist.
      PRINCIPAL USE BUILDING.  A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of the lot on which said building is situated. Standards
recognized by the State Administrative Building Council shall be used to
determine whether a given structure constitutes one or more buildings in cases
where ambiguities exist.
      PRIVATE GARAGE.  (See GARAGE, PRIVATE.)
      PRIVATE SCHOOL.  Private pre-primary, primary, grade, high or preparatory
school or academy approved and licensed by the state for educational purposes.
      PROFESSIONAL OFFICE.  An office of a member of a recognized profession,
such as an architect, attorney, dentist, engineer, physician, surgeon or other
such professional person.
      PROJECT.  A lot or parcel of contiguous land to be developed for use or
uses permitted in accordance with this chapter.
      PUBLIC AGENCY.  An agency or government department acting under the aegis
of and representing an elected or appointed council, commission or other
policy-making or advisory body of federal, state or local government to whom it
is responsible.
      PUBLIC BUILDING.  Any building owned, leased or held by the United
States, the state, the county, a city, town, township, any special district,
school district or any other agency or political subdivision of the state or
the United States, which building is used for governmental purposes.
      PUBLIC GARAGE.  (See GARAGE, PUBLIC.)
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.  Any drainage ditch, street, highway, parkway,
sidewalk, pedestrian-way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement
or other facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established. (All such
improvements shall be properly bonded.)
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A general term denoting land, property or interest
therein, usually in a strip, acquired for or devoted to a transportation or
transmissions facility.
      PUBLIC USES.  Public parks, schools and administrative, cultural and
service buildings, not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the
storage and maintenance of equipment and material.
      PUBLIC UTILITY.  Any person, firm or corporation duly authorized to
furnish electricity, gas, telephone, telegraph, water or sewage systems to the
public under public regulation.
      REAR LOT LINE.  For an interior or corner lot, the term means the lot
line that is opposite the front lot line and farthest from it, except that for
a triangular or other irregularly-shaped lot it means the line ten feet long,
parallel to the front lot line, and wholly within the lot, that is farthest
from the lot line.
      REAR YARD.  A YARD as defined herein, encompassing the horizontal space
between the nearest foundation of a building to a rear lot line and that rear
lot line, extending to the side lines of the lot, and measured as the shortest
distance from the foundation to the rear lot line. The REAR YARD of a corner
lot shall be that yard at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV).  A temporary dwelling for travel, recreation
and vacation use including, but not limited to:
         (a)   CAMPING TRAILER. A collapsible or folding structure, built on a
chassis with wheel and designed to move on the highway and used for vacation or
travel purpose.
         (b)   MOTOR HOME.  A self-propelled vehicle with living accommodations
constructed as an integral part of the vehicle and used for vacation or travel
purposes.
         (d)   TRAVEL TRAILER.  A vehicle identified by the manufacturer as a
travel trailer built on a chassis, designed to move on the highway, and not
designed or approved for permanent residence, but designed for vacation or
travel purposes.
         (c)   PICK-UP COACH.  A structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis or cut-down car.
      REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR.  A land surveyor properly licensed and
registered or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the state.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  An engineer properly licensed and
registered in the state or permitted to practice in the state through
reciprocity.
      REGULATORY FLOOD.  The flood having a peak discharge which can be equaled
or exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year period, as calculated by a
method and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the State Natural
Resources Commission; this flood is equivalent to a flood having a probability
of occurrence of 1% in any given year.
      REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION.  The maximum elevation, as established by the
State Department of Natural Resources, reached by the regulatory flood at the
locations in question relevant to approval of a given subdivision under
consideration.
      REGULATORY FLOODWAY.  (See REGULATORY FLOOD.)
      RESIDENCE.  A building or portion thereof, used primarily as a place of
abode for one or more human beings, but not including hotels, lodging or
boarding houses or tourist homes.
      RESIDENCE, MULTI-FAMILY.  A residential building designed for three or
more families, with the number of families in residence not exceeding the
number of dwelling units provided.
      RESIDENCE, RESORT.  A resort area established for temporary or permanent
living.
      RESIDENCE, SINGLE-FAMILY.  A building, on a separate lot, containing one
dwelling unit with a 950 square foot minimum main floor area exclusive of
garages, carports and open porches, and has a minimum width of 24 feet.
      RESIDENCE, TWO-FAMILY.  A detached residential building containing two
living units, designed for occupancy by not more than two families.
      RESIDENTIAL BLOCK.  (See BLOCK, RESIDENTIAL.)
      RESORT RESIDENCE.  (See RESIDENCE, RESORT.)
      RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS.  Limitations of various kinds on the usage of lots
or parcels of land within a subdivision which are proposed by the subdivider,
and, in the case of public health, safety and welfare by the Commission, that
are recorded with the plat run with the land.
      RESUBDIVISION.  A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision
plat if such
change affects any street layout on such map or area reserved thereon for
public use, or any lot line, or setback; or if it affects any map or plan
legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY.  (See PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.)
      ROAD.  (See STREET.)
      SALE or LEASE.  Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any
possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise,
intestate succession or transfer, of an interest in a subdivision or part
thereof, whether by metes and bounds, deed, contract, plat, map, lease, devise,
intestate succession or other written instrument.
      SCREENING. 
         (a)   Either:
            1.   A strip of at least ten feet wide, densely planted (or having
equivalent natural growth) with shrubs or trees at least four feet high at the
time of planting, of a type that will form a year-round dense screen at least
six feet high; or
            2.   An opaque wall or barrier or uniformly painted fence at least
six feet high.
         (b)   Either division 1. or 2. above shall be maintained in good
condition at all times and may have no signs affixed to or hung in relation to
the outside thereof except as permitted or required under this chapter. Where
required by this chapter a screen shall be installed along or within the lines
of a plot as a protection for adjoining or nearby properties. Earth berms may
be incorporated as part of such SCREENING measures where appropriate.
      SECONDARY APPROVAL.  The stage of application for formal Area Plan
Commission approval of a final plat of a subdivision the construction of which
has been completed or substantially completed which, if approved and signed by
the designated officials may be submitted to the County Recorder for filing.
      SECONDARY ARTERIAL.  A street intended to collect and distribute traffic
in a manner similar to primary arterials, except that these streets service
minor traffic generating areas such as community-commercial areas, primary and
secondary educational plants, hospitals, major recreational areas, churches and
offices, and/or designed to carry traffic from collector streets to the system
of primary arterials.
      SECTION.  A unit of a manufactured home at least ten feet in width and 30
feet in length.
      SECTIONAL HOME OR MODULAR HOME.
         (a)   A structure manufactured in two or more sections or modules and
transported to its permanent location as separate sections or modules. A
sectional/modular home must be installed on a permanent foundation with no
rolling chassis components, and must be at least 24 feet in width.
         (b)   A SECTIONAL/MODULAR HOME is distinguished from a mobile home in
that the running gear, including springs, wheels, axles and other rolling
suspension parts remain a part of a mobile home residence. Such parts have been
removed from a SECTIONAL/MODULAR HOME at the time of placement onto a permanent
foundation.
         (c)   For matters of zoning policy, SECTIONAL/MODULAR HOMES shall be
considered equal to stick-built homes.
      SETBACK.  A line parallel to and equidistant from the relevant lot line
(front, back, side) between which no buildings or structures may be erected as
prescribed in this chapter.
      SHOW CAUSE HEARING.  Hearing before the Area Plan Commission members to
present a violation and show cause as to why legal action should or should not
be taken.
      SIDE LOT LINES.  Any lines separating two lots other than front or rear
lot lines.
      SIDE YARD.  The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building to the side lot line and that side lot line, unoccupied other than by
architectural appurtenances projecting not more than 24 inches into that space;
steps or terraces not higher that the level of the first floor of the building;
and open lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies projecting not over 24 inches into that space. The width of the
required SIDE YARD is measured horizontally at 90 degrees with the side lot
line, from the nearest part of the main building.
      SIGN. Any outdoor announcement, declaration, device, demonstration or
insignia used for directions, information, identification or to advertise or
promote any business, product, activity, services or interests.
         (a)   ADVERTISING SIGN.  Any cloth, card, metal, glass, wooden,
plastic, plaster or stone sign or any other sign, device or structure of any
character whatsoever including a statuary, or on any tree, wall, bush, rock,
post.
            1.   The term “placed” shall include erecting, constructing,
posting, painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving or
otherwise fastening, affixing, or making visible in any manner whatsoever.
            2.   The area of an advertising structure shall be determined as
the area of the largest cross-section of such structure.
            3.   Neither directional warning nor other signs posted by public
officials in the course of their public duties nor merchandise or materials
being offered for sale shall be construed as advertising signs for the purpose
of this chapter.
            4.   A sign which directs attention to any business, product,
activity or service which may or may not be located in the same place as the
sign.
         (b)   BILLBOARD.  An off-premises object, device, display, sign or
structure, or part thereof, displayed outdoors or visible from a public way,
which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract attention to
an object, person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event
or location, or to express a point of view, by any means, including words
letters, figures, design, symbols, advertising flags, fixtures, colors,
illuminations or projected images. Each substantially different face of a
BILLBOARD structure shall constitute a separate BILLBOARD. BILLBOARDS do not
include on-premises commercial or political signage nor small commercial or
noncommercial signs temporarily placed in residential lawns by residents,
owners, contractors, realtors or by or on behalf of political candidates or
issues.
         (c)   BUSINESS SIGN.  A sign which identifies a building or directs
attention to a business product, activity or service manufactured, sold or
offered upon the premises where such sign is located.
         (d)   FACING.  The surface of the sign upon, against or through which
the message of the sign is exhibited.
         (e)   FREE-STANDING SIGN.  Any sign supported by structure or supports
that are placed on or anchored in the ground and that are independent from any
building or other structure.
         (f)   INCIDENTAL SIGN.  A name plate or sign relating to the lot or
use thereof and designating accessory uses, direction, identification,
information or real estate for sale, rent or lease.
         (g)   PORTABLE SIGN.  A sign which is designed to be transportable.
         (h)   PROJECTING SIGN.  A sign suspended from or supported by a
building structure, or column and projecting out more than 18 inches from the
building.
         (i)   SIGN STRUCTURE.  The supports, uprights, bracing and framework
for the sign. In the case of a sign structure consisting of two or more sides,
where the angle formed between and of the sides (or projection thereof) exceeds
15 degrees, each side shall be considered a separate sign structure.
         (j)   SIGN SURFACE.  The entire area within a single, continuous
perimeter enclosing all elements of the sign which form an integral part of the
display.
      SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE.  (See RESIDENCE, SINGLE-FAMILY.)
      SOIL SURVEY, GENERAL. A survey done by a combination of visual inspection
and utilization of existing information about the area which is sufficiently
detailed to delineate soil area of questionable suitability as an adequate
foundation for structures or of questionable suitability for on-site sewage
disposal and areas subject to flooding.
      SOIL SURVEY, OPERATIONAL.  A highly detailed analysis of soil
characteristics (e.g., texture, structure, acidity or alkalinity, permeability,
moisture capacity) and identification of kinds of soil as described and named
in a nationwide system.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT.  A special permit issued upon application by
the Board of
Zoning Appeals for conducting activities which do not conform to the zoning for
the site.
      SPECIAL USE.  The authorization of a use that is designated as such by
this chapter as being permitted in the district concerned if it meets special
conditions, and upon application, is specifically authorized.
      STATE ACTS.  Such legislative acts of the state as they affect these
regulations.
      STATE PLANE COORDINATE SYSTEM.  A system of plans co-ordinates, based
upon the Transverse Mercator Projection for the Eastern Zone of Indiana,
established by the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey for the state.
      STICK-BUILT HOME or CUSTOM-BUILT HOME. A permanent residential structure
constructed of building materials at its site, and built on a permanent
foundation.
      STORAGE WAREHOUSE.  A structure or room for the storage of commodities,
materials or goods.
      STREET. A dedicated public right-of-way, other than an alley, intended
for vehicular traffic, including expressways, parkways, collector streets,
primary thoroughfares, local streets, cul-de-sacs, marginal access streets,
roads, lanes and other public ways.
      STREET, DEAD END.  (See DEAD END STREET.)
      STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH.  The distance between property lines measured
at right angles to the center line of the street.
      STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences,
billboards and poster panels. (Refer to BUILDING.)
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION.  Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or in the
dimensions or configuration of the roof or exterior walls.
      SUBDIVIDER.  Any person who:
         (a)   Having a proprietary interest in land, causes it, directly or
indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision;
         (b)   Directly or indirectly sells, leases or develops, or offers to
sell, lease or develop or advertises for sale, lease or development, any
interest, lot, parcel site, unit, or plat in a subdivision; or
         (c)   Engages directly, or through an agent, in the business of
selling, leasing, developing, or offering for sale, lease, or development of a
subdivision of any interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision;
and
         (d)   Is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct, or
indirect common control with any of the foregoing.
      SUBDIVISION.  The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or if
a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land; provided that a
division of land for agricultural purposes into lots or parcels of ten acres or
more and not involving a new street shall not be deemed a SUBDIVISION. The term
includes RESUBDIVISION and, when appropriate to the contest, shall relate to
the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
      SUBDIVISION AGENT. Any person who represents, or acts for or on behalf
of, a subdivider or developer, in selling, leasing or developing, or offering
to sell, lease or develop any interest, lot, parcel, unit, site or plat in a
subdivision except an attorney-at-law whose representation of another person
consists solely in rendering legal services, and is not involved in developing,
marketing or selling real property in the subdivision.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR.  (See MAJOR SUBDIVISION.)
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR.  (See MINOR SUBDIVISION.)
      SWIMMING POOL.  A pool, pond, lake or open tank containing at least 18
inches of water at any point and maintained by the owner or manager.
      TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT.  Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and intended to be replaced by a
permanent improvement prior to release of the performance bond or turnaround
improvements at the ends of stub streets intended to be replaced when the
adjoining area is developed and the through street connection made.
      THOROUGHFARE PLAN.  The part of the Comprehensive Plan for the county now
or hereafter adopted, which includes a major thoroughfare plan and sets forth
the general or approximate location, alignment, dimensions, identifications and
classifications of existing and proposed highways and other thoroughfares,
located within the jurisdiction of the Commission.
      THROUGH LOTS.  (See LOTS, THROUGH.)
      TOTAL CAR RATION (TCR).  The total number of parking spaces divided by
the number of living units.
      TOURIST HOME or BED AND BREAKFAST. (See BED AND BREAKFAST.)
      TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. 
         (a)   A secondary or higher education facility teaching usable skills
that prepare students for jobs in a trade, business or vocation.
         (b)   Secretarial or business school or college conducted as a
commercial enterprise for teaching trades or technical vocations such as
instrumental music, dancing, barbering or hair dressing, drafting, industrial
and/or technical arts.
      TREE.  Any object of natural growth.
      TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE.  (See RESIDENCE, TWO-FAMILY.)
      UNNECESSARY CLUTTER.  Items, junk or debris littered or strewn in a heap,
or in a confused and disorderly manner.
      USE.  The nature of employment or occupation of a building, structure or
land for a person’s service, benefit or enjoyment.
      USE, OPEN. 
         (a)   The use of land principally for purposes that do not require a
building, or including a building:
            1.   Whose use is unconnected with the use of the remaining land;
or
            2.   Which is incidental to the use of the open land.
         (b)   This definition shall include, but not be limited to, the
following: parking facilities, storage, open space and natural areas.
      USE VARIANCE.  The approval of a use other than that prescribed by this
chapter. Changes of allowed uses are not permitted by this chapter except by
zoning map amendment.
      VARIANCE.  A modification of the specific requirements of this chapter
granted upon request and application by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      VEHICLES, JUNK.  (See JUNK VEHICLES.)
      VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS.  A triangular space at the street corner
of a corner lot, free from any kind of visual obstruction between the heights
of three and 12 feet above the established street grade for the purpose of
observing activity which might obstruct or endanger traffic safety.
      YARD.  A space of a lot which is open, unoccupied and unobstructed by
structures, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      YARD, FRONT.  (See FRONT YARD.)
      YARD, REAR.  (See REAR YARD.)
      YARD SALES.  A sale of items belonging to the resident of the household
or multi-family households.
      YARD, SIDE.  (See SIDE YARD.)
      ZONE MAP.  The words ZONE MAP refer to the current editions of maps
entitled “Jennings County, Indiana Zone Map,” and “Jennings County, Indiana
Jurisdictional Area and Zone Map,” with amendments, and are on file and
available for public inspection in the Area Plan Commission Office of the
county.
      ZONING.  A police power measure, enacted by the governing body of local
governments, in which the community is divided into districts or zones within
which permitted and special uses are established as are regulations governing
lot size, building standards,  placement and other development standards.
Requirements vary from district to district, but they must be uniform within
zoning districts. The zoning ordinance consists of two parts: a narrative text
and a map.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  The person employed and delegated the
primary responsibility of enforcing this chapter and issuing relevant permits.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.020  ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The administration of this chapter is hereby vested in three offices
of the county government as follows:
      (1)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer;
      (2)   The Area Board of Zoning Appeals; and
      (3)   The Area Plan Commission.
   (B)   The Essential Services Committee is established as an advisory
committee to the Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.021  OFFICE OF THE ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Zoning Enforcement Officer and such deputies or assistants that have
been, or shall be, duly appointed shall enforce this chapter, and in addition
thereto, and in furtherance of such authority shall:
   (A)    Issue all building permits and make and maintain records thereof.
Verify possession of septic and sewer tap permit within the county and the City
of North Vernon, before issuing a building permit;
   (B)   Issue all certificates of occupancy, and make and maintain records
thereof;
   (C)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures, use of land to determine
compliance with the terms of this chapter;
   (D)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter including, but
not limited to, maps, amendments, special uses, applications therefor; and
designate on the zoning district map each amendment and special use, as granted
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter;
   (E)   Provide and maintain a public information bureau relative to all
matters arising out of this chapter;
   (F)   Receive, file and forward to the Board of Zoning Appeals applications
for appeals, variances, special uses or other matters on which the Board is
required to pass under this chapter;
   (G)   Upon the approval of the appropriate local public agency being first
obtained, issue permits regulating the erection and use of tents for specific
periods of time for purposes such as: temporary carnivals, churches, voluntary
organizations such as Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, eleemosynary uses, tourists
camps or revival meetings, when the use of tents is not detrimental to the
public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience or general welfare of the
people of the county provided, however, that said tents of operation are in
conformance with all other ordinances and codes of the local public agency; and
   (H)   Determine use, lot and bulk requirements in specific instances, as
stipulated herein.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.022  AREA BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Creation. Under the provisions of state law, an Area Board of Zoning
Appeals is hereby created. The Board of Zoning Appeals as heretofore
established is hereby continued and shall be maintained as to membership in
accordance with such statute.
   (B)   Jurisdiction and authority. The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby
vested with the following jurisdiction and authority:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from and review any provision of this
chapter or amendments thereto invalid, such judgments shall not affect any
other provisions of this chapter or amendment thereto, not specifically
included in said judgment;
      (2)   To hear and decide all applications for variances from the terms
provided in this chapter in the manner prescribed by and subject to the
standards established herein;
      (3)   To hear and decide all applications for special uses in the manner
described by and subject to the standards established herein; and
      (4)   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which is
required to pass under this chapter, as predescribed by state law, as amended.
   (C)   Meeting and rules. All meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
be held at the call of the Chairperson, and at such times as the Board may
determine. All hearings conducted by said Board shall be open to the public.
Any person may appear and testify at a hearing either in person or by
authorized agent or attorney. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indication such facts, prepare findings and keep records of its hearing
and official actions. A copy of every rule or regulation, order, requirement,
decision or determination of the Board shall be filed in the office of the
Zoning Enforcement Officer, and shall be a public record. The Board shall adopt
its own rules and procedures, not in conflict with this chapter or with
applicable state statutes, and select or appoint such officers as it deems
necessary.
   (D)   Finality of decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals. All decisions and
findings of the Board of Zoning Appeals after a hearing, shall, in all
instances, be final administrative decisions and shall be subject to judicial
review.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.023  AREA PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation. The Area Plan Commission is the Area Plan Commission of the
county.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The Area Plan Commission shall have such powers and
duties as prescribed by state law, as amended, and these powers shall include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   To receive from the Zoning Enforcement Officer copies of
applications for special uses and submit reports to the Board of Zoning Appeals
setting forth its findings and recommendations in the manner predescribed in
this title for special uses;
      (2)   To hear all applications for amendments to this chapter in the
manner prescribed by state law and report findings and recommendations to the
appropriate local public agency;
      (3)   To initiate, direct and review, from time to time, studies of the
provisions of this chapter and to make reports of its recommendations to such
local public agencies; and
      (4)   To hear and decide all matters upon which it is required to pass
under this chapter and the  state statutes.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.024  ESSENTIAL SERVICES COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Because of the technical nature of many of the proposals which come
before the Area Plan Commission for approval, it is recommended that an
Essential Services Committee be established to act as a technical review
advisory committee to the Area Plan Commission.
   (B)   The membership and scope of responsibility of the Essential Services
Committee are at the discretion of the Plan Commission.
   (C)   This section suggests minimum requirements to meet the needs of the
Area Plan Commission.
      (1)   Responsibility. The Essential Services Committee shall review all
improvement location permits and shall act as the sketch plat review committee
of the Area Plan Commission for approval of all rezoning. No improvement
location permits shall be issued or preliminary plats forwarded to the Area
Plan Commission without review by the Essential Services Committee. The
Essential Services Committee shall have advisory authority only, and under this
chapter shall make recommendations to the Area Plan Commission and
Administrator. Such recommendations shall be on the adopted standardized form
for such recommendations.
      (2)   Membership. The Essential Services Committee shall consist of the
Administrator of the Area Plan Commission, the Zoning Enforcement Officer, one
appointee of the Area Plan Commission representing the unincorporated areas,
one appointee of the Area Plan Commission representing the incorporated areas
and the following technical representatives as required: law enforcement,
street or highway commissioner, water and sewer or septic commissioner, fire
and safety personnel, a member of the local Building Trades Association and the
local government engineer. Other persons may be asked to participate in the
review process at the invitation of the Administrator. In cases where the land
in question is located within two miles of an incorporated area,
representatives of both the incorporated and unincorporated areas should be in
attendance.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.025  REZONING PROCESS.
   (A)   Applying for a rezoning. The applicant must fill out the rezoning
application and all other supplemental forms that may be required.
(Applications located in §
154.211.)
   (B)   Notify adjacent property owners. It is the applicant’s responsibility
that all costs are paid for and all adjacent property owners must be notified
of the public hearing by certified mail and the affidavit of notice to
interested parties form must be filled out stating that such has been
completed. The card must be returned prior to the hearing.
   (C)   Rezoning exhibit.
      (1)   A rezoning exhibit shall be required for all rezoning requests.
      (2)   A rezoning exhibit shall contain a drawing showing the location of
the land being rezoned which shows adjoining property and existing buildings.
All setbacks lines and building lines required shall be shown and a general
layout of the proposed construction should be provided if available. If
variances are required then it will be required to be noted on the exhibit.
   (D)   Essential Services meeting. The rezoning request is first taken to the
Essential Services Committee where it will be reviewed and recommendation made
to the Area Plan Commission.
   (E)   Area Plan Commission meeting. There will be a public hearing held at
the Area Plan Commission meeting, which will be publicly advertised.
   (F)   Area Plan Commission recommendation. After the Area Plan Commission
makes their recommendation, it is then forwarded to the appropriate legislative
body (i.e., town, city or county) for their consideration. The city’s standard
policy is to review the rezoning at the first meeting and then table it until
the next meeting.
   (G)   Use commitment. The Area Plan Commission may ask for a written
commitment concerning the use or development of the parcel in accordance with
I.C. 36-7-4-613.
   (H)   Fees. (See fee schedule on file with the Area Plan Commission for
fees.)
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.026  DEVELOPMENT (SITE) PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Documentation. The following documentation must be presented with the
application for improvement location or sketch plat review (where a sketch plat
review requires more documentation as set forth in the Subdivision Control
Ordinance set forth in Chapter 153 herein, those requirements shall apply):
      (1)   Name and address of the owner, developer, engineer, landscape
architect and architect;
      (2)   Location of the property by public way, township and section and
including a legal description;
      (3)   A map (may be hand drawn) with the date, scale and north arrow,
showing the location, size and use of all existing and proposed structures and
buildings to be placed on the site. Such map or additional map shall show the
location of the site in relationship to contiguous land parcels and public
rights-of-way;
      (4)   The site layout of the project showing setbacks, public way access
and any parking and loading facilities; and
      (5)   Existing and proposed sewer, water, gas, electric and storm
drainage utilities, including any easements.
   (B)   Plat approval.
      (1)   Any rezoning action by the Area Plan Commission shall include the
approval of a final, detailed plat depicting the use of the site to be approved
by the Area Plan Commission. Any variation in use from the final approved plat
shall constitute a violation and the approval shall be revoked.
      (2)   Spite strips of a non-build area to prevent adjacent property
owners from connecting to rights-of-way, roads, utilities or easements shall
not be allowed in any existing or new development.
      (3)   The use of an easement to get to any tract of land divided off of
another shall be discouraged. Any tracts created off of an easement shall be
reviewed by the Area Plan Commission and not solely by the Executive Director.
All easements shall be a minimum of 50 feet wide and the Area Plan Commission
may require that no other tracts may be created off of an existing easement
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.027  ZONING CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, no permit pertaining to the use of
land or buildings shall be issued by any officer, department or employee of a
local public agency unless the application for such permit has been examined by
the Zoning Enforcement Officer and has affixed to it a certificate of Zoning
Enforcement Officer, indicating that the proposed building or structure
complies with all the provisions of this chapter. Any permit or certificate of
occupancy issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter shall be null
and void.
   (B)   All applications for a use in an industrial district shall have
affixed to it the certification of an architect, structural engineer or
recognized testing laboratory, licensed by the state, certifying that the
building or structure, and the proposed use thereof, complies with all of the
provisions of this chapter respecting performance standards for manufacturing
and similar uses. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall, upon receipt of such
certification, provided all other relevant provisions of this chapter are
complied with, issue the certificate of Zoning Enforcement Officer. Such
certification shall be valid for all purposes. The Zoning Enforcement Officer
shall examine said application and shall advise the architect, structural
engineer or testing laboratory in writing if the building structure or use
thereof, does not in fact comply with the performance standards. Failure of the
architect, structural engineer or testing laboratory to show compliance within
30 days of such notification shall be cause for revocation of the Zoning
Certificate.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.028  OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Certificate of occupancy required. No building or addition thereto,
constructed after the effective date of this chapter, and no addition to a
previously existing building shall be occupied, and no land vacant on the
effective date of this chapter shall be used for any purpose until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
Every certificate of occupancy shall state that the use or occupancy complies
with provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Application for occupancy certificates. Every application for a zoning
certificate shall be deemed to be an application for an occupancy certificate.
Every application for an occupancy certificate for a new use of land where no
building permit is required shall be made directly to the Zoning Enforcement
Officer.
   (C)   Issuance of occupancy certificates. No occupancy certificates for a
building or portion thereof constructed after the effective date of this
chapter shall be issued until construction has been completed and the premises
inspected and certified by the Zoning Enforcement Officer to be in conformity
with the plans and specifications upon which the zoning certificate was based.
No occupancy certification for a building or major alteration, or addition to
an existing building, constructed after the effective date of this chapter,
shall be issued until the premises have been inspected and certified by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer to be in compliance with all the applicable
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located. Pending the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy, a temporary certificate may be issued to be
valid for a period not to exceed six months from its date during the completion
of any major alteration or addition to an existing building or for the partial
occupancy of a new building. The occupancy certificate shall be issued, or
written notice shall be given to the applicant stating the reasons why a
certificate of occupancy cannot be issued, not later than 14 days after the
Zoning Enforcement Officer is notified in writing that the building or premises
are ready for occupancy. (See the permit fee schedule on file with the Area
Plan Commission for the occupancy certificate fee.)
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.029  IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Improvement location permit required. An improvement location permit
is required to assure that conditions have been met prior to construction in
any zoning district. The issuance of such permits is absolutely critical for
the implementation of a zoning ordinance with respect to both temporary and
permanent improvements to structures, buildings and land. This permit is to be
obtained prior to other permits. Construction activities that result in the
disturbance of one or more acres of land will be required to obtain a rule 5
permit from IDEM. (See §
154.212 for the improvement location permit application)
   (B)   Projects and changes requiring improvement location permits.
      (1)   Construction of a new primary use building, accessory building,
other structure or any digging of earth;
      (2)   Demolition of a primary use building, accessory building, sign or
other structure;
      (3)   Any structural alteration involved in the expansion, enlargement,
conversion or repair of an existing primary use building, accessory building or
other structure;
      (4)   Placement, construction, erection or modification of any type of
sign (See §§
154.100 through
154.105 for sign regulations);
      (5)   Moving an existing primary use building, accessory building, sign
or structure from one location to another (either on the same lot or to
another);
      (6)   Construction of decks and above-ground or in-ground swimming pools;
      (7)   Change in the use or condition of the land (except in agricultural
use);
      (8)   Change the use of the land under special uses under §
154.037; and
      (9)   Change the Floodplain District under §
154.057.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   A fence;
      (2)   Interior or exterior maintenance that does not require structural
alterations;
      (3)   Re-roofing that does not require structural alteration;
      (4)   Landscaping, except as required by this or any other ordinance;
      (5)   A portable or mobile storage shed up to 120 square feet in area;
and
      (6)   Agricultural land management practices.
   (D)   Fees. See fee schedule on file with the Area Plan Commission for
improvement location permit fee.)
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.030  STEPS TO OBTAIN A BUILDING PERMIT.
   Under this chapter and the Building Code, the Area Plan Commission is
required to have the below listed forms in every building permit file:
   (A)   Property card, contract or property deed;
   (B)   (1)   Septic permit obtained from Health Department (352-3091); or
      (2)   Sewer tap permit obtained from North Vernon Wastewater Department
(346-1496), Jennings Northwest Regional Utilities (346-5500), the Town of
Vernon Clerk Treasurer (346-7438), or Campbell Township Rural Sewer District
(applicant should be aware of the sewer district in which they are located,
because they may need to obtain a waiver, permit or release from that
district.) (See Figure 2-1 for detailed steps);
      (3)   For new, expansion, change in zoning or change of use of any
commercial or industrial lot, a septic permit must be obtained from the State
Board of Health.
   (C)   Water permit, letter or tap form;
   (D)   Residential:
      (1)   Building design and/or blueprints for stick-built homes; or
      (2)   Floor plan, pier and tie down layout and purchase agreement for
manufactured homes.
   (E)   Commercial or industrial: state design release;
   (F)   (1)   Driveway permit obtained from county garage if drive comes off
county road and there is no existing culvert (346-2967);
      (2)   Obtained from State Department of Transportation (Madison Sub-
District Office) if drive comes off state highway (812-574-4368); or
      (3)   City permit if drive comes off a city street obtained from the City
Street Department (346-1616) or from the City Clerk Treasurer (346-5907);
   (G)   Floodplain: If the building site is in the Special Flood Hazard Area
(zone A), no permit can be given until proper approval from the state is
received;
   (H)   (10   Construction activities that result in the disturbance of one or
more acres of land will be required to obtain a rule 5 permit from IDEM prior
to the issuance of a building permit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b536aff2e9996e3d3d9612f90e3fd44d231420ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-981.jpg]
 
      (2)   Sewer tap permit obtained from North Vernon Wastewater Department
(346-1496), Jennings Northwest Regional Utilities (346-5500), the Town of
Vernon Clerk Treasurer (346-7438), or Campbell Township Rural Sewer District
(Applicant should be aware of the sewer district in which they are located,
because they may need to obtain a waiver, permit or release from that
district.)
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.031  REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   These required improvements pertain to all zoning sections in this chapter
except for residential and agricultural zoning.
   (A)   Subdivisions. For required improvements of subdivisions, see §§
153.100 through
153.108 “Required Improvements.”
   (B)   Storm and surface water drainage.
      (1)   General requirements. The Commission shall not recommend for
approval any subdivision plat, rezoning or site development permit which does
not make adequate provision for storm or flood water runoff channels or basins.
The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent of any
sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by
methods approved by the Commission, and a copy of the design computations shall
be submitted along with the plans. Inlets shall be provided so that surface
water is not carried across or around any intersection, nor for a distance of
more than 600 feet in the gutter or when the encroachment of storm water into
the street disrupts traffic. When calculations indicate that curb capacities
are exceeded at a point, no further allowance shall be made for flow beyond
that point and catch basins or inlets shall be used to intercept flow at that
point. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown for each and every lot
and block. Construction activities that result in the disturbance of one or
more acres of land will be required to obtain a rule 5 permit from IDEM.
      (2)   Nature of storm water facilities.
         (a)   Location. The applicant may be required by the Commission to
carry away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist,
either previously to, or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage
facilities shall be located in the street right-of-way where feasible, or in
perpetual, unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be
constructed in accordance with the county’s construction standards and
specifications.
         (b)   Accessibility to public storm sewers.
            1.   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of storm water,
subject to the specifications of the Commission. However, in subdivisions
containing lots of less than 15,000 square feet in area and in business and
industrial districts, underground storm sewer systems shall be constructed
throughout the subdivision and be conducted to an approved outfall. Inspection
of the facilities shall be conducted upon completion.
            2.   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided
eventually, as determined by the Commission, the developer shall make
arrangements for future storm water disposal by the public utility system at
the time the plat receives final approval. Cost provisions for such connections
shall be incorporated by inclusion in the amount of the performance bond or
equivalent required for the subdivision plat.
         (c)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. A culvert or other
drainage facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The Commission shall determine the necessary size of the facility,
based on the provisions of the required construction standards and
specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development
permitted by this chapter.
         (d)   Effect on downstream drainage areas. The Commission shall
determine the effect of each proposed subdivision on existing drainage
facilities outside the area of the subdivision. County drainage studies
together with such other studies as may be available and appropriate, shall
serve as a guide to needed improvements. All costs that may be needed for any
studies required by the Commission shall be provided by the developer. Where it
is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to the development of the
subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage facility, the
Commission may withhold secondary approval of the subdivision until provisions
(such as a storage facility) have been made for the improvement of said
potential condition in such sum as the Commission shall determine. No
subdivision shall be approved unless adequate drainage from it will be provided
to an adequate drainage water course or facility.
         (e)   Areas of poor drainage. Areas which are not in the floodplain
but contain soils which are subject to flooding may be approved for subdivision
by the Commission, provided that the subdivider fills the affected areas of
said subdivision to an elevation sufficient to place building sites and streets
two feet above ponding levels.
         (f)   Areas of high seasonal water tables. In areas characterized by
soils having a high seasonal water table as determined by the County Soil and
Water Conservation District, lots shall be limited to slab type construction
unless the Commission determines that appropriate engineering techniques will
be applied to alleviate the subsurface problem.
         (g)   Drainage design criteria. The subdivider shall size all storm
sewers, culverts, ditches and other drainage structures based on runoff from a
ten-year storm event using the appropriate intensity/duration curve for the
area and a minimum time of concentration of five minutes. The drainage
calculations shall also include the effect of the subdivision on the existing
downstream drainage facilities outside the subdivided area. The Area Plan
Commission shall also require detention facilities adequate to reduce runoff
from proposed development to the extent that the 50-year post development flow
is stored and the ten-year pre-development flow may be released.
         (h)   Floodway areas. If a subdivision of land is proposed within the
floodplain, floodways shall be preserved and not diminished in capacity by
filling or obstruction, except as approved by the Commission. No residential
building site may be located within the floodway.
         (i)   Floodway fringe areas. Where a subdivision is proposed within an
area of the floodplain designated as floodway fringe, the Commission may
approve such subdivision provided that: all streets are elevated sufficiently
to be above the regulatory flood elevation; all lots for residential usage have
a flood protection grade two feet above the regulatory flood elevation; where
provided, water and sanitary sewer facilities are constructed to eliminate
contamination of or by, flood water; and, approval to fill the area from the
Commission. Lands below the regulatory flood elevation shall not be used for
computing the area requirement for any lot.
         (j)   Floodplain areas. Where a subdivision is proposed within an area
of the floodplain for which floodway and floodway fringe designations have not
been made, the Commission shall not approve such a subdivision unless all
streets are raised sufficiently to be above the regulatory flood elevation; all
lots for residential usage have a flood protection grade of two feet above the
regulatory flood elevation; where provided, public water and sanitary sewer
facilities are constructed to eliminate contamination of or by floodwater; and,
filling to achieve the above will not raise the level of the regulatory flood
elevation more than one-tenth of one foot for that reach of the stream. All
filling in the floodplain must be approved in writing by the State Natural
Resources Commission. Lands below the regulatory flood elevation shall not be
used for computing the area requirement for any lot.
         (k)   Recording of plats in the floodplain and floodway fringe. All
final plats having within their boundaries areas whose elevation is below that
of the regulatory flood elevation shall show and label the regulatory flood
boundary and elevation, as of the date the final plat is drawn, on the final
plat for recording.
      (3)   Dedication of drainage easements.
         (a)   General requirements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a
drainage course, drainage way, channel or stream, a storm water easement or
drainage right-of-way shall be provided, granted or dedicated to the county
conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and of such width an
construction or both as will be adequate for the purpose of both drainage and
maintenance of the right-of-way. Wherever possible, it is desirable that the
drainage be maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate
width for maximum potential volume of flow.
         (b)   Drainage easements.
            1.   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights-of-way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for such drainage
facilities shall be provided across property outside the right-of-way lines and
with satisfactory access to the street. Easements shall be indicated on the
plat. Drainage easements shall be carried from the street to a natural
watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
            2.   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation, easement land on both sides of existing watercourse of a width to
be determined by the Commission.
            3.   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across
private land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be
secured and indicated on the plat.
            4.   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as drainage
ways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be included in
the computations for determining the number of lots allowable under average
density procedures nor for computing the area requirement for any individual
lot.
   (C)   Sidewalks. All development in said zones shall be required to have a
paved sidewalk installed along the street or streets at the discretion of the
Commission.
      (1)   Required improvements.
         (a)   Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated, unpaved
portions of the right-of-way of all streets within the development.
         (b)   Concrete curbs shall be installed as required.
         (c)   Any sidewalk that requires a setback from the road shall have a
grassed or landscaped median strip between them.
         (d)   All sidewalks installed shall have ramps that are handicap
accessible.
         (e)   Concrete shall be four inches by four feet minimum on four
inches of stone or asphalt shall be three inches by six feet minimum on six
inches of stone.
      (2)   Pedestrian access. In order to facilitate pedestrian access from
the street to schools, parks, playgrounds or other nearby streets, the
Commission may require perpetual unobstructed easements. Such easements shall
be indicated on the exhibit.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.032  ENVIRONMENTAL.
   (A)   Water pollution. No authorization of a use under this chapter includes
the authority to discharge liquid or solid wastes into public waters except as
permitted under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit program. The administration of the NPDES program in the state is the
responsibility of the Office of Waste Management within the Department of
Environmental Management under memorandum of agreement with the United States
Environmental Protection Agency. Plans and specifications for proposed sewage
and other waste treatment and disposal facilities must be approved by the State
Department of Environmental Management and/or the State Department of Health,
and any other state department or agency authorized to review and approve such
facilities.
   (B)   Air pollution.
      (1)   Any use that emits any air contaminant as defined in I.C. 13-17
shall comply with applicable state standards concerning air pollution, as set
forth in I.A.C. Title 326.
      (2)   No improvement location permit shall be issued with respect to any
improvement covered by division (B)(1) above until the State Air Pollution
Control Board has certified to the Administrator that the appropriate state
permits have been received by the petitioner, or that the petitioner will be
eligible to receive these permits and that the improvement is otherwise in
compliance with applicable air pollution laws.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.033  VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. The Board, after public hearings, may vary the regulations of
this chapter in harmony with their general purpose and intent, where the Board
makes findings of fact in accordance with the standards hereinafter pre-
described and further, findings that there are practical difficulties or
particular hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
regulations of this chapter. However, the Board shall not grant a variance for
a use not permitted in the district.
   (B)   Applications for variances and notice of hearing. An application for a
variance shall be filed in writing with the Zoning Enforcement Officer. The
application shall contain such information as the Board may require. Notice of
the time and place of public hearing shall be published as required by state
law, as amended.
   (C)   Standards for variances. The Board shall not vary the regulations of
this chapter except upon a determination and finding, based only on the
evidence and testimony presented in public hearing before the Board, that:
      (1)   The grant will not be injurious to the public health, safety and
general welfare;
      (2)   The use or value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be adversely affected;
      (3)   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to
the property involved and does not exist in similar property in the same zone;
and
      (4)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will constitute
an unusual and unnecessary hardship as applied to the property for which a
variance is sought.
   (D)   Conditions. The Board may impose such conditions and restrictions upon
the premises as may be necessary or desirable to comply with the above
standards.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.034  SHOW CAUSE.
   (A)   Upon a summons to appear before the Area Plan Commission, a landowner
or land-occupier may be compelled to show cause, if any he or she has why he or
she should not be held in violation of the promulgated ordinances.
   (B)   The hearing shall be conducted as follows:
      (1)   The Executive Director shall briefly set forth the nature of the
complaint;
      (2)   The landowner, land-occupier or his or her representative shall
briefly set forth his or her position, to-wit: admitting or denying the
allegations and a summary of evidence, if any, to be presented;
      (3)   The Chair shall, at his or her discretion, permit comments from the
floor by interested parties, subject to the Chair’s discretion as to the number
and length of comments in the interest of succinctness;
      (4)   Members shall be recognized by the Chair for the purpose of
comments and to pose questions of any assembled for the purpose of fact-
finding;
      (5)   The landowner, land-occupier or his or her representative shall be
given the opportunity, at the chair’s discretion, to question or cross-examine
the persons giving testimony;
      (6)   The Executive Director shall have the opportunity to briefly
summarize his or her position;
      (7)   The landowner, land-occupier or his or her representative shall
have an opportunity to briefly summarize his or her position;
      (8)   The Chair shall entertain final comments from members, as
recognized, and ask for a motion from a member; and
      (9)   The Chair shall, upon a vote on said motion, shall issue a ruling
and, if requested by a party, include a finding of facts in the record of
proceedings along with the vote on the motion itself.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.035  APPEALS.
   (A)   Scope of appeals. An appeal may be taken to the Board of Zoning
Appeals by any person, firm or corporation, or by any office, department, board
or bureau aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Such an
appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be predescribed by the Board by
filing with the Zoning Enforcement Officer a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall forthwith transmit to the
Board all the papers constituting a record from which the action appealed was
taken.
   (B)   Hearing on appeals. Hearing on appeals shall be pursuant to state law,
as amended and by rules adopted by the Board.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.036  AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners, the Common Council of North Vernon or the Town
Board of Vernon may, from time to time, upon its own motion or upon the
petition of the Area Plan Commission or of interested property owners as
provided by statute, amend the regulations and districts established by this
chapter. Proposals for such amendments may originate upon the petition of the
Area Plan Commission or upon petition of 50% of the property owners in the area
involved in such amendments. In either case, the Board of Commissioners, or the
Common Council, may act upon such amendment only after a report has been
submitted by the Area Plan Commission after public notice and hearing in
accordance with provisions of the state law, as amended.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.037  SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The development and execution of this chapter is based on the
division of the county into districts, within which districts the use of land
and buildings and the bulk and location of buildings and structures in relation
to the land, are substantially uniform.
      (1)   It is recognized, however, that there are certain uses which,
because of their unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified in any
particular district or districts without consideration, in each case, of the
impact of those uses upon neighboring land and of the public need for the
particular use of the particular location.
      (2)   Such special uses fall into two categories:
         (a)   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a public
interest;
         (b)   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual
nature that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to
their impact upon neighboring property or public facilities.
   (B)   Initiation of special use. Any person having a freehold interest in
land, or a possessory interest entitled to exclusive possession, or a
contractual interest which may become a freehold interest or an exclusive
possessory interest, and which is specifically enforceable, may file an
application to use such land for one or more of the special uses provided for
in this chapter in the zoning district in which the land is located.
   (C)   Application for special use. An application and two copies for a
special use shall be filed with the Zoning Enforcement Officer. The application
shall be accompanied by such plans and/or data predescribed by the Board of
Zoning Appeals and shall include a statement in writing by the applicant and
adequate evidence showing that the proposed special use will conform to the
standards set forth herein. Such application may be forwarded from the Zoning
Enforcement Officer to the Area Plan Commission with a request for a report
relative thereto; a copy shall also be forwarded to the Board of Zoning Appeals
who shall hold a public hearing and shall consider the report of the Area Plan
Commission, if any.
   (D)   Hearing on application for special use. Hearing on application for
special use shall be pursuant to state law, as amended, and by rules adopted by
said Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   Decisions. No order of the Board of Zoning Appeals granting a special
use permit shall be valid for a period longer than six months from the date of
such order unless the Board specifically grants a longer period of time or an
improvement location permit is obtained within the six-month period and
construction is diligently being prosecuted to completion.
   (F)   Standards. No special use shall be granted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals unless such Board shall find:
      (1)   That the establishments, maintenance or operation of the special
use will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort
or general welfare;
      (2)   That the special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the general area;
      (3)   That the establishment of the special use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for
uses permitted in the district;
      (4)   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and necessary
facilities have been or are being provided; and
      (5)   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public
streets.
   (G)   Conditions and guarantees. Prior to the granting of any special use,
the Area Plan Commission may recommend and the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
stipulate such conditions and restrictions upon the establishment, location,
construction, maintenance and operation of the special use as deemed necessary
for the protection of the public interest and to secure compliance with the
standards and requirements specified in this section. In all planned
developments, the findings and recommendations of the Area Plan Commission
shall be required. In all cases in which special uses are granted, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall require such evidence and guarantees as it may deem
necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in connection therewith are
being and will be complied with.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.038  FEES.
   (A)   The fees established pursuant to schedule herein shall be received by
the Zoning Enforcement Officer who shall pay into the Non-Reverting Fund of the
county. The fee schedule is on file with the Area Plan Commission. No
governmental entity shall be exempt from paying any fees required by this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person or contractor who starts construction of any building,
structure, dwelling, extension of an existing building or improvement before
obtaining a permit or location improvement permit required by this chapter
shall thereafter, when obtaining the applicable permit, be required to pay a
permit fee equal to two times the required permit fee.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.039  BUILDING CODE.
   The current County Building Code can be obtained separately from the County
Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 07, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.050  AGRICULTURAL ZONING.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   For documentation of issues addressed in this chapter, see Jennings
County Comprehensive Plan, Chapter VI: “Land Use,” November 1, 1994.
      (2)   Changes in zoning in an agricultural district shall require a
record of covenant between the original owner and the new owner stating that
the property is in a predominantly agricultural area, and all farming
operations (including but not limited to livestock and field crop operations),
as described in this chapter, may continue to be practiced in the district. The
new owner (on behalf of himself or herself and all future owners and occupants
of the property) shall waive the right to bring claim against any farmer or
agricultural producer for the practice of any reasonable or necessary farming
or livestock activity, including existing uses or new practices. All such
agreements, covenants and restrictions shall be transferred to future owners
and occupants of the property, and shall be binding upon the applicant and the
applicant’s successors in interest.
   (B)   Establishment of Agricultural Zoning District. The following
agricultural zoning district is established in the county, and is abbreviated
as indicated. Land within the county is classified, divided and zoned into said
district as designated on the zoning maps, which maps are attached hereto,
incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this chapter.
 
Agricultural District Abbreviation
Agricultural          AG
 
   (C)   Agricultural regulations.
      (1)   Agricultural operations. It is the intent and policy of the County
Area Plan Commission that individual farmers be allowed to perform any and all
activities necessary to support the operation of their farms without
unnecessary and burdensome regulations. Therefore, any development which is
proposed within or adjacent to an Agricultural District is expected to
acknowledge and accept the character of the nearby agricultural operation and
its accompanying activities without claim of nuisance.
         (a)   The individual farmer shall be allowed all activities necessary
to support the production of crops and/or livestock within the Agricultural
District.
         (b)   With regard to the storage of agrichemicals, the farmer shall be
allowed to store any chemicals necessary to support agricultural activities
within the Agricultural District, so long as the farmer does not engage in the
retail sale of said chemicals.
         (c)   An agricultural parcel can be subdivided to accommodate a
residence for a family member without submitting a plat.
         (d)   A division of land for agricultural purposes into lots or
parcels of ten acres or more and not involving a new street shall not be deemed
a subdivision, however, these lots or parcels shall meet the residential
standards for lot width to depth ratios. (See § 154.051 “Residential Zoning.”)
         (e)   Roadside stands for retail sale of agricultural produce shall be
permitted so long as the goods sold are locally produced.
         (f)   Agricultural buildings are exempt from a building permit, if
they are being used for agricultural purposes only. Buildings located on less
than ten acres are required to obtain a building permit, regardless of use.
(Reference I.C. 22-12-1-2 for definition of “Agricultural Purpose.”)
      (2)   Confined feeding operations.
         (a)   A confined feeding operation is the confinement for any period
of time of livestock or fowl, whether open or enclosed, to any area less than
required in the following schedule:
Class of Livestock Lot Area                 Shed (Sq. Ft. per Animal)
                   (Sq. Ft. per Animal) (1)
Class of Livestock           Lot Area                 Shed (Sq. Ft. per Animal)
                             (Sq. Ft. per Animal) (1)
Beef breeding cows           100                      80
Commercial flock per hen     8                        4
Dairy cows                   250 (2)                  150
Ewes                         60                       30
Farm laying flock per hen    12                       6
Feeder calves (less than 600 60                       60
lbs)
Feeder calves (600 lbs or    80                       50
greater)
Feeder lambs                 30                       14
Hogs growing (40 - 120 lbs)  10                       6
Hogs finishing (100 - 255    24                       12
lbs)
Sows                         60                       30
(1)   For unpaved lots double the space requirements.
(2)   Double lot size for complete confinement (no exercise lot).
 
         (b)   Confined feeding operations as defined herein shall be operated
in compliance with I.C. 13-18-10 and all applicable laws and regulations of the
state.
         (c)   Confined feeding operations shall be located no less than 1,000
feet from any residential zoning district, nor less than 1,000 feet from any
existing residence in an agricultural zoning district.
      (3)   Junk automobiles (vehicles). Vehicles not in operating condition
and parked at a residence more than 30 days may be removed from the property
with the notification by certified mail to the vehicle owner. These vehicles
will be towed at the owner’s expense to a holding area for 30 days and then
disposed of to a legal salvage yard. Notification and removal will be under
court and police supervision. A show cause hearing will not be held for these
violations.
      (4)   Mobile home. (See the Jennings County Comprehensive Plan Chapter
III “Housing” and Chapter VI “Land Use Patterns” for documentation of issues
addressed.)
         (a)   A mobile home or manufactured home which is less than 15 years
and exceeding 600 square feet of occupied space may only be placed on real
estate owned or being purchased by the applicant, or owned by an immediate
family member and must contain no less than one acre in area, with 150 feet
frontage onto a county road, with a minimum set back line of 50 feet from
property line (75 feet from center of county road) and with a side line set
back of 25 feet. Only mobile homes having sleeping accommodations, a flush
toilet and tub or shower bath shall be occupied by applicant as living
quarters. Mobile homes must be placed in accordance with Council of American
Building Officials (CABO) One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, Appendix A. A
skirt must be erected around the bottom of the mobile home. The sewage (septic)
disposal system for the mobile home must be approved by the County Department
of Health. Upon satisfaction of these requirements a certificate of occupancy
must be obtained from the Director of the Area Plan Commission.
         (b)   A mobile home or manufactured home constructed after January 1,
1981 and more than 15 years old shall receive a certificate of occupancy from
the Director of the Area Plan Commission if it is inspected by the County
Building Inspector or an inspector certified by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development and the inspector certifies, in writing, that it is suitable
and safe for living and meets all of the other requirements above, except the
age requirement. In the event that the permit is denied under this division (C)
(4)(b) the applicant may apply for a variance under this chapter.
      (5)   Unnecessary clutter. No one shall be permitted to heap, litter or
strew in a confused and disorderly manner, any materials or objects on property
owned, leased or rented for agricultural purposes.
      (6)   Yard sales. Each residential household is permitted three yard
(garage) sales per calendar year, not to exceed three days each. Time
established will be sunrise to sunset, and items not sold must be cleared from
the premises within a 24-hour period.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006; Ord. 04, 2008, passed 6-23-2008; Ord. 2021-03A, passed
3-18-2021)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.051  RESIDENTIAL ZONING.
   (A)   Introduction. For documentation of issues addressed in this chapter,
See Jennings County Comprehensive Plan, Chapter III: “Housing” and Chapter VI:
“Land Use,” November 1, 1994.
   (B)   Establishment of residential zoning districts. The following
residential zoning districts are established in the county and are abbreviated
as indicated. Land within the county is classified, divided and zoned into said
districts as designated on the zoning maps, which maps are incorporated herein
by reference and made a part of this chapter.
 
Residential                Abbreviations
Residential Multiple-Family R-MF
Residential Resorts         R-R
Residential Single-Family   R-1F
Residential Two-Family      R-2F
 
      (1)   Residential Single-Family (R-1F) Districts are designed for
detached single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Residential Two-Family (R-2F) Districts are designed for two-family
dwellings commonly known as “duplexes or doubles.”
      (3)   Residential Multiple-Family (R-MF) Districts are designed for
multi-family residences, such as apartments, or any type of residential
building designed to accommodate more than two families.
      (4)   Residential Resort (R-R) Districts are designed for resort living.
   (C)   Residential regulations. The following regulations shall apply to all
land within the residential districts.
      (1)   Regulation conformation after the effective date of this chapter.
         (a)   With the exception of legally established non-conforming uses,
no land, building, structure, premises or part thereof shall be used or
occupied except in conformity with these regulations and for uses permitted by
this chapter.
         (b)   No building, structure, premises or part thereof shall be
constructed, erected, converted, enlarged, extended, reconstructed or relocated
except in conformity with these regulations and for uses permitted by this
chapter. (For steps on how to obtain a building permit, refer to §
154.030.)
         (c)   Provided, however, legally established non-conforming uses may
be reconstructed if damaged or partially destroyed by fire or other disaster
when such damage destruction does not exceed two-thirds of the gross floor area
of the structure or facilities affected.
         (d)   Provided, however, any previously officially recorded, platted
lot having less than the minimum lot area and/or minimum lot width required by
the applicable residential district regulations of this chapter of a one-family
dwelling, shall be deemed an exception to such minimum lot area requirement,
and a one-family dwelling may be constructed thereon provided all other
requirements of this chapter, including minimum yard and setback requirements,
shall be met.
         (e)   Provided further, however, any legally established non-
conforming use, public elementary, junior high or high school (including any
structures, facilities and parking areas accessory thereto) may be constructed,
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or relocated for such public
elementary, junior high or high school use on the same lot or parcel.
      (2)   Performance standards. All uses established or placed into
operation after the effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
following performance standards. No use in existence on the effective date of
this chapter shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with these
standards.
         (a)   Vibration. No use shall cause earth vibrations or concussions
detectable beyond the lot lines without the aid of instruments.
         (b)   Smoke, particulate matter, noxious matter. No use shall emit
smoke of a density exceeding that of a normal residence, nor burn any materials
or chemicals other than standard heating fuels such as fuel oil, propane or
natural gas, with the exception of burning wood in approved residential places.
         (c)   Odor. No use shall emit across the lot lines odor in such
quantity as to be readily detectable at any point along the lot lines and as to
be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause
injury to property.
         (d)   Sound. No use shall produce sound in such a manner as to
endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause injury to property.
Sound shall be muffled so as not to become detrimental due to intermittence,
beat frequency, shrillness or vibration.
         (e)   Heat and glare. No use shall produce heat or glare creating a
hazard perceptible from any point beyond lot lines.
         (f)   Junk automobiles (vehicles).  Vehicles not properly licensed nor
in running condition and parked at a residence more than 30 days may be removed
from the property with the notification by certified mail to the vehicle owner.
These vehicles will be towed at owner’s expense to a holding area for 30 days
and then disposed of to a legal salvage yard. Notification and removal will be
under court and police supervision. A show cause hearing will not be held for
these violations.
         (g)   Unnecessary clutter. No one shall be permitted to heap, litter
or strew in a confused and disorderly manner, any material or objects on
property owned, leased or rented for residential purposes.
         (h)   Waste burning. No use shall accumulate within the lot or
discharge beyond the lot lines any waste matter, whether liquid or solid, in
violation of the applicable standards and regulations of the Department of
Environmental Management or in such a manner as to endanger the public health,
safety or welfare or cause injury to property.
         (i)   Leaf burning. Burning of leaves shall be regulated by the
incorporated community. In unincorporated areas, however, burning of leaves
shall be permitted in residential zones after dawn and before dusk.
         (j)   Yard sales. Each residential household is permitted three yard
(garage) sales per calendar year, not to exceed three days each. Time
established will be sunrise to sunset, and items not sold must be cleared from
the residence within a 24-hour period.
      (3)   Blight. Land that is in a dilapidated, unsafe and unsightly
condition. No one shall be allowed to keep their property in the following
conditions:
         (a)   Unnecessary clutter.
            (1)   Heap, litter, or strew, in a confused and disorderly manner,
any material or objects on property owned, leased, or rented for residential
purposes;
            (2)   Discarded household appliances, furniture, tires, motor and
electric vehicle parts, tools, lawn equipment, construction material, scrap
metal, trailers, hauling equipment, machinery, barrels, grills, plastic, and/or
Styrofoam.
         (b)   Missing or boarded up windows and/or doors;
         (c)   Extreme uncontrolled vegetation in, on, or around the base of
the home such as weeds, vines, trees, grass, etc.;
         (d)   Exterior deterioration or decay such that it leads the property
to be unsafe, unhealthy, or impairs the property values. Specifically gutters
that have fallen or are falling off the structure, eaves, soffits, decks,
porches, wall or roof coverings that do not provide adequate weather protection
or are completely missing;
         (e)   Unhealthy living conditions including, but not limited to, mold,
vermin, pigeons, feces and other harmful conditions
      (4)   Residential development standards.
         (a)   Development standards in residential districts fall into two
categories, dictated by the type of sanitation provided for the residences,
either by the provision of sanitary sewers or provision of septic tank
disposal.
         (b)   Multiple-family residences must have sewer service and are not
permitted to use septic tanks. R-MF special development standards. R-MF
Districts shall meet the following development standards in addition to those
shown above.
            1.   The lot area shall be a minimum of 3,000 square feet for every
living unit.
            2.   Buildings shall occupy not more than 30% of the lot area.
            3.   All parking shall be provided as required in §§
154.120 through
154.126, Off-Street Parking and Loading Facilities.
   TABLE 6-1 RESIDENTIAL LOT LAYOUTS
 R-1F Septic R-1F Sewer R-2F Septic R-2F Sewer R-MF Sewer
             R-1F Septic   R-1F Sewer  R-2F Septic   R-2F Sewer    R-MF Sewer
Lot Size
Minimum lot  1 acre        10,000 sq.  2 acres       15,000 sq.    12,000 sq.
(5)                        ft.                       ft.           ft.
Minimum lot  150 ft.       80 ft.      250 ft.       100 ft.       150 ft.
width (1)(5)
Flag lot
width (at    50 ft.        50 ft.      50 ft.        50 ft.        50 ft.
road)
Off-Street Parking (3)
Minimum      2             2           4             4             1.5 per unit
spaces
Setback & Yards
Minimum
front yard   75 ft.        50 ft.      75 ft.        50 ft.        60 ft.
setback (2)
(6)
Flag lot (8) 50 ft.        50 ft.      50 ft.        50 ft.        50 ft.
Minimum rear
yard setback 25 ft.        25 ft.      25 ft.        25 ft.        20 ft.
(6)
Outbuilding  10 ft.
(7)
Minimum side
yard setback 25 ft.        10 ft.      50 ft.        15 ft.        10 ft.
(6)
Outbuilding
(excluding   10 ft.                                              
swimming
pool)
Structure Size (4)
Maximum      32 ft.        32 ft.      32 ft.        32 ft.        40 ft.
height
Minimum         950 sq. 950 sq. ft. 1,700 sq. ft. 1,700 sq. ft. 600 sq. ft./
floor area   ft.                                                   unit
(1)   Lot width is measured at the building line.
(2)   Any side of a lot that faces a public street or public right-of-way shall
be considered a front and shall have appropriate setback, measured from the
centerline of the road or street. Under no circumstances shall the front yard
setback be less than 25 feet from the right-of-way line.
(3)   Off-street parking spaces as defined in Chapter 2, Section C.
(4)   No singlewide mobile homes are permitted inside the Town of Vernon or
City of North Vernon.
(5)   Corner lots shall be 15 feet wider than the minimum required or 20%
larger in total area. (See Figure 6-4 for visual of a corner lot.)
(6)   Any lot that is adjacent to a state highway shall be 1.5 times the
standard setback for any front that faces the highway.
(7)   Outbuilding setbacks are for all lots including flag lots.
(8)   The front yard setback shall begin at the point where the property
becomes at least 150 ft. wide.
(Refer to figure 6-1 through 6-4 for graphical representations.)
Fences in any residential district shall not exceed six feet in height as long
as it does not obstruct view of public ways and in a way that promotes and
maintains essential values: public safety, protection of individual property
rights, and quality life for residents.
The depth to width ratio of any residential lot may not exceed a maximum of 6
to 1 or a minimum of 2/3 to 1. (Where 1 is the lot width in both cases) (See
Figure 4-1: Depth to Width Ratio for an example.)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b536aff2e9996e3d3d9612f90e3fd44d231420ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-983.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b536aff2e9996e3d3d9612f90e3fd44d231420ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-985.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b536aff2e9996e3d3d9612f90e3fd44d231420ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-987.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b536aff2e9996e3d3d9612f90e3fd44d231420ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-989.jpg]
 
   (D)   Special regulations for mobile homes, recreational vehicles, travel
trailer and tents.
      (1)   Mobile homes, as defined in the definitions section, shall comply
with all regulations for residential districts and shall comply with all
following special regulations for mobile homes.
      (2)   Every mobile home must retain a HUD certification tag, verifying
that the home was constructed in accordance with the regulations of the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
      (3)   Every mobile home shall meet state requirements for tie-downs and
underpinnings.
      (4)   Single-wide mobile homes that are not in mobile home parks must
have the area under each unit, surrounded by a permanent skirt of sufficient
construction so as to cover the area between the bottom of the unit and the top
of the base or ground. Any double-wide mobile home over 16 feet by 80 feet
shall be on a permanent foundation.
      (5)   Trailers and mobile homes shall not be permitted in any district as
accessory buildings.
      (6)   Mobile homes shall not be parked or stored in any district, except
at a permitted trailer sales establishment. Mobile homes, trailers or
recreational vehicles shall not be occupied for dwelling or lodging purposes
except in an approved mobile home park. Travel trailers are not suitable for
use as residences. A mobile home, recreational vehicle or travel trailer,
belonging to a guest of the occupant of a dwelling in an agricultural district
or residential district, may be parked and occupied for lodging purposes on the
same lot as the dwelling for not more than 72 hours in any 30-day period.
      (7)   Trailers, recreational vehicles or mobile homes may be used as
temporary offices or storage space incidental to construction of a building
development for a period of time as such construction is actively undertaken
provided the trailer or mobile home is located on the same lot as the building
development.
      (8)   Tents shall not be erected, used or maintained for dwelling,
lodging or other purposes, except as regulated herein.
   (E)   Special uses - residential districts.
      (1)   Mobile home park.
         (a)   Mobile home park shall be a special use permitted only in R-MF
districts.
         (b)   A mobile home park must be on a lot no less than five acres in
area, with a minimum road frontage of 300 feet. No mobile home shall be nearer
than 50 feet to a county road. There shall be a minimum of two entrances to a
mobile home park, unless a different number is approved by the Area Plan
Commission.
         (c)   Each mobile home site shall be no less than 5,000 square feet in
area and no less than 50 feet in width, with an average of all sites to be no
less than 5,000 square feet in area. Each mobile home lot shall have a minimum
24 feet setback from mobile home park streets and minimum ten feet side and
rear yards.
         (d)   A mobile home park may include accessory uses, buildings or
structures such as a community center, laundry facilities, offices and the
like, provided that they are located, designed and intended to serve only
persons living in the park, and provided that such buildings shall not occupy
more than 10% of the total area of the park, and provided that such uses shall
present no visible evidence of the commercial nature of their uses to areas
outside the park.
         (e)   There shall be a park or playground area equal to at least 8% of
the park area.
         (f)   Sanitary sewage, storm sewer and water systems, service drives,
off-street parking equal to at least two parking spaces for each mobile home,
grading and landscaping, buildings and other improvements shall be constructed
in accordance with development plans and specifications approved by the Board
of Zoning Appeals. No on-street parking is permitted.
         (g)   Street construction shall meet the standards of the Subdivision
Control Ordinance of the county and/or other governmental unit in which the
mobile home park is located. Mobile home park streets shall be paved with
portland cement concrete or bituminous concrete. Such streets shall be a
minimum of 24 feet wide.
         (h)   A paved sidewalk shall be installed on at least one side of each
mobile home park street. The minimum width of such sidewalks is four feet.
         (i)   Surface drainage as approved by the Area Plan Commission shall
be installed and maintained by the applicant or his or her successor in title.
The Area Plan Commission may require curbs and/or gutters in mobile home parks
where, in the opinion of said Commission, drainage of surface water is
insufficient to properly carry such surface water.
         (j)   Outside storage is prohibited. Applicant/developer shall provide
minimum storage space and requirements for storage buildings in the covenants.
         (k)   Each mobile home shall be installed in accordance with Cabo One
and Two Family.
         (1)   All exterior lights shall be located and shielded to prevent
direct illumination outside the park. All refuse containers shall be screened
from view. A dense greenbelt of evergreen trees or shrubs, not less than six
feet in height, shall be located and maintained along all park boundaries.
         (m)   Prior to issuance of an improvement location permit, an
applicant must file with the Director a letter from the State Board of Health
evidencing approval by such Board and compliance with the requirements of such
Board.
      (2)   Bed and breakfast. Operation of a bed and breakfast, as defined in
§
154.008, within a residential district shall be subject to all following
regulations for a bed and breakfast.
         (a)   There shall be on the premises a minimum of one parking space
per rental unit.
         (b)   The bed and breakfast must meet state approved standards for
lodging, food preparation, food service and any other state-regulated
activities conducted in the operation of the bed and breakfast.
         (c)   A single unlighted business sign, not larger than one square
foot, may be posted on the premises.
         (d)   This is a special use within residential districts and will be
revoked if the requirements are violated.
      (3)   Home occupation or home business. Operation of a home occupation,
as defined in §
154.008 within a residential district shall be subject to all regulations of
residential districts and shall be subject to the following regulations for a
home occupation.
         (a)   A single unlighted business sign, not larger than five square
feet, may be posted on the premises.
         (b)   The business must provide off-street parking for clients/
customers, as well as for every employee. At such time as the parking needs of
the business exceed the parking available on the residential premises, the
business shall no longer be considered a home occupation and must operate in a
commercial district.
         (c)   A home occupation shall not employ more than two non-family
employees. Businesses with more than two non-family employees must operate in a
commercial district. Off-street parking shall be provided at one space for
every employee plus two additional spaces for customers, clients and suppliers.
         (d)   A home occupation/business that is located in a building not
attached to the residence shall be located within 100 feet and on the same
property as the residence.
         (e)   A home occupations/business permit shall be revoked if any of
the said requirements are violated. If a property changes ownership or the
business type changes, the owner must re-apply for a home occupations/business
permit.
      (4)   Residential facility for the mentally ill. Any residential facility
for the mentally ill, including group homes, shall be required to submit
documentation showing their geographic location by map or address. This
information will be used to determine if the property is at least 3,000 feet
from any other  facility for the mentally ill.
   (F)   Violation enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   Enforcement.
         (a)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates the ordinances of
the Jennings County Code shall be liable and subject to the enforcement and
penalties of the Jennings County Area Plan Commission (APC).
         (b)   The enforcement and penalties for violations to the Jennings
County Zoning Ordinance shall adhere to the following structure:
            1.   Violation classification.
               a.   A-Level infraction (low);
               b.   B-Level (medium);
               c.   C-Level (high).
            2.   A-Level. Violations that can be remediated quickly and by
nature are not extremely detrimental to the safety and well-being of the
owners, tenants or general public. Ordinances include:
               a.   Grass Ordinance violations;
               b.   Extreme overgrowth of vegetation;
               c.   Trash, litter, or debris;
               d.   Unoperable/unlicensed vehicles.
            3.   B-Level. Violations that are more serious in nature and place
the homeowner, tenant or general public in a safety or health hazard. These
violations can be remedied in a 30- to 60-day period so long as the violator is
actively working with the APC to resolve the problem. Ordinances include:
               a.   Blight.
            4.   C-Level. Violations that are extremely severe to the point
that the property is condemnable and/or uninhabitable. These properties are
typically, but not always, vacant or abandoned. Ordinances include:
               a.   Extreme deterioration such as holes in roof, structurally
unsafe, extreme health hazard due to rodents, mold, and or sewage;
               b.   Violations to the Animal Control Ordinance;
               c.   Fire damage of longer than 60 days.
      (2)   Violation enforcement process per classification.
         (a)   A-Level.
            1.   Letter with 15 days to resolve violation or to contact APC
Office to address the issue;
            2.   Director has discretion to allow more time or connect them
with resources if they qualify;
            3.   Attorney files legal action after 15 days if issue is not
resolved or more time has not been granted by the APC Director;
            4.   If case is not dismissed prior to the court hearing, a fine of
no less than $100 and no more than $1,500 will be assessed at the court
hearing;
            5.   If fine is not paid, then it will be assessed to the property
taxes.
         (b)   B-Level.
            1.   Letter with 30 days to resolve violation or to contact APC
Office to address the issue;
            2.   Director has discretion to allow more time or connect them
with resources if they qualify;
            3.   If they do not comply within 30 days or the APC director has
not allotted them more time, then they will be brought to the next APC "Show
Cause" hearing;
            4.   If case is not dismissed prior to the court hearing, a fine of
no less than $100 and no more than $1,500 will be assessed at the court
hearing;
            5.   If fine is not paid, then it will be assessed to the property
taxes.
         (c)   C-Level.
            1.   Letter with 30 days to resolve violation or to contact APC
Office to address the issue;
            2.   Director has discretion to allow more time or connect them
with resources if they qualify;
            3.   Attorney files legal action after 30 days if issue is not
resolved or more time has not been granted by the APC Director;
            4.   If case is not dismissed prior to the court hearing, a fine of
no less than $100 and no more than $1,500 will be assessed at the court
hearing;
            5.   If fine is not paid, then it will be assessed to the property
taxes.
         (d)   Repeat violators.
            1.   Same process as above but starting fines will be increased at
a price determined by the APC Director;
            2.   Level-B violations will not go to "Show Cause", but rather
legal action will be filed with the court if they don't comply within the 30
days;
            3.   On any violation the Director has the discretion to bring any
case to the APC Board at their "Show Cause" meetings.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006; Ord. passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 04, 2008, passed 6-23-2008;
Ord. 2021-03A, passed 3-18-2021)    Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.052  COMMERCIAL ZONING.
   (A)   Introduction. For documentation of issues addressed in this chapter,
see Jennings County Comprehensive Plan, Chapter VI: “Land Use,” November 1,
1994.
   (B)   Establishment of commercial zoning districts. The following commercial
zoning districts are established in the county and are abbreviated as
indicated. Land within the county is classified, divided and zoned into said
districts as designated on the zoning maps, which maps are incorporated herein
by reference and made a part of this chapter.
 
Commercial Districts         Abbreviations
Commercial Historic Downtown C-HD
Commercial Office            CO
Commercial Planned Business  C-PB
Commercial Single Site       C-SS
 
      (1)   Commercial Planned Business (C-PB) Districts are designed for those
high intensity, high traffic commercial uses which are least suited to mixing
with residential uses because of the traffic they generate, parking needs or
other possible negative impacts on residences. These districts may contain
several adjacent businesses.
      (2)   Commercial Single Site (C-SS) Districts are for medium intensity
commercial uses with a single commercial lot adjacent to residential or
commercial districts, or entirely within predominantly residential areas. These
districts should include only those commercial uses which are conducted
entirely indoors in a permanent structure, which require no outside storage,
and which fully provide for off-street parking of employees and customers.
      (3)   Commercial Historic Downtown (C-HD) Districts are for those
buildings and sites within a downtown area which were approved and developed
prior to the date of enactment of this chapter and which do not meet the
development standards of C-PB and C-SS Districts. This classification is for
existing development only, and no new development shall be eligible for C-HD
zoning. The storefront ground level of any mixed-use building in this district
may only contain a commercial use.
      (4)   Commercial Office (C-O) Districts are designed for low intensity
businesses adjacent to residential or commercial zones which have office
operations only, and no “over-the-counter” retail trade. This classification
may include professional offices.
   (C)   Commercial regulations. The following regulations shall apply to all
land within the commercial districts.
      (1)   Regulation conformation after the effective date of this chapter.:
         (a)   With the exception of legally established non-conforming uses,
no land, building, structure, premises or part thereof shall be used or
occupied except in conformity with these regulations and for uses permitted by
this chapter.
         (b)   No building, structure, premises or part thereof shall be
constructed, erected, converted, enlarged, extended, reconstructed or relocated
except in conformity with these regulations and for uses permitted by this
chapter. (For steps on how to obtain a building permit, refer to §
154.030.)
         (c)   Provided, however, legally established non-conforming uses may
be reconstructed if damaged or partially destroyed by fire or other disaster;
         (d)   Provided, however, any previously officially recorded, platted
lot having less than the minimum development standards required by the
applicable commercial district regulations of this chapter shall be approved as
a non-conforming use.
         (e)   Provided further, however, any legally established non-
conforming use, public elementary, junior high or high school (including any
structures, facilities and parking areas accessory thereto) may be constructed,
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or relocated for such public
elementary, junior high or high school use on the same lot or parcel.
      (2)   Performance standards. All uses established or placed into
operation after the effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
following performance standards. No use in existence on the effective date of
this chapter shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with these
standards.
         (a)   Vibration. No use shall cause earth vibrations or concussions
detectable beyond the lot lines without the aid of instruments.
         (b)   Smoke, particulate matter, noxious matter. No use shall emit
smoke of a density exceeding that of a normal commercial establishment. No use
shall be permitted to burn any materials or chemicals other than standard
heating fuels such as fuel oil, propane or natural gas, with the exception of
food preparation facilities. Commercial operations which require the burning of
other materials must be approved by the Area Plan Commission.
         (c)   Odor. No use shall emit across the lot lines odor in such
quantity as to be readily detectable at any point along the lot lines and as to
be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause
injury to property.
         (d)   Sound. No use shall produce sound in such a manner as to
endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause injury to property.
Sound shall be muffled so as not to become detrimental due to intermittence,
beat frequency, shrillness or vibration.
         (e)   Heat and glare. No use shall produce heat or glare creating a
hazard perceptible from any point beyond lot lines.
         (f)   Waste matter. No use shall accumulate within the lot or
discharge beyond the lot lines any waste matter, whether liquid or solid, in
violation of the applicable standards and regulations of the Department of
Environment Management or in such a manner as to endanger the public health,
safety or welfare or cause injury to property.
         (g)   Junk automobiles (vehicles). Vehicles not in operating condition
and parked at a commercial location more than 30 days may be removed from the
property with the notification by certified mail to the vehicle owner. These
vehicles will be towed at owner’s expense to a holding area for 30 days and
then disposed of to a legal salvage yard. Notification and removal will be
under court and police supervision. A show cause hearing will not be held for
these violations.
         (h)   Unnecessary clutter. No one shall be permitted to heap, litter
or strew in a confused and disorderly manner, any materials or objects on
property owned, leased or rented for commercial purposes.
         (i)   Burning of materials. No use shall permit burning of any
materials or chemicals except as fuels in approved heating or manufacturing
process facilities.
      (3)   Commercial development standards.
         (a)   Transitional yards. Where a commercial lot abuts a residential
lot, the commercial lot shall have a transitional yard adjacent to the
residential lot at least equal in width to the required yard for that type of
residential district. Where an alley separates a commercial lot from a
residential lot, the commercial lot shall have a yard adjacent to the alley of
not less than five feet in width.
         (b)   Parking. All commercial districts except C-HD shall provide
parking as required in the “off-street parking and loading facilities” §§
154.120 through
154.126, oriented such that parking and maneuvering are conducted entirely off
public thoroughfares. In C-HD Districts no use, new or existing, or the parking
area currently provided.
   TABLE 7-1: COMMERCIAL LOT LAYOUTS
 C-PB C-SS C-HD(4) C-O
                C-PB           C-SS             C-HD(4)       C-O
Lot Size
                (Sewer)        (Sewer)                        (Sewer)
Minimum lot     20,000 sq. ft. 20,000 sq. ft.   7,200 sq. ft. 10,000 sq. ft.
area            (Septic) 2     (Septic) 2 acres               (Septic) 2 acres
                acres
Minimum lot     125 ft.        100 ft.          60 ft.        80 ft.
width (1)
Setback and Yards
Minimum open    10%            15%              0             20%
space (3)
Minimum rear    25 ft.         25 ft.           0             25 ft.
yard (3) (5)
Minimum setback 50 ft.         50 ft.           0             25 ft.
(2) (3) (5)
Minimum side    50 ft.         25 ft.           0             25 ft.
yard (3) (5)
Structure Size
Maximum height  35 ft.         35 ft.           35 ft.        35 ft.
Minimum area    1,000 sq. ft.  1,000 sq. ft.    0             1,000 sq. ft.
per floor (3)
Minimum floor   1,200 sq. ft.  1,000 sq. ft.    0             1,200 sq. ft.
area (3)
(1)   Lot width is measured at the building line.
(2)   Any side of a lot that faces a public street or public right-of-way
shall be considered a front and shall have appropriate setback, measured from
the centerline of the road or street. Under no circumstances shall the front
yard setback be less than 25 feet from the right-of-way line.
(3)   C-HD has no requirements for existing structures. Building modifications
require approval by the Area Plan Commission.
(4)   Only a commercial use shall be permitted on the storefront ground level
of any mixed use structure within the C- HD zone.
(5)   Any lot that is adjacent to a state highway shall be 1.5 times the
standard setback for any front that faces the highway.
All new construction shall include the required improvements as listed in §
154.031.
The depth to width ratio of any commercial lot may not exceed a maximum of 4
to 1 or a minimum of 3/4 to 1. (Where 1 is the lot width in both cases) (See
Figure 4-1: Depth to Width Ratio for an example.)
 
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006; Ord. 04, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.053  INDUSTRIAL ZONING.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   For documentation of issues addressed in this chapter, see Jennings
County Comprehensive Plan, Chapter VI: “Land Use,” November 1, 1994.
      (2)   Generally, it is the intent and policy of the Area Plan Commission
that heavy industries are those that meet either of two criteria: the
manufacture of products from raw materials and the requirements of outside
storage of process materials and/or products. Light industries are generally
those which manufacture products by assembling components or processing
semifinished products and do not require outside storage. Other criteria, such
as emissions, water consumption, noise, vibrations and other factors
established as “nuisances” will also guide the Commission in distinguishing
heavy and light industrial uses.
   (B)   Establishment of industrial zoning districts. The following industrial
zoning districts are established in the county, and are abbreviated as
indicated. Land within the county is classified, divided and zoned into said
districts as designated on the zoning maps, which are incorporated herein by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
 
Industrial Districts Abbreviations
Heavy Industrial     I-H
Light Industrial     I-L
 
      (1)   The I-L District is designed for those industries which carry on
their entire operation within a completely enclosed building in such a manner
that no nuisance factor is created or emitted outside an enclosed building. No
storage of raw materials, manufactured products or any other materials is
permitted in the open space around the buildings. Loading and unloading berths
are enclosed or shielded by a solid screening. This district has strict
controls on the intensity of land use, providing protection of each industry
from the encroachment of other industries. All uses in the I-L District shall
conform to the I-L development standards and performance standards.
      (2)   The I-H District is for those industries that meet either of two
criteria: the manufacture of products from raw materials or the necessity of
outside storage of material and/or products. Manufacturing, mining or other
industrial processes which produce emissions, water consumption, noise,
vibrations, the storage of potentially hazardous materials and other factors
established as “nuisances,” may be designated by the Commission as heavy
industry.
   (C)   Industrial regulation. The following regulations shall apply to all
land within the industrial districts.
      (1)   Regulation conformation after the effective date of this chapter.
         (a)   With the exception of legally established non-conforming uses,
no land, building, structure, premises or part thereof shall be used or
occupied except in conformity with these regulations and for uses permitted by
this chapter.
         (b)   No building, structure, premises or part thereof shall be
constructed, erected, converted, enlarged, extended, reconstructed or relocated
except in conformity with these regulations and for uses permitted by this
chapter. (For steps on how to obtain a building permit, refer to §
154.030.)
         (c)   Legally established non-conforming uses may be reconstructed if
damaged or partially destroyed by fire or other disaster when such damage or
destruction does not exceed two-thirds of the gross floor area of the structure
or facilities affected.
         (d)   Any previously officially recorded, platted lot having less than
the minimum lot area and/or minimum lot width required by the applicable
industrial district regulations of this chapter shall be deemed an exception to
such minimum lot area requirement; and an industry may be constructed thereon
provided all other requirements of this chapter, including minimum yard and
setback requirements, shall be met.
         (e)   Any legally established non-conforming use, public elementary,
junior high or high school (including any structures, facilities and parking
area accessory thereto) may be constructed, erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or relocated for such public elementary, junior high or high
school use on the same lot or parcel.
      (2)   Performance standards. All uses established or placed into
operation after the effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
following performance standards. No use in existence on the effective date of
this chapter shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with these
standards.
         (a)   Vibration. No use shall cause earth vibrations or concussions
detectable beyond the lot lines without the aid of instruments.
         (b)   Smoke, particulate matter, noxious matter. No use shall emit
smoke of a density equal to or greater than No. 1 according to the Ringlemann
Scale, as now published and used by the U.S. Bureau of Mines, and subject to
the regulatory limitations of the State Department of Environmental Management
(IDEM). The emission of smoke, particulate matter or noxious or toxic gases
shall conform to the standards and regulations of IDEM and the State Air
Pollution Control Board.
         (c)   Odor. No use shall emit across the lot lines odor in such
quantity as to be readily detectable at any point along the lot lines and as to
be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause
injury to property.
         (d)   Sound. No use shall produce sound in such a manner as to
endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause injury to property.
Sound shall be muffled so as not to become detrimental due to intermittence,
beat frequency, shrillness or vibration.
         (e)   Heat and glare. No use shall produce heat or glare creating a
hazard perceptible from any point beyond lot lines.
         (f)   Waste matter. No use shall accumulate within the lot or
discharge beyond the lot lines any waste matter, whether liquid or solid, in
violation of the applicable standards and regulations of the Department of
Environmental Management or in such a manner as to endanger the public health,
safety or welfare or cause injury to property.
         (g)   Junk automobiles (vehicles). Vehicles not in operating condition
and parked at a commercial location more than 30 days may be removed from the
property with the notification by certified mail to the vehicle owner.
            1.   These vehicles will be towed at the owner’s expense to a
holding area for 30 days and then disposed of to a legal salvage yard.
            2.   Notification and removal will be under court and police
supervision. A show cause hearing will not be held for these violations.
         (h)   Unnecessary clutter. No one shall be permitted to heap, litter
or strew in a confused and disorderly manner, any materials or objects on
property owned, leased or rented for commercial purposes.
         (i)   Burning of materials. No use shall permit burning of any
materials or chemicals except as fuels in approved heating or manufacturing
process facilities.
      (3)   Development standards.
         (a)   Drainage and runoff. See §
154.031 for drainage and runoff requirements.
         (b)   Parking. All parking shall be provided as required in §§
154.120 through
154.126.
         (c)   Transitional yards. Where an industrial lot abuts a residential
lot or commercial lot, the industrial lot shall have a transitional yard
adjacent to the residential or commercial lot at least equal in width to the
required yard for that type of residential or commercial district.
   Table 8-1: Industrial Lot Layouts
 I-L I-H
                                      I-L            I-H
Lot Size
Minimum lot area                      Sewer .5 acres Sewer 1 acre
                                      Septic 5 acres Septic 10 acres
Minimum lot width (1)                 100 feet       200 feet
Setback and Yards
Maximum building coverage of lot      40%            30%
Minimum open space                    25%            25%
Minimum rear yard                     25 feet        50 feet
Minimum setback(2)                    50 feet        100 feet
Minimum setback abutting arterial (2) 100 feet       150 feet
Minimum side yard                     25 feet        50 feet
Structure Size
Maximum height                        40 feet        40 feet
Minimum area per floor                1,000 sq. ft.  1,000 sq. ft.
Minimum floor area                    1,200 sq. ft.  1,200 sq. ft.
(1)   Lot width is measured at the building line.
(2)   Any side of a lot that faces a public street or public right-of-way
shall be considered a front and shall have appropriate setback, measured from
the centerline of the road or street. Under no circumstances shall the front
yard setback be less than 25 feet from the right-of-way line.
(3)   Minimum setback to any residential lot shall be 100 feet.
All new construction shall include the required improvements as listed in §
154.031.
The depth to width ratio of any industrial lot may not exceed a maximum of 4
to 1 or a minimum of 1 to 1. (Where 1 is the lot width in both cases) (See
Figure 4-1: Depth to Width Ratio for an example.)
 
   (D)   Special uses-Industrial Districts.
      (1)   Landfills.
         (a)   Landfills shall be permitted only as a special use in Heavy
Industrial (I-H) Districts and shall comply with all regulations of industrial
districts.
         (b)   Before zoning for a landfill can be received, the applicant must
have approval from the State Department of Environmental Management.
         (c)   Landfills must have 1,500 feet setback from all public roads.
         (d)   Landfills must be visually screened throughout the year from all
roads or thoroughfares and commercial or residential districts.
         (e)   This chapter shall comply with all IDEM setbacks from public
roads.
      (2)   Salvage yards and impoundment yards.
         (a)   A salvage yard is any place at which personal property is or may
be salvaged for reuse, resale or reduction or similar disposition and is owned,
possessed, collected, accumulated, dismantled or sorted; including, but not
limited to, used or salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, lumber,
millwork, brick and similar property except animal matter; and used motor
vehicles, machinery or equipment which is used, owned or possessed for the
purposes of wrecking or salvaging parts therefrom.
         (b)   An impoundment yard is any place where automobiles or other
vehicles not being operated are held by the police, auto towing company or
other authority or individual for confiscation, evidence, bond, disposition or
storage.
         (c)   Salvage yards and impoundment yards shall be permitted only in
Heavy Industrial (I-H) Districts and shall comply with all regulations of
industrial districts.
         (d)   Salvage yards and impoundment yards must be visually screened
throughout the year from all roads or thoroughfares and commercial or
residential districts.
      (3)   Airports.
         (a)   Any location, including necessary buildings, either on land,
water or structure, which is designed or used for landing and taking-off of
aircraft, shall be located in a Heavy Industrial (I-H) District. Airports are a
special use within I-H Districts, and approval of the Area Plan Commission is
required prior to development or use of property as an airport.
         (b)   All airports must comply with the regulations and policies of
the Federal Aviation Administration and various other federal and state
agencies with applicable jurisdiction. Documentation of such compliance may be
required by the Area Plan Commission prior to the approval of the special use.
The local airport ordinance is located in §
154.056.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006; Ord. 04, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.054  INSTITUTIONAL ZONING.
   (A)   Introduction. The Institutional Zoning District is intended to provide
a district for facilities devoted to serving the public. It is unique in that
the primary objective of uses within this district is the provision of
services, frequently on a non-profit basis, rather than the sale of goods or
services. It is intended that uses within such a district will be compatible
with adjoining development, and they normally will be located on an arterial
street or thoroughfare.
   (B)   Establishment of institutional districts. To identify the nature of
institutional districts on zoning maps, they shall be classified as the
following zones:
 
Institutional Districts Abbreviations
Institutional           INS
Institutional Utilities INS-UTIL
 
      (1)   Institutional Districts (INS) are designed for buildings and land
that are developed for an institutional use. These permitted institutional uses
include:
         (a)   Public or private schools;
         (b)   Place of worship;
         (c)   Libraries, community centers, museums and public art galleries;
         (d)   Public parks and recreational areas;
         (e)   Public administrative offices and public service buildings,
including fire and police stations;
         (f)   Cemetery;
         (g)   Funeral homes;
         (h)   Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes and clinics; and
         (i)   Utility plants greater than 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Institutional Utility Districts (INS-UTIL) are designed for the
above ground or underground construction of supplementary utility uses of a
size less than 20,000 square feet and greater than 1,000 square feet. These
permitted institutional utility uses include:
         (a)   Cell or radio towers or antennas;
         (b)   Water towers;
         (c)   Pumping stations;
         (d)   Stand pipes;
         (e)   Substations; and
         (f)   Telephone exchanges.
      (3)   Exempt utilities. The following utilities are exempt from the
Institutional Zoning District:
         (a)   Strip utilities, lines or pipes; and
         (b)   Utilities under 1,000 square feet.
   (C)   Institutional regulations. The following regulations shall apply to
all land within the institutional districts.
      (1)   Regulation conformation after the effective date of this chapter.
         (a)   With the exception of legally established non-conforming uses,
no land, building, structure, premises or part thereof shall be used or
occupied except in conformity with these regulations and for uses permitted by
this chapter.
         (b)   No building, structure, premises or part thereof shall be
constructed, erected, converted, enlarged, extended, reconstructed or relocated
except in conformity with these regulations and for uses permitted by this
chapter. (For steps on how to obtain a building permit, refer to §
154.030.)
         (c)   Legally established non-conforming uses may be reconstructed if
damaged or partially destroyed by fire or other disaster.
         (d)   Any previously officially recorded, platted lot having less than
the minimum development standards required by the applicable institutional
district regulations of this chapter shall be approved as a non-conforming use.
      (2)   Performance standards. All uses established or placed into
operation after the effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
following performance standards. No use in existence on the effective date of
this chapter shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with these
standards.
         (a)   Vibration. No use shall cause earth vibrations or concussions
detectable beyond the lot lines without the aid of instruments.
         (b)   Smoke, particulate matter, noxious matter. No use shall emit
smoke of a density exceeding that of a normal institutional establishment. No
use shall be permitted to burn any materials or chemicals other than standard
heating fuels such as fuel oil, propane or natural gas, with the exception of
food preparation facilities. Institutional operations which require the burning
of other materials must be approved by the Area Plan Commission.
         (c)   Odor. No use shall emit across the lot lines odor in such
quantity as to be readily detectable at any point along the lot lines and as to
be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause
injury to property.
         (d)   Sound. No use shall produce sound in such a manner as to
endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause injury to property.
Sound shall be muffled so as not to become detrimental due to intermittence,
beat frequency, shrillness or vibration.
         (e)   Heat and glare. No use shall produce heat or glare creating a
hazard perceptible from any point beyond lot lines.
         (f)   Waste matter. No use shall accumulate within the lot or
discharge beyond the lot lines any waste matter, whether liquid or solid, in
violation of the applicable standards and regulations of the Department of
Environment Management or in such a manner as to endanger the public health,
safety or welfare or cause injury to property.
         (g)   Junk automobiles (vehicles). Vehicles not in operating condition
and parked at a commercial location more than 30 days may be removed from the
property with the notification by certified mail to vehicle owner. These
vehicles will be towed at the owner’s expense to a holding area for 30 days and
then disposed of to a legal salvage yard. Notification and removal will be
under court and police supervision. A show cause hearing will not be held for
these violations.
         (h)   Unnecessary clutter. No one shall be permitted to heap, litter
or strew in a confused and disorderly manner, any materials or objects on
property owned leased or rented for commercial purposes.
         (i)   Burning of materials. No use shall permit burning of any
materials or chemicals except as fuels in approved heating or manufacturing
process facilities.
      (3)   Institutional development standards.
         (a)   Transitional yards. Where an institutional lot abuts a
residential lot, the institutional lot shall have a transitional yard adjacent
to the residential lot at least equal in width to the required yard for that
type of residential district. Where an alley separates an institutional lot
from a residential lot, the institutional lot shall have a yard adjacent to the
alley of not less than five feet in width.
         (b)   Parking. All institutional districts shall provide parking as
required in the “off-street parking and loading facilities” §§
154.120 through
154.126, oriented such that parking and maneuvering are conducted entirely off
public thoroughfares.
   Table 9-1: Industrial Lot Layouts
 INS INS-UTIL
                             INS               INS-UTIL
Lot Size
Minimum corner lot width (1) 125 ft.           35 ft.
Minimum lot area             Sewer .5 acres    Sewer 1 acre
                             Septic 5 acres    Septic 10 acres
Minimum lot width (1)        100 feet          200 feet
Setback and Yards
Minimum open space           20%               30%
Minimum rear yard(2)         25 feet           5 feet
Minimum setback(2) (3)       50 feet           20 feet
Minimum side yard (2)        25 feet           5 feet
Structure Size
Maximum height               35 feet (4)       20 feet (4)
                             150 feet (5)      150 feet (5)
Minimum area per floor       2,000 sq. ft. (6) 150 sq. ft. (6)
Minimum floor area           2,000 sq. ft. (6) 150 sq. ft. (6)
(1)   Lot width is measured at the building line.
(2)   Any side of a lot that faces a public street or public right-of-way
shall be considered a front and shall have appropriate setback, measured from
the centerline of the road or street. Under no circumstances shall the front
yard setback be less than 25 feet from the right-of-way line.
(3)   Any lot that is adjacent to a state highway shall be 1.5 times the
standard setback for any front that faces the highway.
(4)   For building if part of installation.
(5)   For towers.
(6)   If a building is part of the installation.
All new construction shall include the required improvements as listed in §
154.031.
 
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006; Ord. 04, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.055  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (PUD).
   (A)   Introduction. The I.C. 36-7-4-1500 series allows a zoning ordinance to
provide for Planned Unit Developments (PUDs). This district is intended to
provide more development flexibility than is possible through the application
of traditional zoning regulations. In recognition of the fast changing design
and technology in the housing market, it is deemed necessary to meet those
changes in a manner that will be consistent with the best interests of the
county.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   The goal of this section is to provide a variety of environmentally
appropriate residential, nonresidential, and mixed-use developments to meet the
needs of the community.
      (2)   Statement of purpose:
         (a)   To encourage a more creative approach in land and building site
planning;
         (b)   To encourage an efficient, aesthetic and desirable use of open
space;
         (c)   To promote variety in the physical development pattern of the
community;
         (d)   To achieve flexibility and incentives for residential
development, which will produce a wider range of choice;
         (e)   To encourage renewal of older areas where new development and
restoration are needed to revitalize the areas;
         (f)   To permit special consideration of property with unique features
such as historical significance, unusual topography, landscape amenities, and
size and shape;
         (g)   To recapture by-passed land so poorly planned and developed as
to be a public liability; and
         (h)   To simplify processing of development proposals for developers
and the Commission by providing for concurrent review of land use, subdivision,
public improvements and site considerations.
   (C)   Establishment of PUD Districts. To identify the nature of planned unit
developments on zoning maps, they shall be classified as one of the following
three zones:
 
PUD Districts   Abbreviations
Mixed use       PDMX
Non-residential PDNR
Residential     PDRS
 
      (1)   PUD Residential (PDRS) Districts are designed for all buildings and
land that are developed for residential use and those activities customarily
accessory to residential use.
      (2)   PUD Non-residential (PDNR) Districts are designed for all buildings
and land that are not developed for residential use, but rather for commercial
and/or industrial and/or recreational and/or some other nonresidential use.
      (3)   PUD Mixed Use (PDMX) Districts are designed for all buildings and
land that are developed as a mix of both residential and nonresidential uses.
   (D)   Planned Unit Development regulations.
      (1)   The Planned Unit Development District may be applied to any
underlying zoning district already established by this chapter, provided that
the proposed Planned Unit Development complies with the requirements of this
section and supplementary regulations in this chapter.
         (a)   The property proposed for the PUD shall be large enough to
accommodate the use and any accessory or ancillary activities, including
parking, loading and unloading, landscaping, offices, storage building and
utilities.
         (b)   All PUDs shall have adequate access and street frontage. There
may be required on-site and/or off-site improvements to infrastructure in order
to ensure safe and proper access to the facility. In making this determination,
the types, sizes and numbers of vehicles that are expected to use the facility,
shall be considered.
         (c)   All PUDs shall be adequately landscaped and buffered from
neighboring land uses. Minimum separation distances between the facility and
adjacent land uses may be required.
         (d)   Financial guarantees of performance may be required, in order to
provide assurance that the PUD will be completed in conformance with the
approved plan.
         (e)   Other development regulations shall be as prescribed by the PUD
or specific plan and deemed necessary for consistency with the intent of this
chapter.
      (2)   Performance standards. All uses established or placed into
operation after the effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
following performance standards. No use in existence on the effective date of
this chapter shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with these
standards.
         (a)   Vibration. No use shall cause earth vibrations or concussions
detectable beyond the lot lines without the aid of instruments.
         (b)   Smoke, particulate matter, noxious matter. No use shall emit
smoke of a density exceeding that of a normal establishment. No use shall be
permitted to burn any materials or chemicals other than standard heating fuels
such as fuel oil, propane or natural gas, with the exception of food
preparation facilities. Operations which require the burning of other materials
must be approved by the Area Plan Commission.
         (c)   Odor. No use shall emit across the lot lines odor in such
quantity as to be readily detectable at any point along the lot lines and as to
be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause
injury to property.
         (d)   Sound. No use shall produce sound in such a manner as to
endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause injury to property.
Sound shall be muffled so as not to become detrimental due to intermittence,
beat frequency, shrillness or vibration.
         (e)   Heat and glare. No use shall produce heat or glare creating a
hazard perceptible from any point beyond lot lines.
         (f)   Waste matter. No use shall accumulate within the lot or
discharge beyond the lot lines any waste matter, whether liquid or solid, in
violation of the applicable standards and regulations of the Department of
Environment Management or in such a manner as to endanger the public health,
safety or welfare or cause injury to property.
         (g)   Junk automobiles (vehicles). Vehicles not in operating condition
and parked at a commercial location more than 30 days may be removed from the
property with the notification by certified mail to vehicle owner. These
vehicles will be towed at owner’s expense to a holding area for 30 days and
then disposed of to a legal salvage yard. Notification and removal will be
under court and police supervision. A show cause hearing will not be held for
these violations.
         (h)   Unnecessary clutter. No one shall be permitted to heap, litter
or strew in a confused and disorderly manner, any materials or objects on
property owned leased or rented for commercial purposes.
         (i)   Burning of materials. No use shall permit burning of any
materials or chemicals except as fuels in approved heating or manufacturing
process facilities.
   (E)   Planned Unit Development process. PD zones are not identified on the
zoning maps in advance. PD zones are the result of a public hearing to rezone a
specific parcel(s) to a new PD zone based on the negotiated development plan
between the petitioner(s), Area Plan Commission and representatives of the
checkpoint agencies.
      (1)   Application for designation of a Planned Unit Development District
shall be made to the County Area Plan Commission. The application shall include
the following materials:
         (a)   Legal description of the property included in the request;
         (b)   Drawing indicating the existing features of the site and
property within one-half mile of the site, including significant vegetation,
water features, topography, soil characteristics, flood hazard areas, drainage,
structures, land uses, zoning and any other pertinent features; and
         (c)   Site plan showing the details of the proposed development,
including proposed structures, fill areas and maximum heights of fill, borrow
areas, access drives, parking areas, screening and/or buffering, and any other
similar information the city or county deems pertinent to the request.
      (2)   The Area Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing on the request
and make a favorable recommendation, unfavorable recommendation, or no
recommendation. Such hearing shall be conducted in accordance with I.C. 36-7-
4 and with the Commission’s rules of procedure.
      (3)   In making a favorable recommendation, the Area Plan Commission may
recommend such conditions of approval as it deems appropriate to ensure
consistency with the spirit and intent of this chapter.
      (4)   The legislative body shall approve or deny the request in the same
manner as an amendment to the zoning map. The legislative body shall hold a
public hearing at the meeting at which the ordinance will be decided. In
approving the request, the legislative body may impose such conditions as it
deems appropriate to ensure consistency with the intent of this chapter. These
conditions may be, but are not required to be, those recommended by the Area
Plan Commission.
      (5)   If a Planned Unit Development District is approved, the property
may be developed for said uses only in accordance with the approved plan for
the district. Any material changes to said plan must be approved, which may
refer proposed changes to the Area Plan Commission for review and
recommendation.
      (6)   No construction may be commenced until all required permits are
obtained. Construction includes any grading, filling, excavation, structural
alterations or other similar activity. Any such activity which is required in
order to obtain needed permits, such soil borings, is excluded from this
provision.
      (7)   A planned unit development has been abandoned if two years have
passed since the date on which rezoning to PDRS, PDNR or PDMX was granted, and
no final been approved and recorded for the project.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.056  AIRPORT ZONING.
   (A)   Preamble. The purpose of this section is to provide for regulations
restricting the height of structures and objects of natural growth in the
vicinity of North Vernon Municipal Airport by creating appropriate zones and
establishing the boundaries of such zones; to control the use of land and
property within the zones for the prevention of hazards to air navigation; to
protect the health, safety and general welfare of property owners around the
airport by promoting land development and uses which are compatible with
airport development; and to define certain terms used herein. Any state or
federal laws not covered by this section will be still in force.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
North Vernon Municipal Airport Zoning Ordinance of the county.
      (2)   Authority. This section is adopted pursuant to the authority
conferred by state law as subsequently amended.
      (3)   Policy.
         (a)   It is hereby found that an airport hazard endangers the lives
and property of users of the North Vernon Municipal Airport, and property or
occupants of land in its vicinity. Accordingly, it is declared:
            1.   That the creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a
public nuisance and an injury to the region served by The North Vernon
Municipal Airport;
            2.   That it is necessary in the interest of the public health,
safety and general welfare that the creation or establishment of airport
hazards be prevented; and
            3.   That the prevention of these hazards should be accomplished,
to the extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without
compensation.
         (b)   It is further declared that both the prevention of the creation
or establishment of airport hazards and the elimination, removal, alteration,
mitigation or marking and lighting of existing airport hazards are public
purposes for which the City of North Vernon may raise and expend public funds
and acquire land or interests in land.
      (4)   Airport Zoning (AZ) District established. The Airport Zoning (AZ)
District shall include all zones as indicated on the North Vernon Municipal
Airport Zoning Map, dated August 4, 1981 and Exhibit “A,” Airport Layout Plan,
dated May 12, 1975 which are a part hereof and incorporated herein by
reference. All land so indicated is hereby zoned and classified as the Airport
Zoning District.
      (5)   Conflicting regulations. Where there exists a conflict between any
of the regulations or limitations prescribed in this chapter and any other
regulations applicable to the same area, whether the conflicts are with respect
to the height of structures or trees, the use of land or any other matter, the
more stringent limitation or requirement shall govern and prevail.
      (6)   Severability. If any of the provisions of this chapter or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter
which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to
this end the provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable.
   (C)   Airport zones and zone height limitations.
      (1)   Airport zones. In order to carry out the provisions of this section
there are hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the
land lying within the approach zones, conical zone, horizontal zone, noise
sensitive zones and transitional zones as they apply to the airport. Such zones
are shown on the North Vernon Municipal Airport Zoning Map, dated August 4,
1981, which is made a part of this section by reference. The various zones are
hereby defined as follows.
         (a)   Utility Runway 15-33, Visual Approach Zones. The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 250
feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,250 feet
at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline
is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
         (b)   Runway 5-23, Larger Than Utility With A Visibility Minimum
Greater Than % Mile, Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone. The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500
feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet
at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
         (c)   Conical Zone. The Conical Zone is hereby established as the area
that commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward
there from a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. The conical zone does not
include the Precision Instrument Approach Zone and the transitional zones.
         (d)   Horizontal Zone. The Horizontal Zone is hereby established by
swinging arcs of 10,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of each runway, and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines
tangent to those arcs. The Horizontal Zone does not include the Approach and
Transitional Zones.
         (e)   Noise Sensitive Zone. These zones are established as the areas
lying 1,500 feet on either side of the centerline and extended centerline of
runways for a distance of one nautical mile from the point which the extended
runway centerline crosses the airport boundary of the airport. There are no
slope or height limitations.
         (f)   Transitional Zones. These zones are hereby established as the
area beneath the transitional surfaces. These surfaces extend outward and
upward at 90-degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway extended
centerline. Transitional Zones, for those portions of the precision approach
zones which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface,
extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the
approach zones and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
      (2)   Zone height limitations.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no structure or
tree erected, altered, allowed to grow or be maintained in any zone created by
this section to a height in excess of the applicable height limits herein
established for such zone.
         (b)   The applicable zone height limitations are hereby described as
follows.
            1.   Utility Runway 15-33, Visual Approach Zone. Slope upward 20
feet horizontally for each foot vertically, beginning at the end of and at the
same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
            2.   Runway 5-23, Larger Than Utility With A Visibility Minimum
Greater Than % Mile, Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone. Slopes upward 34
feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the
same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
            3.   Conical Zone. Slopes upward and outward 20 feet horizontally
for each foot vertically beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and
at 150 feet above the airport elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet
above the airport elevation.
            4.   Horizontal Zone. One hundred and fifty feet above the airport
elevation and a height of 908 feet mean sea level.
            5.   Transitional Zones. Slopes upward and outward seven feet
horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and the approach zones, and extending to a
height of 150 feet above the airport elevation and 908 feet mean sea level. In
addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping upward
and outward seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the
sides of and at the same elevation as the approach zones, and extending to
where they intersect the conical surface. Where the precision instrument runway
approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, height limits sloping upward
and outward seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically shall be
maintained beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as precision
instrument runway approach surface, and extending to a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet measured at 90 degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
            6.   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting the planting, growth, construction or maintenance of
any tree or structure to a maximum height of 150 feet above the ground for
which the structure is erected on or 908 feet above mean sea level, which ever
is less; provided however, that such maximum height does not conflict with any
of the approach and transitional zones of this section.
   (D)   Uses prohibited and permitted in AZ District.
      (1)   Uses prohibited.
         (a)   Communication and visibility. No use may be made of land within
the established Airport Zoning (AZ) District in such a manner as to create
electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication
between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to distinguish
between lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the
airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport of otherwise in any
way create a hazard or endanger the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of
aircraft.
         (b)   Places of public assembly. No structures, buildings or premises
used for public assembly, including schools, libraries, churches, hospitals,
child care institutions, stadiums, theaters, public assembly halls and
auditoriums, carnivals and amusement parks, sports arenas, museums or similar
facilities shall be erected, relocated or converted for use within the Approach
Zones, Noise Sensitive Zones and Transitional Zones.
         (c)   Residential uses. No single-family, two-family or multi-family
residential uses, including mobile home parks, shall be allowed within the
approach, transitional and noise sensitive zones established by this section,
except when such use is accessory to agricultural or other principal use of
land. Also, excepting those single-family residential uses that agreed to the
covenant, as worded in
Appendix A  following this chapter and recorded with the deed.
      (2)   Uses permitted. The following uses are permitted, provided however,
that they meet other requirements of this section:
         (a)   Agricultural uses, utility and service system buildings and
lands, cemetery or crematory, low density park, picnic and recreational
facilities, improvement and/or expansion of the airport, automobile and farm
equipment sales, repair and services, parking lots; and
         (b)   Accessory buildings and uses.
      (3)   Special exceptions. The following uses are permitted as special
exceptions when authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Such special
exceptions shall be subject to the requirements the Board of Zoning Appeals
feels necessary to further the purpose of the Airport Zoning District as stated
in the preamble in division (A) above.
         (a)   Quarrying and mining of natural resources, sanitary landfill and
other types of landfill, public or private golf courses and driving ranges,
industrial parks and light industrial uses, commercial greenhouses, plant
nurseries, hotel, motel, sale barns for livestock resale, business and retail
uses, restaurants and other service facilities, police or fire stations;
         (b)   Advertising structures and signs, elevated water storage tanks,
elevated transmission and communication lines; and
         (c)   Present church and school properties under existing ownerships
as of  and prior to the date of the adoption of the Airport Zoning District are
exempted when used in conjunction with the intended school and church activity.
      (4)   Non-conforming uses.
         (a)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
section shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other
changes or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the
regulations as of the effective date of this section, or otherwise interfere
with the continuance of a non-conforming use. Nothing contained herein shall
require any change in the construction, alteration or intended use of any
structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the
effective date of this section, and is diligently prosecuted.
         (b)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of
this section, the owner of any existing non-conforming structure or tree is
hereby required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon
of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the North Vernon
Board of Aviation Commissioners to indicate to the operators or aircraft in the
vicinity of the airport, the presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and
lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the City
of North Vernon.
   (E)   Permits.
      (1)   Future uses. No material change shall be made in the use of land
and no structure shall be erected, altered or otherwise established in any zone
hereby created unless a permit therefore shall have been applied for and
granted.
         (a)   A permit for a structure of less than 150 feet of vertical
height above the ground and 908 feet above mean sea level shall not be required
in the horizontal and conical zones.
         (b)   Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for
which the permit is desired with sufficient particulars to determine whether
the resulting use or structure would conform to the regulations herein
described. If such determination is in the affirmative the permit shall be
granted.
         (c)   An application is required for a tree anticipated to encroach
upon the approach or transitional zones.
         (d)   Each application will require proof of the Department of
Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Aeronautical Study Review
and Determination of No Hazard. Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration,
FAA Form 7460-1, or as amended may be requested by writing to the:
   Department of Transportation
   Federal Aviation Administration
   Airspace and Procedures Branch
   Great Lakes Region
   2300 East Devon Avenue
   Des Plaines, Illinois 60018
         (e)   In the event the Board of Aviation Commissioners of the city
should determine at some point in the future to extend the runway at the City
of North Vernon’s Airport from its present length of 4,500 feet to its planned
length of 5,000, the Board of Aviation Commissioners shall give notice to
contiguous property owners of its intention to construct said extension at
least six months prior to the commencement of construction or whatever period
may be required by federal regulation. In the event such extension is carried
out, any tree cutting or topping made necessary by the extension of said runway
shall be done at the cost of the Board of Aviation Commissioners. In the event
it shall become necessary to remove timber due to said extension, the Board of
Aviation Commissioners shall obtain at least two appraisals of the fair market
value of the timber to be removed and shall pay the owner thereof fair
compensation for the removal of said timber. In the event the Board of Aviation
Commissioners removes said timber, the Board of Aviation Commissioners shall be
entitled to dispose of it in the manner in which it sees fit. This division (E)
(1)(e) shall be deemed to apply only to those trees or other natural growth
which are in existence on the original date of the enactment of this amendment
by the Common Council of the City of North Vernon, which date was March 30,
1987.
      (2)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a non-conforming use,
structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of this section or any amendments thereto or than it is when
the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for
such a permit shall be granted.
      (3)   Non-conforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Building
Commissioner determines that a non-conforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no
permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the
applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
      (4)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of
any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property not
in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this section, may apply to the
Board of Zoning Appeals for a variance from such regulations. Such variances
shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or
enforcement of the regulations would result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship and relief granted would be contrary to the public
interest but will do substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit
of this section. The State Department of Transportation, Division of
Aeronautics will be notified of all intended variance approvals and allowed 30
days for review and comment.
      (5)   Hazard marketing and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this section
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the North Vernon Board of
Aviation Commissioners, at the Board’s expense, to install, operate and
maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to
pilots the presence of an airport hazard.
   (F)   Enforcement and penalties. It shall be the duty of the County Area
Plan Commission to administer and enforce the regulations prescribed herein.
Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the County Area Plan
Commission upon a form furnished by them. Applications required by this chapter
to be submitted to the County Area Plan Commission shall be promptly considered
and granted or denied by them. Application for action by the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall be forthwith transmitted by the County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
Cross-reference:
   Airport zoning easement and covenant, see
Appendix A following this chapter
§ 154.057  FLOODPLAIN ZONING.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   The district is created to guide development in those areas
adjoining any waterway which has or which may be expected hereafter to be
covered by flood water, as determined by the State Department of Natural
Resources (IDNR), various other state or federal agencies with applicable
jurisdiction or other reliable sources, or as determined by local authorities
on the basis of historical or technical data.
      (2)   This district is created to protect the public health and safety
and to reduce the financial burdens which may be imposed on the community as a
result of improper use of land having excessively high water tables or which
are subject to periodic flooding.
   (B)   Establishment of floodplain districts.
      (1)   The following floodplain zoning district is established in the
county, and is abbreviated as indicated.
      (2)   Land within the county is classified, divided and zoned into said
districts as designated on the zoning maps, which maps are incorporated herein
by reference and made a part of this chapter.
      (3)   Refer to Figure 12-1 for graphical representation.
 
Floodplain District Abbreviations
Floodplain          FP
 
   (C)   Floodplain regulations.
      (1)   No residential development shall be permitted in FP Districts.
      (2)   Permitted uses in FP Districts shall include open space, mineral
extraction, agriculture and recreation.
      (3)   Alterations to land or structures, construction and other uses in
FP Districts shall be conducted in accordance with the rules and policies of
the State Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) and other state and federal
agencies with statutory jurisdiction over floodways, aquifers and waterways.
      (4)   (a)   The Area Plan Commission may approve development in FP
Districts where the area has been suitably filled and graded such that
permanent structures constructed shall have ground floor elevation minimum
three feet above flood height, which elevation shall be determined by IDNR.
         (b)   Copy of said determinations shall be presented along with the
plat of proposed development to the Area Plan Commission for approval.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b536aff2e9996e3d3d9612f90e3fd44d231420ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-991.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
NON-CONFORMING USE SPECIFICATION
§ 154.070  DEFINITION.
   Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the time of passage of
this chapter which does not conform after the passage of this chapter with the
use regulations of the district in which it is situated shall be deemed to be a
legal non-conforming use.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.071  PROVISIONS.
   (A)    Non-conforming uses are considered incompatible or undesirable uses
in the districts in which said use is located. Within the districts established
by this chapter, there may exist non-conforming lots, structures and uses.
These non-conforming lots, structures and uses were lawful prior to the
adoption of this chapter, but are now prohibited, regulated or restricted.
Starting (DATE) any property currently being used in a non-conforming use shall
continue until they are removed.
   (B)   Existing non-conforming uses must register with the Area Plan
Commission; additionally they  can be transferred to another owner on the same
location provided the future owner again registers such non-conforming use with
the Area Plan Commission and is approved by the Area Plan Board.
   (C)   Non-conforming structures shall not be modified or enlarged to
intensify or further accommodate the non-conforming use, but any structure or
portion thereof may be altered to diminish or eliminate its lack of conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. Normal maintenance and repair of a
structure containing a non-conforming use shall be permitted, provided there is
no alteration of the structure to intensify or further accommodate the non-
conforming use.
   (D)   Non-conforming uses shall not be moved in whole or in part to occupy
any structure or any portion of the registered parcel not occupied by the non-
conforming use at the effective date of this chapter or amendment.
   (E)   Illegal uses existing at the time this chapter is enacted shall not be
validated by virtue of its enactment.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006; Ord. 2021-03A, passed 3-18-2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.072  REVOCATION.
   (A)   If a lawfully registered non-conforming use is discontinued or
abandoned for a period of six consecutive months or greater, the non-conforming
use shall be revoked. The structure and/or premises shall thereafter be used in
conformance with the regulations and standards for the district in which it is
located, as enacted in this chapter and its amendments.
   (B)   Uses banned under any federal, state or local law, ordinance or
regulation, or found to pose a threat to the public health, shall not be
protected by non-conforming use provisions, nor validated by the enactment of
this chapter or its amendments.
   (C)   If property owners wish to willfully rezone their property to the
conforming use, they may do so by contacting the Area Plan Office at no expense
to the property owner if done so by (DATE).
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006; Ord. 2021-03A, passed 3-18-2021)Penalty, see §
154.999
ELECTRICAL LICENSING
§ 154.085  INSPECTION AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Inspection.
      (1)   Inspection by the Department of Planning and Zoning, Area Plan
Commission/Department of Code Enforcement is required.
      (2)   The Department of Planning and Zoning, through the office of the
Building Commissioner/ Inspector, shall be responsible for inspection of
electrical wiring in the county, City of North Vernon and Town of Vernon.
   (B)   Licensing. To operate or engage in business as an electrician, or an
independent electrical contractor within the county, city and town, the
individual desiring to operate or engage in such business shall be duly
licensed according to the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Such license shall be issued only in the name of the individual
making application for such license.
      (2)   Any change in address shall be reported to the Department of
Planning and Zoning, Area Plan Commission/Department of Code Enforcement within
five days after such change occurs.
      (3)   The examination required by §
154.086(B) shall be binding upon all individuals.
      (4)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting
industrial manufacturing concerns from installing and maintaining customary
electrical installation incidental to the operations of such concern without
complying with the licensing provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Service panel or switch gear installations, alterations and repairs
shall comply with the licensing and inspection provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   This licensing program will begin on approval of all governing
bodies in the county, city  and town.
   (C)   License fees. The fee for a license to operate as an electrician, or
an independent electrical contractor within the county, city or town shall be a
sum as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time for the first license
issued to such applicant and a sum as set by the Board and/or Council from time
to time for a three-year (re-licensing) renewal of such license and for each
additional individual engaged in electrical wiring by the licensee, an
additional fee as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time for the
first license issued to such applicant and a sum as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time for each annual renewal of such license shall be
charged. The county, city and town are hereby authorized to set fees upon the
recommendation of the Building Commissioner/Inspector. An individual having
passed a Block examination will be qualified to do electrical wiring in the
county, city and town.
   (D)   Issuance of license and disposition of fees. The license provided for
in this chapter shall be issued by the Area Plan Commission Building
Commissioner/Inspector. All fees for licenses shall be deposited in the County
General Fund, or a fund specifically designated by the County Auditor. All
expenditures from this fund shall be approved by the County Council and/or
County Commissioners.
   (E)   Expiration and renewal. All licenses issued under this chapter shall
expire on December 31 in the year for which such license was issued. No license
shall be issued for a longer period than three calendar years, but a license
may be renewed without reexamination as provided for in this chapter. However,
no license holder will be entitled to renew a license without examination
unless an application shall be filed in due form and the proper fee for such
renewal paid not later than 30 days after the expiration of the latest license
in the Office of the Department of Planning and Zoning, Area Plan Commission,
but if such application is so filed and such fee is so paid within 30 days from
such expiration date of the latest license, then such renewal license shall be
granted without examination. No license shall be transferable to any
individual, firm, partnership or corporation.
   (F)   Suspension of license. The Building Commissioner/Inspector is
authorized to suspend the license of any electrician or electrical contractor
issued under this chapter for a period of not more than 30 days for a violation
of this chapter; and any such individual whose license has been suspended may
appeal such suspension to the Board of Electric Examiners by filing therewith a
written request for a hearing within ten days of the Building Commissioners/
Inspectors action. Such Board shall have the power to reverse or affirm the
decision appealed from, or to permanently revoke such license.
   (G)   “SPEC” homes for sale, including rentals. The penalties specified in §
154.999(B) pertain to person/or persons building “spec” homes and rentals. The
penalties specified in §
154.999(B) do not apply to rewiring motors. They apply only to structural
wiring and only to what is covered in current code.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.086  RULES OF EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Board of Electrical Examiners.
      (1)   A Board of Electrical Examiners is created and shall consist of:
         (a)   A Master Electrician (as designated by Commissioners);
         (b)   A representative from Cinergy PSI (as designated by PSI);
         (c)   A representative from all R.E.M.C.’s (as designated by R.E.M.C);
         (d)   Executive Director of the Area Plan Commission; and
         (e)   The Building Commissioner/Building Inspector.
      (2)   The Executive Director of the Area Plan Commission and the Building
Commissioner/ Building Inspector are non-voting members of the Board.
   (B)   Examination. Any individual desiring to engage in electrical wiring,
(as referenced in §
154.085(B) and (G), for hire/pay within the county, city or town is required to
pass an examination as required by this chapter concerning their ability,
experience, training and fitness to engage in such line of work. Such
examinations are to begin with the passage of this chapter.
   (C)   Application for examination. Any applicant desiring to take an
examination for an electrician’s license, where such examination is required by
this subchapter, shall be entitled to take such examination within 30 days
after the date of filing and perfecting his or her application in the office of
the Area Plan Commission.
   (D)   Failure to pass examination. In the event of an applicant failing to
pass an examination for an electrician’s license, he or she may, after 30
calendar days from the filing date of his or her prior application, apply for
another examination.
   (E)   Certificate of inspection.
      (1)   When electrical wiring and the like conforms to the requirements of
this chapter, then the Building Commissioner/Inspector or his or her designated
representative shall give his or her certificate of inspection to the person
performing such work. The certificate shall state the description and location
of such work. The certificate shall state the description and location of the
building inspected and the date the work is approved.
      (2)   If such work shall not conform to the provisions of this chapter,
then the Building Commissioner/Inspector or his or her designated
representative shall notify the person performing such work wherein it fails to
conform. If more than two re-inspections for the same violation are required,
then there shall be an additional inspection fee as set by the Board and/or
Council from time to time for each such additional inspection. Three 
inspections require no additional fee.
   (F)   Furnishing electric current. No individual shall furnish any electric
current to any building hereafter wired for electricity within the county, city
and town until it has been furnished with a certificate of inspection signed by
the Building Commissioner/Inspector or his or her designated representative
showing that such work conforms to the rules and requirements established in
this chapter. If power is provided without approval of Building Commissioner/
Inspector, the home owner or individual doing wiring and company supplying
electricity are in violation and subject to fines, as deemed by the Board of
Electric Examiners.
   (G)   Liability for damages. This chapter shall not relieve any individual
from liability for damages or injuries to persons or property because of the
installation of any electric wiring, devices, appliances or equipment; nor
shall the county, city or town assume any such liability by reason of the
inspection authorized in this chapter or the certificate of inspection issued
as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
SIGNS
§ 154.100  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Whereas the state, adhering to the Federal Highway Beautification Act
of 1965, had made provisions to control outdoor advertising by enacting Pub. L.
No. 112-1993, § 3, requiring the State Department of Transportation to
establish a permit system for the effective control of outdoor advertising, all
provisions contained herein relating to the local control of such advertising,
including billboards, erected or affixed signs, shall be subordinate to and
regulated by said Public Law.
   (B)   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location where by reason
of its position, wording, size, shape, color or illumination it may obstruct,
obscure, impair or interfere with the view of or be confused with any
authorized traffic-control device signal or sign.
   (C)   No part of any sign attached to the exterior wall of a building shall
be erected to a height in excess of six feet above the roof line or parapet
line of such building.
   (D)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within 50 feet of any
residential district unless it is so designed that it does not reflect or shine
light onto said district.
   (E)   No part of any free-standing sign shall be erected to a height greater
than that specified for other structures in the district in which it is
located; rooftop signs shall not extend more than 20 feet above the roof line,
nor shall such sign be located closer to an exterior wall than a distance equal
to the height such sign extends above the roof.
   (F)   The minimum setback of free-standing signs from street rights-of-way
shall not be less than:
 
Area of Sign             Minimum Setback
0 to 14.9 square feet    10 feet setback
15 to 49.9 square feet   20 feet setback
50 to 99.9 square feet   30 feet setback
100 to 149.9 square feet 60 feet setback
150 or more square feet  100 feet setback
 
   (G)   The area of a sign shall be determined by the smallest circle,
triangle or rectangle that can be used to enclose the sign, exclusive of
supporting members that bear no message.
   (H)   No pennants, banners, flags, spinners or similar devices shall be
permitted and, except as specifically provided for herein, no portable signs
shall be permitted.
   (I)   Each permitted or required parking area that has a capacity of more
than five cars shall be permitted one sign, not more than two square feet in
area, designating each entrance or exit; and one sign, not more than 12 square
feet in area, identifying or designating the conditions of use of such parking
area for each 25 spaces.
   (J)   One “For Sale” or “For Rent” sign not more than 12 square feet in area
shall be allowed for each dwelling unit, garage or other quarters where
appropriate.
   (K)   One sign, not more than 20 square feet in area, pertaining to the sale
of agricultural products raised on the premises shall be allowed.
   (L)   Signs shall not be allowed in the public right-of-way unless the sign
is established by, or by order of, any governmental agency.
   (M)   One sign, not more than 12 square feet in area, for construction and
development, giving the name of the contractors, engineers or architects, shall
be permitted but only during the time that construction or development is
actually underway.
   (N)   For an event of public interest such as a county fair or church event,
one sign not over 24 square feet in area and located upon the site of the event
shall be permitted. Such sign shall not be erected more than 30 days before the
event in question and shall be removed immediately after such event. Also
directional signs, not more than three square feet in area, showing only a
directional arrow and the name of the event of public interest shall be
allowed. Such sign shall not be erected more than 14 days before the event in
question and shall be removed immediately after such event.
   (O)   For each real estate development that has been approved in accordance
with the subdivision regulations, one sign, not more than 300 square feet in
area, advertising the sale of property in such subdivision shall be permitted,
but only when located on some portion of the subdivision being advertised for
sale. Such sign may be illuminated, but no flashing, intermittent or animated
illumination is permitted. Such sign shall be maintained only during such time
as some portion of the land advertised for sale remains unsold. Permits for
such signs shall be issued for one-year periods and may be renewed for
additional one-year periods to allow time for reasonable display.
   (P)   No sign which does not conform to the provision of this section shall
be replaced, enlarged or structurally reinforced so as to extend its useful
life.
   (Q)   Any billboard addition within the city limits, town limits or county
limits must be approved by the appropriate ruling body before being erected.
(See §
154.105 for billboard regulations.)
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.101  RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   A nameplate which shall not exceed one square foot in area is
permitted for each dwelling unit of a single-family, or row house structure;
such nameplate shall indicate nothing other than name and/or address of the
occupant, and/or customary home occupation. No other sign shall be allowed.
   (B)   Multiple-family residences and residential projects of all types may
display identification signs indicating nothing other than name and/or address
of the premises and/or name of the management. Such sign shall not exceed 12
square feet in area.
   (C)   For uses other than those listed in divisions (A) and (B) above,
bulletin boards or identification signs indicating nothing other than name and/
or address of the premises, and schedule of services or other information
relevant to the operation of the premises; such signs shall not exceed 12
square feet in area.
   (D)   For each use of divisions (B) and (C) above eligible to display a
sign, only one sign per street frontage shall be permitted; except that uses
occupying extended frontages shall be permitted one such sign per 500 feet of
frontage or major fraction thereof.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.102  COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Residential uses shall be subject to the provisions of §
154.101.
   (B)   For each public recreation, community facility or clinic use shall be
permitted one bulletin board or identification sign, not to exceed 12 square
feet, except that uses occupying extended frontages shall be permitted one such
sign per 500 feet of frontage or major fraction thereof.
   (C)   For each primary use other than those listed in divisions (A) and (B)
above, signs shall be permitted according to the number and net area of signs
set forth below; however, one additional sign shall be permitted for each 50
lineal feet of store front in excess of 50 feet:
 
District    Number of Signs Net Area (Each)
Commercial  2               60 square feet
Residential 1               60 square feet
 
   (D)   No sign shall project over a lot line and no sign shall project into a
required yard by more than two feet, except in those blocks where 25% of the
frontage is already occupied by business uses and where overhanging signs are
already established. Signs may project to within two feet of an established
curb line but in no event shall a sign extend more than six feet beyond the
face of the building.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.103  INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   Each use shall be permitted identification signs on the lot only as
incidental uses, not to exceed two signs and the total area of all signs shall
not exceed 300 square feet.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.104  AGRICULTURAL AND FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS.
   No more than one sign structure shall be allowed per 2,640 feet of frontages
on the same side of the road; no such sign structures shall contain more than
two facings, and no facing shall display more than two signs.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.105  OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS (BILLBOARDS).
   Billboard signs are permitted only along and oriented towards State Road 7,
State Road 3 and U.S. 50, and shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   Billboards shall be allowed in commercial and industrial districts
only, and must comply with the existing zoning requirements.
   (B)   Size, setback, height and area restrictions:
 
Minimum Setback                              Maximum Height Maximum Area
50 feet from all lot lines and rights-of-way 40 feet        672 square feet
 
   (C)   Billboards shall be separated by 2,000 feet in all directions, and
pertaining to limited access highways, no outdoor advertising sign may be
located adjacent to or within 500 feet of an interchange, at-grade
intersection, or rest area; said 500 feet shall be measured from the right-of-
way line.
   (D)   No billboard shall be permitted if it is located within 2,000 feet of
any residential zoning district or residential use.
   (E)   No billboard sign structure shall contain more than two facings and no
facing shall display more than two signs.
   (F)   The maximum area for any one sign shall be 672 square feet and the
maximum width 25 feet and maximum length of 60 feet, exclusive of any border,
trim, ornamental base, apron, supports, embellishments and other structural
members, if the exclusions do not exceed 20% of the sign area. The area shall
be measured by the smallest square, rectangle, triangle, circle or combination
thereof which will encompass the area affected.
   (G)   The application for a billboard shall follow the same steps as in the
rezoning process (Refer to §
154.025):
      (1)   Notify adjacent property owners;
      (2)   Prepare an exhibit showing proposal;
      (3)   Take to required Essential Services and Area Plan Commission
meetings; and
      (4)   Approval by individual legislative body.
   (H)   Permits must be obtained from INDOT or the State Highway Department
prior to issuance of a local permit. (See the permit fee schedule on file with
the Area Plan Commission for local permit fees.)
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES
§ 154.120  SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The off-street parking and loading provisions of this chapter shall apply as
follows.
   (A)   For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land
established after the effective date of this chapter, accessory parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required by this chapter. However,
where a building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this
chapter and provided that construction is begun within six months of such
effective date and diligently prosecuted to completion, parking and loading
facilities in the amounts required for the issuance of said building permit may
be provided in lieu of any different amounts required by this chapter.
   (B)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premise shall
be increased through the addition of dwelling units of measurement specified
herein for required parking or loading facilities, parking and loading
facilities as required herein shall be provided for such increase in intensity
of use. However, no building or structure lawfully erected or use lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be required to
provide such additional parking or loading facilities unless the aggregate
increase in units of measurements exceeds an amount equal to 15% of the number
of units of measurement existing upon the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Wherever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter
be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use. However, if the said building or structure was
erected prior to the effective date of this chapter, additional parking or
loading facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements
for the new use would exceed those for the existing use had the latter been
subject to the parking and loading provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   In order to prevent undue traffic congestion in areas of extensive
business concentration and so promote an orderly and efficient circulation of
pedestrians and vehicles, it is necessary and reasonable that off-street
parking facilities be provided in such areas only in conformity with an
overall, coordinated parking plan. To secure these objectives no accessory off-
street parking facilities shall be required for any use in the central business
district code area defined as follows:
The land bounded by Jennings, Main and Chestnut Streets and the Penn-Central
right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.121  EXISTING PARKING FACILITIES.
   Accessory off-street parking facilities in existence on the effective date
of this chapter and located on the same lots as the building or use served
shall not hereafter be reduced or further reduced below the requirements for a
similar new building or use under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.122  PERMISSIVE PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary
establishment of off-street parking or loading facilities to serve any existing
use of land or buildings, provided that all regulations herein governing the
location, design and operation of such facilities are adhered to.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.123  DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION.
   For any conforming or legal non-conforming building or use which is in
existence on the effective date of this chapter, which subsequently thereto is
damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or other cause, and which is
reconstructed, re-established or repaired off-street parking or loading
facilities need not be provided, except that parking or loading facilities
equivalent to any maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be
restored or continued in operation.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.124  CONTROL OF OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES.
   In cases where parking facilities are permitted on land other than the lot
on which the building or use served is located, such facilities shall be in the
same control as the lot occupied by the building or use to which the parking
facilities are accessory. Such control may be either by deed or long-term
lease, the term of such lease to be determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
The parking facilities must also be located on land which is zoned the same as
the building or use for which it serves. The owner of the land on which the
parking facilities are located shall be bound by covenants filed on record in
the Office of the Recorder of Deeds or the Registrant of Titles of the county,
requiring such owner, his or her heirs and assigns, to maintain the required
number of parking facilities for the duration of the use served or of the said
lease, whichever shall terminate sooner.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.125  OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided in accordance with
additional regulations set forth herein.
   (A)   Use. Off-street parking facilities required for uses listed herein,
shall be solely for the parking of passenger automobiles of patrons, occupants
or employees.
   (B)   Exemption. When the application of the off-street parking regulations
specified herein results in a requirement of not more than three spaces on a
single lot in any business or commercial district, such parking spaces need not
be provided. However, where two or more uses are located on a single lot, the
foregoing exemption shall apply only if the total requirement for all uses is
three spaces or less.
   (C)   Computation. When determination of the number of off-street parking
spaces required by this chapter results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-third or less may be disregarded while a fraction in excess
of one-third shall be counted as one parking space.
   (D)   Collective provision. Off-street parking facilities for separate uses
may be provided collectively if the total number of spaces so provided is not
less than the sum of the separate requirements for each such use and provided
that all regulations governing location of accessory parking spaces, in
relation to the use served, are adhered to. Further, no parking spaces or
portion thereof shall serve as a required space for more than one use unless
otherwise authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   Area.
      (1)   All parking spaces and maneuvering aisles shall have the minimum
dimensions set forth in the following table:
   TABLE 15-1: PARKING DIMENSIONS
 
Minimum Parking Space and Aisle Dimensions for Parking Areas (In Feet)
Angle of    Width of  Parking Length of  Parking Maneuvering Maneuvering
Parking (in Space              Space               Aisle (one- Aisle (two-way)
degrees)                                           way)
76 - 90     9                  18                  22          22
61 - 75     9                  18                  18          22
46 - 60     9                  18                  17          22
0 - 45      8                  22                  12          22
 
      (2)   Measurement of parking space width and length, aisle width and
parking angle shall be made as per the following diagram:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b536aff2e9996e3d3d9612f90e3fd44d231420ec/
IMAGES/0-0-0-993.jpg]
 
   (F)   Access.
      (1)   Each required off-street parking space shall open directly upon an
aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide a safe and efficient
means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off-street parking
facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a
street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic movement.
No driveway across public property at the right-of-way line shall exceed a
width of 25 feet.
      (2)   A driveway permit shall be obtained:
         (a)   From the county garage if the drive comes off a county road and
there is no existing culvert (346-2967);
         (b)   From the State Department of Transportation (Madison Sub-
District Office) if drive comes off a state highway (812-574-4368); and
         (c)   From the city if the drive comes off a city street, at the City
Street Department (346-1616) or the City Clerk Treasurer (346-5907).
   (G)   Design and maintenance.
      (1)   Open and enclosed parking spaces. Accessory parking spaces may be
open to the sky or enclosed in a building.
      (2)   Surfacing. All open off-street parking areas containing more than
four parking spaces shall be improved with a stabilized base, not less than six
inches thick, surfaced with asphalt or treated with some comparable all-weather
dustless material.
      (3)   Screening and landscaping. All open automobile parking areas,
containing more than four parking spaces, located less than 40 feet away from a
property line shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting
on any property situated in a residential district or any institutional
premises by a wall, fence or densely planted compact hedge, not less than five
feet nor more than eight feet in height.
         (a)   For an outdoor parking area containing 20 or more parking
spaces, at least one tree shall be planted for every ten parking spaces on any
side of the perimeter of such parking area that abuts the side line of a
private or public way, or abuts the lot line of land in residential districts
or land used for residential purposes.
         (b)   In any outdoor parking area, a landscaped open space having an
area of not less than 10% of the outdoor parking area on the lot shall be
provided. A minimum of one-half of the required landscaped open space shall be
located in the interior of the parking area and contain ornamental or shade
trees and/or shrubs and/or other appropriate plant materials to provide shade
and color easily visible when the lot is full of cars.
         (c)   Trees required by the provisions of this division (G)(3) shall
be at least two inches in diameter at a height of five feet at the time of
planting and shall be of a species characterized by rapid growth and by
suitability and hardiness for location in a parking lot. To the extent
practicable, existing trees shall be retained and used to satisfy the
provisions of this division (G)(3).
      (4)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area, maneuvering space, or driveway shall be directed and shielded away from
residential properties in such a way as to not create a nuisance. All parking
areas, maneuvering spaces and driveways shall be designed or shielded so that
direct lighting from automobile headlights are not directed on to residential
property.
      (5)   On any parking area in any district, all paved portions of all
parking spaces and maneuvering aisles shall be set back five feet from any wall
of a building, and five feet from any private or public way, or any lot line of
any land in residential districts or used for residential purposes.
   (H)   Location. All parking spaces required to serve buildings or uses
erected or established after the effective date of this chapter shall be
located on the same lot as the building or use served. Buildings or uses
existing on the effective date of this chapter which are subsequently altered
or enlarged so as to require the provision of parking spaces under this chapter
may be served by parking facilities located on land other than the lot on which
the building or use served is located, provided such facilities are within 500
feet walking distance of a main entrance to the use served.
   (I)   Employee parking. Parking spaces required on an employee basis shall
be based on the maximum number of employees on duty or residing, or both, on
the premises at any one time.
   (J)   Maximum number of spaces. The total number of accessory parking spaces
provided for a single-family, two-family or multiple-family dwelling shall not
exceed that required by this chapter for such use or for an equivalent new use
by more than 50% or four spaces, whichever is greater.
   (K)   Required spaces. Off-street parking spaces accessory to designated
uses shall be provided as follows:
Use Parking Spaces
Use                                    Parking Spaces
Hospitals                              1 per 4 beds, plus 1 per 2 employees,
                                       plus 1 per staff doctor
Hotels                                 1 per guest room
Laundromats                            1 per 2 washing machines, plus 1 per 2
                                       employees
Libraries, museums and art galleries   10 plus 1 per 300 square feet of floor
                                       area over 2,000 square feet
Manufacturing, industrial or wholesale 1 per 2 employees on maximum working
establishment, laboratory, company,    shift, plus adequate space to
bottling plant, warehouse or similar   accommodate company vehicles
establishments
Medical and dental clinics             5 per each doctor
Motel, tourist homes                   1 per guest room plus 2 at office and
                                       tourist courts
                                       1 per 300 square feet of sales floor
Motor vehicle sales                    area in excess of 1,000 square plus 1
                                       per 2,000 square feet of open area
Multi-family dwellings                 1½ per dwelling unit
Nursery, elementary, junior high and   1 per classroom and office, or 1 per 10
high schools                           seats in the auditorium, whichever is
                                       greater
Nursing, convalescent rest homes and   1 per 4 beds, plus 1 per 2 employees,
other health homes and institutions    plus 1 per staff doctor
Offices and office buildings           1 per 400 square feet of floor area
Residential - one- and two-family      2 per dwelling unit
dwellings
                                       1 per 3 persons based upon the maximum
Restaurants (except drive-ins, night   number of persons that can be
clubs, taverns and lounges)            accommodated at the same time in
                                       accordance with design capacity
Retail stores or personal service      1 per 200 square feet of floor area plus
Establishments                         1 per 2 employees
Rooming, boarding or lodging houses    1 per 2 rooms, plus 1 for owner or
                                       manager
Theaters, auditoriums, gymnasiums,
stadium areas, convention halls and    1 per 5 seats, plus 1 per 2 employees
places of assembly with fixed seats
 
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.126  OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Off-street loading berths accessory to designated uses shall be provided as
follows.
   (A)   Location. All required loading berths shall be located on the same lot
as the use served. All loading berths which abut a residential district or
intervening alley separating a residential district from a business, commercial
or manufacturing district shall be completely screened therefrom by building
walls, or a uniformly painted solid fence, wall or solid non-deciduous, screen
planting or any combination thereof, not less than six feet in height. No
loading berth shall be located within 40 feet of the nearest point of
intersection of any two streets. No loading berth shall be located in a
required, front or side yard, and any loading berth located in a required rear
yard shall be open to the sky.
   (B)   Area. Unless otherwise specified, a required off-street loading berth
shall be at least 12 feet in width by at least 60 feet in length, exclusive of
aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical clearance of at least 14
feet.
   (C)   Access. Each required off-street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movement.
   (D)   Surfacing. All open off-street loading berths shall be improved with a
cement concrete pavement, not less than seven inches thick, or a comparable
hard surface pavement.
   (E)   Repair and service. No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities.
   (F)   Utilization. Space allocated for vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities.
   (G)   Minimum facilities. Uses for which off-street loading facilities are
required herein, but which are located in buildings of less floor area than the
minimum prescribed for such required facilities, shall be provided with
adequate receiving facilities, accessible by motor vehicle, off any adjacent
alley, service drive or open shape of the same lot.
   (H)   Off-street berth requirements.
      (1)   Off-street loading facilities accessory to uses requiring the
receipt of shipping of material or merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles
shall be provided in accordance with the following minimum requirements:
 
Use                                  Floor Area (Square Feet) Number of Spaces
Funeral home or mortuary             20,000 to 100,000        1
                                     Each additional 100,000  1
Hotel, offices, hospitals or similar
institutions; private clubs and
lodges; educational and cultural     20,000 to 200,000        1
institutions; places of public
assembly
                                     10,000 to 20,000         1
Retail, service repair               20,000 to 40,000         2
establishments, restaurants          40,000 to 100,000        3
                                     100,000 to 250,000       4
                                     Each additional 100,000  1
Warehouse and storage, wholesale and 5,000 to 20,000          1
industrial establishments            20,000 to 100,000        2
                                     Each additional 100,000  1
 
      (2)   For all other business or commercial uses, loading facilities shall
be provided in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Gross Floor Area of Establishment Required Number and Size of Berths
5 to 10                           1 - (12 ft. x 35 ft.)
10 to 25                          2 - (12 ft. x 35 ft. each)
25 to 40                          2 - (12 ft. x 60 ft. each)
40 to 100                         3 - (12 ft. x 60 ft. each)
For each additional 200,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction
thereof over 100,000 square feet of gross floor area; one additional loading
berth shall be provided; such additional berth to be at least 12 feet in width
by 60 feet in length.
 
      (3)   For all uses that are not business, commercial or manufacturing
establishments, loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with
requirements designated by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 154.140  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually-oriented business and
related activities to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the county and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually-oriented
business within the county. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of
any communicative materials, including sexually-oriented materials. Similarly,
it is neither the intent nor the effect of this chapter to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually-oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment or Article I, § 9, of the State Constitution, or to deny access by
the distributors and exhibitors of sexually-oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene materials.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.141  ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS ZONING DISTRICT.
   The following sexually-oriented business zoning district is established in
the county and is abbreviated as indicated. Land within the county is
classified, divided and zoned into said district as designated on the zoning
maps, which maps are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this
chapter.
 
Sexually-Oriented Business District Abbreviation
Sexually-oriented business          SOB
 
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.142  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, videos or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguishable
or characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment that, as one of its principal business
purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or
more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion picture, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations that depict or describe specific sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and/or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A principal business purpose exists if materials offered for sale
or rental depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas generate 25% or more of the business’s income, or account for
25% or more of inventory, or occupy 25% or more of total floor space. A
commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes that do not
involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and still be
categorized as an adult book store or adult video store. Such other business
purpose will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments from being
categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its
principal business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for
consideration the specified materials that depict or describe specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, café or similar commercial
establishment that regularly, commonly, habitually or consistently features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities;
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, digital video disks,
slides, photographic reproduction or other image producing devices that are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in exotic or erotic dancing or performances that
are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or
customers.
   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
that are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way that advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
the room for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, digital
video disks or similar photographic reproductions are regularly, commonly,
habitually or consistently shown that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that regularly, commonly, habitually or consistently features
persons who appear, in person, in a state of nudity and/or semi-nudity, and/or
live performances that are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   CHARACTERIZED BY. This term means the essential character or quality of an
item. As applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as a
sexually-oriented business by virtue of showing, selling or renting materials
rated NC-17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   COMMERCIAL SEXUAL ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. Any commercial establishment not
otherwise described herein which as one of its principal uses regularly offers
matter, services or entertainment appealing to adult sexual interests if the
establishment or its entertainment, services or goods are advertised by or on
behalf of the establishment in a manner patently designed to appeal to such
adult sexual interests.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually-
oriented business on a full-time, part-time, contract basis or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, and whether or not the said person is paid a
salary, wage or other compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE
does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance
of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to
the premises, nor does EMPLOYEE include a person exclusively on the premises as
a patron or customer.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to any sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually-oriented business;
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually-oriented business; or
      (5)   A sexually-oriented business or premises on which the sexually-
oriented business is located.
   LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
   LIVE THEATRICAL PERFORMANCE.  A play, skit, opera, ballet, concert, comedy
or musical drama.
   MASSAGE PARLOR.  Any place where, for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body which occurs
as a part of or in connection with specified sexual activities, or where any
person providing this treatment, manipulation or service related thereto,
exposes his or her specified anatomical areas. The definition of sexually-
oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in any licensed
hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor, osteopath or certified massage therapist, nor by any nurse or
technician working under the supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor, osteopath or certified massage therapist, nor by trainers for any
amateur, semi-professional or professional athlete or athletic team or school
athletic program.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
for consideration.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.  The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals or vulva,
with less than a fully opaque covering; or a female breast with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the areola; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   OPERATE or CAUSE TO OPERATE. To cause to function, or to put or keep in a
state of doing business.
   OPERATOR.  Any person on the premises of a sexually-oriented business who
operates or manages the business or exercises overall control of the business
premises. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be operated a
sexually-oriented business regardless of whether that person is an owner, part
owner or licensee of the business.
   PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES.  Any premise that requires a license or
permit and that is classified as a sexually-oriented business.
   PERMITTEE is the same as LICENSEE.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually-oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually-oriented business, the grounds, private walkways
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license.
   PRINCIPAL USE. A substantial or significant use, but not necessarily a
majority of the business activity or stock in trade. The fact that a business
may have one or more other PRINCIPAL USES unrelated to sexually-oriented
business shall not relieve the business from the provisions of this chapter
applicable to sexually-oriented business establishments. PRINCIPAL USE shall
exist in the following circumstances:
      (1)   Where a business establishment dedicates, or permits the use of, at
least 25% of the utilized square footage of its premises for sexually-oriented
business activity or activities; or
      (2)   Where at least 25% of the gross receipts of a business
establishment, excluding food and beverage receipts, result from sexually-
oriented business activity or activities.
   PUBLIC BUILDING.  Any building owned, leased or held by the United States,
the state, the county, a city, town, township, any special district, school
district or any other agency or political subdivision of the state or the
United States, which building is used for government purposes.
   PUBLIC PARK or RECREATION AREA.  Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities, including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian or bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas or
similar public land within the county which is under the control, operation or
management of the United States, the state, the county, a city, town, township,
any special district, school district or any other agency or political
subdivision of the state or the United States.
   REGULARLY.  As used in the phrases herein such as “regularly features” and
“regularly offers”, the term “regularly” means a consistent and repeated course
of conduct engaged in or permitted by the operator of the business.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   RESIDENCE.  Any structure, manufactured home or mobile home used by one or
more persons as a dwelling.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE.  A single-family, duplex, townhouse, multiple-
family or mobile home park or subdivision and campground as defined in the
County Code.
   SCHOOL.  Any public or private educational facility, including but not
limited to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges and universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not
include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally
as a school.
   SELF-DESIGNATED SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS CENTER.  Any establishment which
designates all or a portion of its premises as for adults only and has a policy
of excluding minors from its premises or from a portion of its premises and
which advertises so as to convey the impression that the services,
entertainment, matter or goods available at the premises or at the portion of
the premises designated for adults only are characterized or distinguished by
displays of human genitals or sexual activities.
   SEMI-NUDE OR SEMI-NUDITY.  The appearance of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point. This
definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast,
but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast
exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a
state of semi-nudity, is provided for money or any form of consideration to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons.
   SEX CLUB also known as a SWINGERS CLUB.  An establishment which provides
patrons the opportunity to voluntarily engage in and/or view live consensual
sexual activity and which collects remuneration of any kind, including entrance
fees, facility use fees, gratuities, fees for goods provided for in excess of
their value and/or donations.
   SEXUAL DEVICE.  Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genital organ or anus, or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, and shall include devices
such as dildos, vibrators and penis pumps, and shall also include other devices
with non-sex related utility, such as leather whips, straps and ligatures, when
such devices are marketed in a context suggesting sexual or sado-masochistic
purposes. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include devices
primarily intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for
preventing pregnancy. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to restrict
sales by any pharmacy, drug store, medical provider or any establishment
primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare products or services.
   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include any
pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic or any establishment primarily dedicated
to providing medical or healthcare products or services.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER OR ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of its principal
business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
         (a)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
         (b)   Activities between persons of the opposite sex and/or persons of
the same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-
nudity.
      (2)   A principal business purpose exists if the services offered are
intended to generate business income.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
fully and opaquely covered;  or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.  Includes any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; sexual assault;
molestation of a child; or any similar sex-related offenses to those described
above under the criminal or penal code of this state, other states or other
countries;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are for two or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any 24-month period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts, whether covered or uncovered;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS.  The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 15%, as the floor areas
existed on the effective date of this chapter.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
that transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.143  CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented business uses are classified as either non-live
entertainment, or live entertainment, as follows:
   (A)   Non-live entertainment shall include:
      (1)   Adult arcades;
      (2)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
      (3)   Adult motels; or
      (4)   Adult motion picture theaters.
   (B)   Live entertainment shall include:
      (1)   Adult theaters;
      (2)   Adult cabarets;
      (3)   Escort agencies;
      (4)   Nude model studios; or
      (5)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.144  LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Sexually-oriented businesses shall only be permitted in any Sexually-
Oriented Business (SOB) Zoning District provided that:
   (A)   The sexually oriented business may not be operated within:
      (1)   One thousand feet of a church, synagogue, mosque, temple or
building which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious
activities;
      (2)   One thousand feet of a public or private educational facility
including but not limited to child day care facilities, nursery schools,
preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, private schools, intermediate
schools, junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education school, junior
colleges and universities; school includes the school ground, but does not
include facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as
a school;
      (3)   One thousand feet of a public park or recreational area which has
been designated for park or recreational activities including but not limited
to a park, playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field,
basketball or tennis courts, skating rink, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness
areas or other similar public land within the village which is under the
control, operation or management of the village park and recreation
authorities;
      (4)   One thousand feet of a property line of a zoned lot for residential
or mixed-use and devoted to a residential or mixed-use as defined in the zoning
ordinance; or
      (5)   One thousand feet of another sexually oriented business.
   (B)   A sexually-oriented business may not be operated in the same building,
structure or portion thereof, containing another sexually oriented business
that is classified in accordance with §
154.143 Classification.
   (C)   All uses established or placed into operation after the effective date
of this chapter shall comply with the following performance standards. No use
in existence on the effective date of this chapter shall be so altered or
modified as to conflict with these standards.
      (1)   Vibration. No use shall cause earth vibrations or concussions
detectable beyond the lot lines without the aid of instruments.
      (2)   Smoke, particulate matter, noxious matter. No use shall emit smoke
of a density exceeding that of a normal commercial establishment. No use shall
be permitted to burn any materials or chemicals other than standard heating
fuels such as fuel oil, propane or natural gas, with the exception of food
preparation facilities. Commercial operations which require the burning of
other materials must be approved by the Area Plan Commission.
      (3)   Odor. No use shall emit across the lot lines odor in such quantity
as to be readily detectable at any point along the lot lines and as to be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause injury
to property.
      (4)   Sound. No use shall produce sound in such a manner as to endanger
the public health, safety or welfare or cause injury to property. Sound shall
be muffled so as not to become detrimental due to intermittence, beat
frequency, shrillness or vibration.
      (5)   Heat and glare. No use shall produce heat or glare creating a
hazard perceptible from any point beyond lot lines.
      (6)   Waste matter. No use shall accumulate within the lot or discharge
beyond the lot lines any waste matter, whether liquid or solid, in violation of
the applicable standards and regulations of the Department of Environment
Management or in such a manner as to endanger the public health, safety or
welfare or cause injury to property.
      (7)   Junk automobiles (vehicles). Vehicles not in operating condition
and parked at a commercial location more than 30 days may be removed from the
property with the notification by certified mail to vehicle owner. These
vehicles will be towed at owner’s expense to a holding area for 30 days and
then disposed of to a legal salvage yard. Notification and removal will be
under court and police supervision. A show cause hearing will not be held for
these violations.
      (8)   Unnecessary clutter. No one shall be permitted to heap, litter or
strew in a confused and disorderly manner, any materials or objects on property
owned leased or rented for commercial purposes.
      (9)   Burning of materials. No use shall permit burning of any materials
or chemicals except as fuels in approved heating or manufacturing process
facilities.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.145  MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   (A)   The distance between any two sexually-oriented businesses shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the
closest exterior structural wall of each business. The distance between any
sexually-oriented business and any religious institution, school, boys club,
girls club, public park or any residence or property zoned for residential use,
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures
or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as part
of the premises where the sexually oriented business is conducted, to the
nearest property line of the premises of a religious institution, school, boys
club, girls club, public park or any residence or property zoned for
residential use.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A) above, the distance between any two
sexually-oriented business uses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of
the structure in which each business is located.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.146  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state, a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (2)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, movies rated G,
PG, PG-13 or R, by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), or live
theatrical performances with serious artistic, social, or political value, that
depict or describe specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities,
are expressly exempted from regulation under this chapter.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter that an
employee of a sexually-oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee’s bona fide use of a restroom, or during the employee’s bona fide use
of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.147  NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date of this chapter
that is in violation of the location or structural configuration requirements
of this chapter shall be deemed a non-conforming use. The non-conforming use
will be permitted to operate for a period not to exceed one year following the
effective date of this chapter in order to make a reasonable recoupment of its
investment in its current location. Such non-conforming uses shall not be
increased, enlarged, extended or altered except that the use may be changed to
a conforming use. If two or more sexually-oriented businesses are within 1,000
feet of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually
oriented business that was first established and continually operated at a
particular location is the conforming use and the later-established business
(es) is non-conforming.
   (B)   A sexually-oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a non-conforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually-oriented business license, of a church, synagogue or
regular place of religious worship, public or private elementary or secondary
school, licensed day-care center, public park or residential district within
1,000 feet of the sexually-oriented business. This provision applies only to
the renewal of a valid business license, and does not apply when an application
for a business license is submitted after an operator’s license has expired or
has been revoked.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.148  PERMITS; ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a person is in violation of this chapter if
he or she operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business
without this permit. (See permit fee schedule on file with the Area Plan
Commission.)
   (B)   The County Area Plan Commission is responsible for granting, denying,
revoking, renewing, suspending and canceling sexually-oriented business permits
for proposed or existing sexually-oriented businesses. The Area Plan Commission
of the county is also responsible for ascertaining whether a proposed sexually
oriented business for which a permit is being applied for complies with all
locational requirements and all applicable zoning laws.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.149  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No person shall maintain, operate, conduct or cause to be conducted,
any sexually-oriented business within the limits of the county without first
obtaining a permit under this section.
   (B)   Applications for a sexually-oriented business permit, whether original
or renewal, must be made to the Area Plan Commission by the intended operator
of the enterprise. An application shall be considered complete if it includes
the information required in this section. The applicant shall be qualified
according to the provisions of this chapter. The application is complete when
it includes the information and items required in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2)
below.
      (1)   The following information shall be provided on the application
form:
         (a)   The full true name of the applicant, and any other names or
aliases used in the preceding five years;
         (b)   The applicant’s current street address (and mailing address if
different);
         (c)   Proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age, consisting
of either:
            1.   A copy of the applicant’s birth certificate and current photo;
            2.   A copy of the applicant’s driver’s license with picture; or
            3.   Another picture identification document issued by a government
agency.
         (d)   The name of the business, the business location and legal
description of the property and a description of the type of sexually oriented
business;
         (e)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
         (f)   A signed statement stating the following:
            1.   That the business is authorized by the state to conduct
business within the state;
            2.   That the site being applied for meets the requirements of §
154.144 of this chapter; and
            3.   The name and address of the statutory agent or other agent
authorized to receive service of process.
         (g)   If a person wishing to operate a sexually-oriented business is
an individual, he or she shall sign the application for a permit as applicant.
If an entity (partnership, corporation, limited liability company or the like)
or group of individuals seeks to obtain a permit, each individual with 30% or
greater ownership interest must sign as an applicant under oath and provide the
information required in this section.
      (2)   The applicant shall be required to pay a non-refundable application
fee as set forth in the Permit Fee Schedule on file with the Area Plan
Commission.
      (3)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with the
application for a permit under this chapter shall be maintained by the county
on a confidential basis, and may be disclosed only:
         (a)   To other governmental agencies in connection with a bona fide
law enforcement or public safety function; or
         (b)   As may otherwise be required by law or a court order.
      (4)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event that the information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with this continuing duty within 30 days
from the date of the change by supplementing the application on file with the
Area Plan Commission shall be grounds for suspension of a permit.
      (5)   In the event that the Building Commissioner or his or her designee
determines or learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed
the application for a proposed sexually-oriented business, the Building
Commissioner shall promptly notify the applicant of that fact and allow the
applicant ten days to properly complete the application. The time period for
granting or denying a permit shall be stayed during the period in which the
applicant is allowed an opportunity to properly complete the application.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.150  INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the county and upon
payment of the nonrefundable application fee, the Area Plan Commission shall
immediately stamp the application as received and shall immediately thereafter
send photocopies of the application to the county agencies responsible for
enforcement of this chapter. Each department or agency shall promptly conduct
an investigation of the applicant, application and the proposed sexually-
oriented business in accordance with its responsibilities under law and as set
forth in this chapter. The investigation shall be completed within 20 days of
receipt of the application by the county. At the conclusion of its
investigation, each department or agency shall indicate on the photocopy of the
application its approval or disapproval of the application, date it, sign it
and in the event it disapproves, state the reasons therefore.
   (B)   After its indication of approval or disapproval, each department or
agency shall immediately return the photocopy of the application to the county.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.151  ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Area Plan Commission shall either issue a permit or a written
denial to the applicant within 30 days of the receipt of the application.
   (B)   After the investigation, the Area Plan Commission shall issue a
sexually-oriented business permit, unless it is determined that one or more of
the following is true:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (3)   The premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business are not
in compliance with the location requirements of §
154.144;
      (4)   The applicant failed to pay the non-refundable permit application
fee; and/or
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually-oriented business permit revoked
within the previous year.
   (C)   The granting of a sexually-oriented business permit to a permitee
shall be for a period of one year and non-transferable to any other person
other than the applicant listed on the application and is valid only for the
location listed on the application.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.152  FEES.
   The application fee for a sexually-oriented business is listed in the permit
fee schedule on file with the Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.153  INSPECTION.
   A sexually-oriented business permittee shall permit representatives of the
Police Department and/or the Health Department to inspect the premises at any
time the establishment is open for business. Such inspection shall be limited
to visual assessment of the activities conducted in areas to which patrons have
access or are allowed access; to requests for inspection of the licenses
required under this chapter; and to requests for identification of those
individuals who reasonably appear to be under the age of 18.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.154  EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
154.149. Application for renewal shall be made not more than 120 days and not
less than 90 days before the expiration date, and when made less than 90 days
before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.155  SUSPENSION.
   The county shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend a permit for a
period not to exceed 30 days if a permittee has knowingly violated any section
of this chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee of the sexually-oriented
business to violate this chapter. The issuance of a written notice of intent to
suspend shall not be a prerequisite to issuance of a written notice of intent
to revoke a permit per §
154.156.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.156  REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Area Plan Commission or its designee shall issue written notice of
intent to revoke a permit if a cause of suspension in §
154.155 occurs and the permit has been suspended for any reason within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The Area Plan Commission or its designee shall issue written notice to
revoke a permit if:
      (1)   A permittee gave materially false or misleading information in the
material submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A permittee has, with knowledge, permitted the possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A permittee has, with knowledge, permitted prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A permittee has, with knowledge, operated the sexually-oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee’s permit was suspended; or
      (5)   A permittee has, with knowledge, permitted any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sexual conduct to
occur in or on the licensed premises.
   (C)   When the county revokes a permit, the revocation shall continue for
one year, and the permittee shall not be issued a permit for one year from the
date revocation became effective.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.157  ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   If facts exist for denial, suspension or revocation of a permit under
this chapter, the Area Plan Commission shall notify the applicant or permittee
(respondent) in writing of the intent to deny, suspend or revoke the permit,
including the grounds therefor, by personal delivery or by certified mail. The
notification shall be directed to the most current business address on file
with the Area Plan Commission. Within five working days of receipt of such
notice, the respondent may provide to the Area Plan Commission, in writing, a
response that shall include a statement of reasons why the permit should not be
denied, suspended or revoked. Within three days of the receipt of respondent’s
written response, the Area Plan Commission shall notify respondent in writing
of the hearing date on respondent’s denial, suspension or revocation
proceeding.
   (B)   Within ten working days of the receipt of respondent’s written
response, the Area Plan Commission shall conduct a hearing at which respondent
shall have the opportunity to be represented by counsel and present evidence
and witnesses on his or her behalf. The Area Plan Commission shall issue a
written opinion and decision within five days of the hearing. If a response is
not received by the Area Plan Commission in the time provided or if after a
hearing, the Area Plan Commission finds that grounds as specified in this
chapter exist for denial, suspension or revocation, then such denial,
suspension or revocation shall become final five days after the Area Plan
Commission sends, by certified mail, written notice that the permit has been
denied, suspended or revoked. Such notice shall include a statement advising
the applicant or permittee of the right to appeal such decision to a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   If the Area Plan Commission finds that no grounds exist for denial,
suspension or revocation of a permit, then within five days after the hearing,
the Area Plan Commission shall withdraw the intent to deny, suspend or revoke
the permit, and shall so notify the respondent in writing by certified mail of
such action and, in the case of an application for a permit, shall
contemporaneously issue the permit.
   (D)   (1)   When a decision to deny, suspend or revoke a permit becomes
final, the applicant or permittee (aggrieved party) whose application for a
permit has been denied, or whose permit has been suspended or revoked, shall
have the right to appeal such action to a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   The following shall apply to businesses that have previously
obtained a license under this chapter: upon the filing of any court action to
appeal, challenge, restrain or otherwise enjoin the county’s enforcement of the
denial, suspension or revocation, the county shall immediately issue the
aggrieved party a provisional permit. The provisional permit shall allow the
aggrieved party to continue operation of the sexually-oriented business, and
will expire upon the court’s entry of a judgment on the aggrieved party’s
action to appeal, challenge, restrain or otherwise enjoin the county’s
enforcement.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.158  NO TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another, nor shall
a permittee operate a sexually-oriented business under the authority of a
permit at any other place than the address designated in the application and
set forth in the operator’s permit.
   (B)   An operator’s permit shall not be transferable from one location to
another.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.159  MINORS ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   A person is in violation of this chapter if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually-oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for that business under this chapter, and knowingly or with
reasonable cause to know, permits, suffers or allows:
   (A)   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age to the business premises;
   (B)   A person under 18 years of age to remain at the business premises;
   (C)   A person under 18 years of age to purchase goods or services at the
business premises; or
   (D)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business premises
as an employee.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.160  EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually-oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually-oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually-oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings or pictorial representations of any matter except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   All off-street parking areas and premise entries of the sexually-
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot-candle of light on the parking surface and walkways.
This required lighting level is established in order to provide sufficient
illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually-oriented
business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to reduce the
incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be shown on the
required sketch or diagram of the premises. (For further parking regulations
see §§
154.120 through
154.126.)
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.161  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No sexually-oriented business may remain open at any time between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any particular day.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to prohibit the operation of businesses
licensed by the state Alcoholic Beverage Commissioner during the lawful hours
of operation as provided by the state Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.162  PUBLIC NUDITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The U.S. Supreme Court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc. 501
U.S., Ill. S.Ct. 2456, (June 21, 1991), which upheld the rights of local
governments to prohibit live public exposure of a person’s private parts,
specifically applies to sexually-oriented businesses, regardless of whether or
not a permit has been issued to those businesses under this chapter, including
those businesses where no alcoholic beverages are sold, served or consumed at
the premises.
   (B)   Public nudity is prohibited within the county, including any sexually-
oriented business. Any sexually-oriented business which is found in violation
of this section shall have its permit suspended pursuant to the provisions of §
154.155 Suspension of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.163  OPERATION WITHOUT VALID PERMIT PROHIBITED.
   A person is in violation of this chapter if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually-oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for that business under this chapter, and that person knows or
should know that:
   (A)   The business does not have a sexually-oriented business permit under
this chapter for any applicable classification;
   (B)   The business has a permit which is under suspension;
   (C)   The business has a permit which has been revoked; or
   (D)   The business has a permit which has expired.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.164  CULPABLE MENTAL STATE REQUIRED TO ESTABLISH LIABILITY.
   Where any provision or offense herein fails to state a necessary level of
culpability to establish a violation or liability, the offense shall be
established upon a showing that the person acted knowingly or recklessly with
regard to the predicate act. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the
purposes of this chapter, an act by an employee shall be imputed to the
sexually oriented business permittee for the purpose of establishing a
violation of this chapter, or for purposes of license denial, suspension or
revocation only if a permittee allowed, either knowingly or recklessly, a
violation of this chapter to occur.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.165  INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business
in violation of this chapter, is subject to a suit for injunction. If any
injunction must be sought, attorney’s fees and costs will be assessed at the
discretion of the court against the violator.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.166  SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS LOT LAYOUTS.
   TABLE 17-1: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS LOT LAYOUTS
 SOB
                             SOB
Lot Size
Minimum corner lot width (1) 120 feet
Minimum lot area             15,000 square feet
Minimum lot width (1)        100 feet
Setbacks and Yards
Minimum open space           10%
Minimum rear yard            25 feet
Minimum setback (2)          50 feet
Minimum side yard            15 feet
Structure Size
Maximum height               35 feet
Minimum area per floor       1,000 square feet
Minimum floor area           1,000 square feet
(1)   Lot width is measured at the building line.
(2)   Any side of a lot that faces a public street or public right-of-way
shall be considered a front and shall have the appropriate setback, measured
from the centerline of the road or street. Under no circumstance shall the
front yard setback be less than 25 feet from the right-of-way line.
 
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006; Ord. 04, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
ABANDONED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES
§ 154.180  PUBLIC NUISANCE FINDING.
   The county, City of North Vernon and Town of Vernon find that abandoned
vehicles are a public nuisance, safety and health hazard.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.181  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for three days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard of obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission or differential, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than
the state’s Abandoned Vehicle Act, being I.C. 9-22-1, if the vehicle, once
impounded, is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or his or her agent within
15 days of its removal; or
      (7)   A vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from the public property for more than 30 days.
   AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD.  A business organized for the purpose of scrap
metal processing, automobile wrecking or operating a junkyard.
   BUREAU.  The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   FISCAL BODY.  The County Sheriff’s Department, North Vernon City Council or
Vernon Town Marshal.
   OFFICER.  The County Sheriff’s Department, North Vernon City Police or
Vernon Town Marshal.
   OWNER.  The last known titleholder of a vehicle according to records of the
Bureau under I.C. 9-17.
   PARTS.  All components of a vehicle that as assembled do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
   PERSON.  An individual, firm, corporation, association, fiduciary or
governmental entity.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY.  All property other than public property.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.  Area Plan Commission acting through the County Sheriff’s
Department, North Vernon City Police and the Vernon Town Marshal, which given
the responsibility by this subchapter for the removal, storage and disposal of
abandoned vehicles.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY.  A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
   TOWING SERVICE.  A business that engages in moving or removing disabled
vehicles, and, once removed, to store or impound vehicles.
   VEHICLE.  An automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle or motorized bicycle.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.182  LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment and is
liable, to the extent of the market value of the vehicle, for the costs
incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or parts.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.183  UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other
organization, either as the owner thereof, or as the entity in possession of,
any real estate within the county, City of North Vernon or Town of Vernon, to
permit, cause, suffer or otherwise allow, one or more inoperative, or partially
or totally wrecked motor vehicles, or any other item of equipment, machinery or
other personal property, in either a similar state of disrepair or in a state
that is commonly recognized or defined as junk, to be stored or otherwise
retained or remain upon any real estate within this county, City of North
Vernon or Town of Vernon for any period in excess of three days on public
property, provided that, this section shall not be applicable to any such motor
vehicle or other personal property, as aforesaid, parked, stored or retained
within a garage, or other similar enclosed structure, which structure is
permanently located on such real estate to the rear of the building line of the
principal building on such real estate.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.184  PUBLIC POLICY.
   It is further declared to be the public policy of this county, city and town
that any inoperative, or partially or totally wrecked motor vehicle, which is
permitted to remain parked, over, upon and along any street or other public
thoroughfare within this county, city or town for any period in excess of 48
hours, shall be, and is expressly declared to be presumed to be an abandoned
motor vehicle, within the meaning of, and the context of, the appropriate
statues of the state, as now exist, or as hereafter may be amended. In the
event such motor vehicle, as aforesaid, is so parked or stored, the Police
Department, Sheriff’s Department or Town Marshal of this county, city or town
shall be, and by this chapter specifically is directed, authorized and required
to take action against such abandoned motor vehicle as authorized and required
by the appropriate statutes of the state, reference abandoned motor vehicles.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.185  PROCEDURE FOR DECLARATION OF ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner and the person cannot establish his or her right to the
possession of this vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in
suitable place. The Bureau shall be notified within 72 hours of the location
and description of the vehicle. Upon receipt of notification, the Bureau shall
cause a search to be made to determine and notify the owner in accordance with
I.C. 9-22-1.
   (B)   If the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined, the Bureau shall
declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for its disposal in accordance with
the State Abandoned Vehicle Act, being I.C. 9-22-1.
   (C)   If the properly identified owner or lien holder appears at the site of
storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all proper costs
incurred against it at the time, then the vehicle or parts shall be released. A
copy of the release must contain the owner or lien holder’s signature, name,
address, vehicle or parts description, costs and the date of release.
   (D)   If the vehicle is not released to the owner or lien holder, the Bureau
will declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for disposal in accordance with
the State Abandoned Vehicle Act, being I.C. 9-22-1.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.186  NOTICE TAG AND DISPOSAL OR STORAGE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned shall
attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   That the owner will be held responsible for all costs, incidental
to the removal, storage and disposal, and if not paid, the owner’s registration
privileges will be suspended on that car by the Bureau; and
      (5)   That the owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts
within 72 hours.
   (B)   If a tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within that 72-hour
period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the
vehicle or parts, including information of the condition, missing parts, and
other facts that might substantiate a market value of less than $750.
Photographs shall be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
   (C)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is less than $100, the officer shall immediately dispose of
the vehicle to an automobile salvage yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle
report and photographs relating to the abandoned vehicle report shall be
forwarded to the Bureau. The County Sheriff’s Department, North Vernon City
Police or Town Marshal of Vernon shall retain the original records and
photographs for at least two years.
   (D)   If in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is $100 or more, the officer, before placing a notice tag on
the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the owner or
person who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72 hours, the
officer shall require the vehicle parts to be towed to a storage area.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.187  ABANDONED VEHICLE REPORT.
   When 72 hours have occurred after removal of an abandoned vehicle storage
area, the County Sheriff’s Department, North Vernon City Police or Vernon Town
Marshal shall prepare and forward to the Bureau an abandoned vehicle report
containing a description of the vehicle including the make, model, engine
number, if any, identification number, the number of the license plate, and
request that the Bureau advise the Department of the name and most recent
mailing address of the owner and any lien holder.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.188  BUREAU’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be the Bureau’s responsibility to:
   (A)   Conduct a reasonable search through the national automobile theft
bureau and the State Police Department to determine whether the vehicle or
parts have been reported as stolen;
   (B)   Conduct a reasonable search of Bureau records to determine the owner
of the vehicle or parts or lien holder of record; and
   (C)   If a reasonable search discloses the name and address of the owner or
lien holder, mail a written notice by first class mail to the owner with a copy
to any lien holder indicating that the vehicle or parts have been impounded at
a certain location and must be removed within 15 days of the date of mailing of
the notice and advising that the vehicle or parts will be disposed of after
that time and that all costs incurred in removing and storing the vehicle or
parts are his or her legal responsibility.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.189  DISPOSITION AND SALE OF STORED VEHICLES.
   (A)   If the vehicle or parts are in such condition that vehicle
identification numbers or other means of identification are not available to
determine the owner or lien holder, the vehicle may be disposed of without
notice.
   (B)   If the owner or lien holder does not appear within 15 days after the
mailing of notice, the Bureau will sell the vehicle or parts to the highest
bidder at a public sale conducted after notice under  I.C. 5-3-1, except only
one newspaper insertion one week before the public sale is required.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.190  BILL OF SALE, DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The purchaser will be furnished a bill of sale for each abandoned
vehicle sold by the Bureau. The County Sheriff’s Department, North Vernon City
Police and Vernon Town Marshal shall upon request furnish evidence as to the
roadworthiness of any vehicle sold by the Bureau pursuant to the State
Abandoned Vehicle Act, being I.C. 9-22-1.
   (B)   In order to facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the
County Sheriff’s Department, North Vernon City Police or the Vernon Town
Marshal may employ personnel and acquire equipment, property and facilities and
enter into towing contracts as necessary for the purpose of removal, storage
and a disposition of abandoned vehicles and parts.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.191  VEHICLES LEFT ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; COMPLAINTS.
   Upon complaint of a private property owner or persons in control of the
property that a vehicle has been on the property for 48 hours or more without
the consent of the owner or persons in control, the officer shall follow the
procedures set forth in §
154.185.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.192  LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE TO VEHICLES DURING REMOVAL, STORAGE OR
DISPOSITION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-32, neither the owner, lessee or occupant of the
property from which an abandoned vehicle or parts are removed nor a public
agency, towing service or automobile salvage is liable for loss or damage to
the vehicle or parts occurring during its removal, storage or disposition.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.193  PAYMENT OF COSTS FROM ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT; MAXIMUM CHARGE.
   (A)   The costs for removal and storage of an abandoned vehicle or parts not
claimed by the owner or lien holder shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle
Account.
   (B)   The charge payable by the owner or lien holder for towing, storing or
removing an abandoned vehicle or parts shall not exceed a sum as set by the
Board and/or Council from time to time for the towing of each abandoned vehicle
or load of parts and a sum per day as set by the Board and/or Council from time
to time or any part of a day for the storage of each abandoned vehicle or load
of parts.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.194  PROCEEDS OF SALE CREDITED AGAINST COSTS.
   The proceeds of sale of an abandoned vehicle or parts in accordance with the
State Abandoned Vehicle Act, being I.C. 9-22-1, shall be credited against all
costs incident to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.195  ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   All proceeds from the sale of abandoned vehicles or parts that are disposed
of by the County Sheriff’s Department, North Vernon City Police or Vernon Town
Marshal, including all moneys received from owners or lien holders for the cost
of removal or storage of vehicles shall be deposited in the County General Fund
by the County Sheriff’s Department, the North Vernon Clerk-Treasurer or the
Clerk-Treasurer for the Town of Vernon and placed in the Abandoned Vehicle
Account Fund. The fiscal body shall annually appropriate sufficient moneys to
that account for this purpose.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.196  EXEMPT VEHICLES.
   This subchapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on a privately owned raceway;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sales lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard;
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12, as an antique
vehicle; or
   (F)   Any duly licensed and operating motor vehicle dealer, agency, garage
or business of similar character, when such motor vehicle dealer, agency,
garage or business of similar character is storing such motor vehicle
preliminary to repair thereof, or solely preliminary to insurance settlement,
provided that such motor vehicle so stored, as aforesaid, continues to be
titled in the name of some other person than the person, firm or corporation
operating such motor vehicle dealership, agency, garage or other business of
similar character.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
APPLICATIONS AND FEES
§ 154.210  PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE.
   The current county permit fee schedule can be obtained separately from the
County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006; Ord. 05, 2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 154.211  REZONING APPLICATION.
 
For Office Use Only
 
Case #:                 
Hearing Date:        
Fees:                      
 
Approved      Denied
Jennings County Area Plan Commission
Rezoning Application
200 E. Brown St., P.O. Box 400, Vernon, IN 47282
 
1. Applicant/Property Owner:
Applicant:                  Owner:
Name:                                                                Name:    
                                                       
Address:                                                            Address:  
                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                 
Phone #:                                                            Phone #:   
                                                     
Fax #:                                                                Fax #:   
                                                         
 
2. Applicant’s Attorney/Contact Person and Project Engineer (if any):
Attorney/Contact Person:            Project Engineer:
Name:                                                                Name:    
                                                       
Address:                                                            Address:  
                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                 
Phone #:                                                            Phone #:   
                                                     
Fax #:                                                                Fax #:   
                                                         
 
3. Project Information:
General Location of Property (and address if      Current Use:                 
                                 
applicable):                                                        Current
Zoning:                                               
                                                                 
      Proposed Use:                                                 
                                                                       Proposed
Zoning:                                             
                                                                       Area (in
acres):                                                 
 
4. Reasons for Rezoning Request:
                                                                               
                                                               
                                                                               
                                                               
                                                                               
                                                               
 
5. Attachments:
   [  ]   Affidavit & Consent of Property Owner (if applicable)         [ 
]   Vicinity Map
   [  ]   Proof of ownership (copy of deed)                  [  ]   Application
Fee
   [  ]   Letter of Intent                        [  ]   Legal Description
   [  ]   Site Plan
 
The undersigned states the above information is true and correct as (s)he is
informed and believes.
Signature of Applicant:                                                       
         Date:                                 
AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE TO INTERESTED PARTIES
Public Hearing of the Jennings County Area Plan Commission
I,                                                    , DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT
NOTICE TO INTERESTED
    (Name of person mailing letters)
PARTIES OF THE PUBLIC HEARING BY THE JENNINGS COUNTY PLAN COMMISSION, to
consider the application of:                                                   
                                                                               
:
                              (Name of person on application)
Requesting:                                                                   
                                                                               
       
                                                                               
                                                                               
           
For Property Located at:                                                      
                                                                               
   
Was sent to the following owners and addresses as listed in the Plat Books of
Jennings County (attach additional sheets if necessary):
OWNERS               ADDRESS
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                   
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
And that said notices were sent on or before the                day of         
                  ,             , being at least ten days prior to the date of
the Public Hearing.
                                                                              
     
                                 (Name of person mailing the letters)
 
AFFIDAVIT & CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNER
Application to the Jennings County Area Plan Commission
 
I,                                                                      , AFTER
BEING DULY SWORN, DEPOSE AND
   (Name of property owner)
SAY THE FOLLOWING:
1.   That I am the owner of real estate located at                             
                                          ;
                     (Address of affected property)                 
2.   That I have read and examined the Application made to the Jennings County
Area Plan Commission by:                                                       
                                                                          ;
                                                   (Name of applicant)         
                                               
3.   That I have no objections to, and consent to the request(s) described in
the Application made to the Jennings County Area Plan Commission.
                                                                               
 
                                          Owner’s Name (Please Print)
                                                                               
 
                                          Owner’s Signature             
State of Indiana   )
County of Jennings   ) SS:
 
   Subscribed and sworn to before me this              day of           ,      
          .
                                                                         /     
                               
   Notary Public                                                         
Printed                     
   Residing in                        County    My Commission expires          
         
 
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.212  IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT APPLICATION.
Jennings County Area Plan Commission                        Permit #          
         
Application for Improvement Location Permit
200 E. Brown St. P.O. Box 400, Vernon, IN 47282
The undersigned agrees that any construction, reconstruction, enlargement,
relocation or alteration of structures, or any change in the land or structures
by this application will comply with and confirm all applicable laws of the
State of Indiana and Ordinance of the County of Jennings, Indiana, adopted
under the authority of the Indiana Code:
Name & Address: Phone #                                  Mailing Address:      
                                                                               
                                                                           
Proposed Use: Garage                                  Room Addition            
                     Utility Shed                            
Pole Barn                                     Pool                             
      Sign                                  Other                             
Location of Property: Lot #                                                
Addition                                                                      
Street or Road #                                                              
Township                                                                      
Other description of property:                           Section              
        Township                       Range                     Zoning
classification:                                                                
                                     
Type of construction:                                                          
                                      Approx. Cost                        
Size:    Width                             Depth                            
Area (Sq. Ft.)                             Basement                    
Living                     Non-living                     Bedrooms            
        Full Baths                       1/2 baths            
Electric Co.                                                 Flood Zone (A) or
(C)                                             (Check flood map)
** Material list required for building permits. Plans, sewer and/or septic
permits if plumbing is involved and driveway permit. Check back of property
card and discuss setbacks.
General Contractor                                                            
                                                                               
   
Footer/Foundation                                                              
                                                                               
   
Structure                                                                      
                                                                               
       
Electrical                                                                     
                                                                               
       
Plumbing                                                                      
                                                                               
       
Mechanical                                                                     
                                                                               
     
Signed: Owner/Agent/Applicant                                                  
                                                                           
Date:                                         Permit fee:                      
                  Septic Permit No.                                    
                                    (If applicable)
Lot Dimensions:                                             Lot Width          
                              Acres                                    
Setbacks:  Front Yard                                   Back Yard              
                        Side Yard                                  
Site Improvement Location Permit #                                            
                                                                           
Issued:                                                                        
         Denied:                                                              
       
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of chapter. Any person, firm or corporation who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be liable for a penal fine and the penalty
shall be a fine as set by the Board and/or Council from time to time, and each
day that a violation is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense. In addition, violators shall be subject to reimbursement to Area Plan
Commission of all costs, including legal fees, of enforcement herein.
      (1)   Any structure erected, raised or converted, or land or premises
used in violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
common nuisance, and the owner of such structure, land or premises shall be
liable for maintaining a common nuisance.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals, Area Plan Commission or the Zoning
Enforcement Officer may institute a suit for injunction in the Circuit Court to
restrain any person, firm or corporation or a governmental unit from violating
the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The Board of Zoning Appeals or Area Plan Commission may institute a
suit for a mandatory injunction in the Circuit Court directing an individual,
firm, corporation or governmental unit to remove a structure erected in
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Penalty of non-licensed individuals. Any individual, firm, corporation
or independent contractor doing electrical wiring, for hire/pay without an
electrical license in violation of §
154.085 shall receive a fine as set by the Board and/or Council from time to
time as set by the County of Jennings, City of North Vernon and Town of Vernon
from time to time.
   (C)   Penalty for abandoned vehicles. Any person, firm or corporation
violating any of the provisions of §§
154.180 through
154.196 shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, such
violators shall be fined in a sum as set by the Board and/or Council from time
to time.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
Appendix A: Airport Zoning Easement and Covenant
            EASEMENT AND COVENANT
Comes now                                                                      
                 owner(s) of certain real property in the county,
State of Indiana, being more particularly described as follows:
And, for and in consideration of the issuance by                              
                                                          of a permit
to construct a certain residence on said real property in accordance with the
terms of owners’ application, owner(s) hereby give, grant and demise unto      
                                                                               
                    , its successors
and assignments as easement for the passage of aircraft using said airport at a
safe and reasonable height above the residence. Said easement shall continue in
full force and effect at all times so long as there shall be an airport at or
near the present location of                                                  
                                                                               
                          .
Owners agree not to construct or erect any building, improvement, tower or
antenna which would extend higher than                            feet above
the existing ground level.
It is understood by the owners and owners’ successors in interest that the
above-described real property lies in close proximity to an operating airport
and that the operation of the airport and the landing and take-off of aircraft
may generate high noise levels.
Owners covenant that they shall not initiate or support any action in any court
or before any governmental agency if the purpose of the action is to interfere
with, restrict, or reduce the operation of the airport or the use of an airport
by any aircraft. Owners further covenant that they shall not protest or object
to the operation of the airport or the landing or take-off of aircraft before
any court or agency or government. The covenants contained herein shall run
with the land and shall be binding upon the owners and their heirs, successors
and assigns.
In witness whereof owners have executed this Easement and Covenant this        
                day of                               ,  20____.
Signature                                                      
(Seal)   Signature                                                            
      (Seal)
Printed                                                              Printed  
                                                                           
      owner/grantor                   owner/grantor                           
     
STATE OF
COUNTY OF
Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally
appeared                                                        
who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing Easement and Covenant, and who
having been duly sworn, states that any representations therein contained are
true.
Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this               day of                    
          , 20          .
My commission expires                                                .
Signature                                                             Printed  
                                                              , Notary Public
Resident of                                               County
   This instrument was prepared by                                            
                          , attorney at law.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FUNDS
      
II.   STREET VACATIONS AND CLOSINGS
      
III.   DISTRICTS AND DEVELOPMENT AREAS
      
IV.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
V.   EASEMENTS
      
VI.   PROPERTY TRANSFERS
TABLE I:  FUNDS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./   Date
Res.    Passed Description
No.
2-93    4-4-   Authorizing a County Sheriff Donation Fund
        1993
JC-4-93 8-2-   Authorizing a Jail Commissary Fund
        1993
1-94    1-17-  Establishing the Law Enforcement Fund
        1994
Council 4-21-  Creation of a Non- Reverting Capital Fund for the Board of Parks and
Ord.    1997   Recreation
97-1
Council 5-17-
Ord.    1999   Establishing the Equitable Share Law Enforcement Fund
99-01
Council 1-19-
Ord.    2000   Establishing the County Non- Reverting Animal Control Fund
JC-02
Council 4-17-
Ord.    2000;  Establishing the County Courts Security Fund
00-03;  4-24-
00-03   2000
Council 10-15-
Ord.    2001   Establishing a Rainy Day Fund
01-11
03-05;  6-9-
Council 2003;  Establishing the County Courts Security Fund
Ord.    6-10-
03-02   2003
Council 8-12-
Ord.    2003   Establishing a Gaming Revenue Fund
03-03
Council 10-20-
Ord.    2003   Establishing the Title III Non-Reverting Fund
03-04
Council 10-20-
Ord.    2003   Establishing the County Solid Waste Collection System Fund
03-06
Council 10-20-
Ord.    2003   Establishing a Sales Disclosure Local Fund
03-07
05-04;  5-10-
Council 2005   Establishing the Circuit Court Community Service Fund
Ord.    5-9-
05-04   2005;
05-10   11-14- Establishing the County Identification Security Protection Fund
        2005
Council 6-13-
Ord.    2006   Establishing the County Emergency Management Fund
06-01
Council 9-12-
Ord.    2006   Establishing the County Misdemeanant Fund
06-02
Council 5-13-
Ord.    2008;  Establishing County Courts Security Fund
08-02;  5-27-
08-03   2008
2009-02 3-9-   Establishing a Rainy Day Fund
        2009
00-06   6-8-   Establishing the E911 General Fund
        2009
00-07   6-8-   Establishing the E911 Wireless Fund
        2009
09-09   11-23- Establishing the Commissioners’ Holiday Light Fund
        2009
Council 5-10-
Ord.    2011   Establishing the County Recorder Enhanced Access Fund
2011-02
12-01;  3-13-
Council 2012;  Establishing County Courts’ Security Fund
Ord.    3-13-
12-01   2012
2019-13 12-19- Animal Management Fund
        2019
2021-04 4-8-   Creating the Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
        2021
2021-07 5-27-  Authorizing the use of the Jail Commissary Fund by the County Sheriff
        2021
2021-12 6-24-  Authorizing the use of the Jail Commissary Fund by the County Sheriff
        2021
2021-13 7-8-   Establishing the Jennings County Sheriff’s Department Pension Trust
        2021   Fund
2021-15 8-12-  Jennings County Sheriff’s Department Pension Trust Fund
        2021
2021-16 9-23-  Creating Law Enforcement Reserve Deputy Fund
        2021
              
 
TABLE II:  STREET VACATIONS AND CLOSINGS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Res.  3-1-   Vacating part of Harrison Street in the Town of Hayden, containing 2640 square feet
99-07 1999
Res.  9-20-  Vacating part of the roadway of Water and Market Street, Town of Scipio, containing
99-08 1999   0.525 acres
99-18 12-6-  Vacating part of the roadway of Water and Market Street, Town of Scipio, containing
      1999   0.525 acres
00-13 7-20-  Vacating part of Harrison Street between Lots 15 and 18 and part of the unimproved
      2000   alley between Lots 14 and 15 and Lots 16 and 13 of the plat of Hayden
02-04 12-9-  Abandoning and closing a portion of County Road 325 South that lies between County
      2002   Road 700 East and County Road 800 East
03-03 4-28-  Vacating the alleyway platted between Lot 38 and Lot 39 in the Town of Hayden
      2003
2014- 4-24-  Vacating certain alleys and roadway in the Town of Hayden, Spencer Township:
14    2014
              (1)   The east west alley located between Lots 24, 23, 22 and 21 between its
             intersection with Taylor Street to the west and the north south alley to the east
              (2)   The north south alley located between Lots 21 and 20 between its
             intersection with Center Street to the north and the east west alley to the south
              (3)   The north south Taylor Street located between Lots 25 and 24 between its
             intersection with Center Street to the north and the east west alley to the south
             Vacating certain alleys and roadways in the Town of Scipio described as a part of
2014- 12-11- the northwest quarter of Section 2, Township 7 North, Range 7 East; lying in Geneva
23    2014   Township, Jennings County, and intended to be part of the land included in the plat
             of the Town of Scipio
2017- 12-14- Vacating the roadway at County Highway 700 South from Indiana State Highway 3 to
5     2017   Graham Creek contained within Hopewell Cemetery
2017- 12-28- Vacating the roadway at County Highway 400 North between the Purdue University/
6     2017   McKellar Properties, LLC property line and County Highway 550 East with a 250 foot
             set back from County Highway 550 East
2019- 1-10-  Vacating an area of public right-of-way and easement at or about property generally
1     2019   known as West County Road 445 North, North Vernon, Indiana
2019- 12-12- Vacating a roadway 12 feet west to east by 410 feet north to south located at 8395
14    2019   East County Highway 700 North, Butlerville, Indiana
            
 
TABLE III:  DISTRICTS AND DEVELOPMENT AREAS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 2006-03  3-27-2006   Establishment of Muscatatuck Industrial Park Economic
                          Development Area
Res. 2007-03  4-23-2007   Approving the formation of a Regional Water District
                          with Decatur County and Ripley County
                         
TABLE IV:  FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Franchise agreement with Cinergy Metronet, Inc for
05-02         2-28-2005   the operation of a broadband system to offer cable
                          television and other broadband services
                         
 
TABLE V:  EASEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 2015-3   2-26-2015   Donation of a perpetual easement for the Muscatatuck
                          Trail
                         
 
TABLE VI:  PROPERTY TRANSFERS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Transferring property known as Country Squire Lakes,
2016-3        1-28-2016   located in Jennings County and the City of North
                          Vernon, to CSL Community Association, Inc.
                          Authorizing acquisition of real property located on
Res. 2018-14  11-8-2018   the south side of County Road 350 North, to the west
                          of 4th Street for new county jail
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Commission Ordinances
References to Council Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section               Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.11
1-1-1-8                    10.06
1-1-4-5                    10.05
1-1-5-1                    10.11
1-1-6-1                    10.08
Title 3                    31.03
3-5-2-40.1                 31.03
4-21.5                     111.99
4-21.5-3-8                 111.99
5-3-1                      154.189
5-11-1-10                  33.03
5-11-1-21                  33.03
5-11-1-27                  33.03
5-11-1-27(e)               33.03
5-11-1-27(l)               33.03
5-13                       33.04
5-13-9-2                   33.04
5-13-9-5.7                 33.04
5-14-1.5                   34.11
5-14-1.5-2                 32.19
5-14-1.5-5                 32.26
5-14-1.5-5(d)              32.26
5-14-3 et seq.             32.19
5-14-3-2                   33.48,
                           33.99
5-14-3-3                   33.48
5-14-3-3(e)                33.48
5-14-3-3.6                 33.48
5-14-3-4                   33.48
5-14-3-6                   33.48
5-14-3-8(j)                33.48
5-14-3-8(k)                33.48
5-14-3-8.5                 33.48
5-14-3-8.5(b)              33.48
5-22                       31.03
5-22-1-1 et seq.           33.16,
                           33.17
Title 6                    111.22
6-1.1-5-16                 34.10
6-3.5-1.1 et seq.          33.30
6-3.5-1.1-1                33.31
6-3.5-1.1-25               33.30
6-3.5-1.1-25(b)            33.30
6-3.5-1.1-25(d)            33.30
6-3.5-1.1-26               33.31
6-3.5-1.1-26(d)            33.31
6-9-18-3                   31.39,
                           33.34
6-9-18-5                   31.39
6-9-18-5(d)                31.39
8-17-1                     151.01
9-17                       154.181
9-18-12                    154.196
                           154.181,
9-22-1                     154.185,
                           154.190,
                           154.194
9-22-1-32                  154.192
9-29-4-2                   70.03
10-14-1                    32.20,
                           32.26
10-14-3                    32.26
10-14-3.5                  32.16
10-14-3-12                 32.26 ,
                           34.11
                           32.16,
                           32.18,
                           32.19,
10-14-3-17                 32.20,
                           32.21,
                           32.22,
                           32.26
10-14-3-26                 32.21
10-14-3-27(a)              32.21
10-14-3-27(b)              32.21
                           32.21,
10-14-3-29                 32.26 ,
                           34.11
10-14-3-29(a)              32.16,
                           32.26
10-14-3-29.5               32.21
10-14-4                    32.16
10-19-2                    32.16
11-8-8-21                  130.01
11-12-5-5                  33.45
11-12-5-5(b)               33.45
11-12-5-7(b)               33.45
12-7-2-165                 153.003,
                           154.008
13-17                      154.032
13-18-10                   154.050
14-8-2-93                  153.003,
                           154.008
14-16-1-7                  70.01
14-16-1-23                 70.01
14-28-1                    152.46
14-28-1-26                 152.46
Title 15, Article 21       90.08
Title 16                   111.55
16-20-1-10                 111.01
16-20-1-19                 34.06
16-20-1-21                 34.06
16-21                      111.55
16-28                      111.55
16-42-1                    111.99
16-42-2                    111.99
16-42-4-16                 111.99
16-42-5                    111.99
16-42-5-4                  111.22
16-42-5-6                  111.99
16-42-5-7                  111.99
16-42-5-8                  111.99
16-42-5-9                  111.99
16-42-5-10                 111.99
16-42-5-11                 111.99
16-42-5-12                 111.99
16-42-5-13                 111.99
16-42-5-14                 111.99
16-42-5-15                 111.99
16-42-5-17                 111.99
16-42-5-18                 111.99
16-42-5-19                 111.99
16-42-5-20                 111.99
16-42-5-21                 111.99
16-42-5-22                 111.99
18-7-5-1                   153.003,
                           154.008
22-9-1-4 et. seq.          93.02
22-9.5-1 et. seq.          93.01
22-9.5-2-2                 93.02
22-9.5-2-3                 93.02
22-9.5-2-4                 93.02
22-9.5-2-8                 93.02
22-9.5-2-9                 93.02
22-9.5-2-10                93.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)             93.02
22-9.5-2-10(c)             93.02
22-9.5-2-11                93.02
22-9.5-2-13                93.02
22-9.5-3 et. seq.          93.10
22-9.5-3                   93.03
22-9.5-4-8                 93.11
22-9.5-5                   93.02
22-9.5-6                   93.02,
                           93.11
22-12-1                    150.01,
                           150.18
22-12-1-1                  154.050
22-15-3-1                  150.21
22-15-4                    150.19,
                           150.32
23-2-4                     111.55
27-1-15.6-6(d)          33.56
27-7-3-2                   33.56
27-7-3-6                   33.56
31-16                      31.35
31-31-8                    33.47
31-37-1-2                  31.35
Title 32                   32.26
32-25                      153.003,
                           154.008
33-39-8-5                  33.02
33-40-7                    31.35
33-40-7-5                  31.35
33-40-7-9                  31.35
35-33-11-3                 33.47
35-41-1-6                  31.35
35-41-1-18                 33.46
35-44-1-3                  31.03
35-46-3                    90.07
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-12                    31.03
36-2-2                     32.16
36-2-2-8                   32.26
36-2-2-8(b)                32.26
36-2-3-4                   30.01
36-2-4-3                   32.16
36-2-5-3(a)                32.21
36-2-7-10(f)               33.56
36-2-7-10-1                33.56
36-2-11-14                 33.50
36-2-13-16                 33.47
36-2-14-22.3               31.03
36-5-2-2                   10.15
36-7-1-6                   153.003,
                           154.008
                           152.01,
36-7-4                     153.003,
                           154.008,
                           154.055
36-7-4-102                 153.003,
                           154.008
36-7-4-610(a)              154.002
36-7-4-610(e)              154.002
36-7-4-613                 154.025
36-7-4-700                 153.003,
                           154.008
                           150.01,
36-7-4-801                 153.003,
                           154.008
36-7-4-802                 153.003
36-7-4-1500                154.055
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 150.47
36-7-9-3                   150.45
36-7-9-4                   150.46
36-7-9-7                   150.46,
                           150.52
36-7-9-14                  150.53
36-7-14                    31.38
36-7-14-16.1               31.38
36-7-25                    31.38
36-8-3-20                  31.37
36-8-10-5                  31.03
36-8-16                    33.54
36-10-3-3                  31.36
36-10-3-10                 31.36
36-10-3-11                 31.36
                           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
99-07    3-1-1999    T.S.O. II
99-08    9-20-1999   T.S.O. II
2006-03  3-27-2006   T.S.O. III
2007-03  4-23-2007   T.S.O. III
12-02    3-26-2012   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2012-03  6-25-2012   31.04
2012-04  6-25-2012   31.03
12-12    12-17-2012  31.07
2013-06  11-21-2013  31.20
2014-18  11-20-2014  31.03
2014-19  11-20-2014  31.09
2015-3   2-26-2015   T.S.O. V
2016-1   1-14-2016   34.03
2016-3   1-28-2016   T.S.O. VI
2018-01  1-25-2018   32.02
2018-14  11-8-2018   T.S.O. VI
                      
2021-06  6-8-2021    34.11
2021-09  6-10-2021   34.11
                    
 
REFERENCES TO COMMISSION ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
--            - -         31.07
--            - -         70.03
00-13         - -         70.01,
                          70.99
05-08         - -         Ch. 71, Sch. I
                          112.01 -
                          112.07,
                          112.20 -
99-04         - -         112.30,
                          112.45 -
                          112.50,
                          112.99
2             9-20-1982   31.37
4             12-6-1982   92.01,
                          92.99
                          51.01,
5             1-17-1983   51.02,
                          51.99
--            12-27-1985  34.02
--            3-17-1986   52.15 -
                          52.19
6             2-16-1988   92.01,
                          92.99
7             5-2-1988    Ch. 71, Sch. I
8             4-30-1990   Ch. 71, Sch. I
90-10         12-3-1990   150.03,
                          150.99
91-10         10-7-1991   30.03
JC-3-92       5-4-1992    Ch. 71, Sch. I
JC-4-92       5-4-1992    Ch. 71, Sch. I
JC-5-92       6-1-1992    31.06
1992-6        7-6-1992    150.04,
                          150.99
2-93          4-4-1993    T.S.O. I
3-93          6-21-1993   150.45 -
                          150.53
JC-4-93       8-2-1993    T.S.O. I
1-94          1-17-1994   T.S.O. I
3-94          3-21-1994   Ch. 71, Sch. I
4-94          4-18-1994   33.53
5-94          8-15-1994   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
95-2          3-30-1995   33.33
2-96          4-15-1996   70.02,
                          70.99
3-97          7-21-1997   Ch. 71, Sch. I
4-97          10-20-1997  30.02
5-97          10-20-1997  Ch. 71, Sch. I
7-97          12-15-1997  Ch. 71, Sch. I
3-98          6-1-1998    Ch. 71, Sch. I
98-4          7-6-1998    33.17
98-5          7-6-1998    33.16
98-8          11-16-1998  31.35
                          151.03,
99-02         1-19-1999   151.99,
                          Ch. 151, App. A
99-6          6-21-1999   52.16
99-12         10-4-1999   Ch. 71, Sch. I
99-13         10-4-1999   Ch. 71, Sch. I
99-14         10-4-1999   Ch. 71, Sch. I
99-18         12-6-1999   T.S.O. II
00-03         4-24-2000   T.S.O. I
00-05         4-24-2000   Ch. 71, Sch. II
00-10         5-12-2000   151.02,
                          151.99
00-06         5-22-2000   Ch. 71, Sch. I
00-07         5-22-2000   Ch. 71, Sch. I
00-08         5-22-2000   Ch. 71, Sch. I
00-09         5-22-2000   Ch. 71, Sch. I
00-11         7-10-2000   70.01,
                          Ch. 71, Sch. I
00-13         7-20-2000   T.S.O. II
00-15         9-25-2000   Ch. 71, Sch. I
01-01         1-28-2001   52.01
03-02         4-28-2001   33.15
01-03         9-24-2001   Ch. 71, Sch. I
01-05         10-22-2001  30.01
01-07         12-19-2001  Ch. 71, Sch. I
2002-01       3- -2002    33.51
02-02         6-10-2002   Ch. 71, Sch. I
02-03         11-25-2002  33.32
02-05         11-25-2002  33.49
02-04         12-9-2002   T.S.O. II
04-02         2-9-2003    Ch. 71, Sch. I
03-01         3-10-2003   Ch. 71, Sch. I
03-03         4-28-2003   T.S.O. II
03-04         4-28-2003   34.01,
                          34.99
03-05         6-9-2003    T.S.O. I
03-11         11-10-2003  Ch. 71, Sch. I
03-13         11-24-2003  130.02,
                          130.99
04-04         2-23-2004   Ch. 71, Sch. I
04-05         3-8-2004    Ch. 71, Sch. V
                          51.15 -
04-06         3-26-2004   51.19,
                          51.99
04-08         7-12-2004   Ch. 71, Sch. I
04-09         7-12-2004   Ch. 71, Sch. I
04-10         10-12-2004  Ch. 71, Sch. I
04-11         10-12-2004  Ch. 71, Sch. II
04-12         10-25-2004  Ch. 71, Sch. I
99-11 Revised 11-8-2004   Ch. 71, Sch. I
04-13         11-22-2004  33.01
05-01         - -2005     Ch. 71, Sch. II
--            2-28-2005   52.16
05-02         2-28-2005   T.S.O. IV
                          111.01 -
                          111.03,
                          111.15 -
                          111.22,
05-04         3-14-2005   111.35 -
                          111.43,
                          111.55 -
                          111.61,
                          111.99
05-05         3-14-2005   Ch. 71, Sch. I
05-04         5-9-2005    T.S.O. I
05-07         7-11-2005   Ch. 71, Sch. II
05-09         9-12-2005   Ch. 71, Sch. I
05-10         11-14-2005  T.S.O. I
                          152.01 -
                          152.13,
                          152.25 -
                          152.27,
--            - -2006     152.40 -
                          152.46,
                          152.60 -
                          152.66,
                          152.99
--            1-23-2006   31.05
06-01         2-13-2006   Ch. 71, Sch. I
06-02         3-13-2006   Ch. 71, Sch. I
                          153.001 -
                          153.004,
                          153.015 -
                          153.018,
                          153.030 -
                          153.032,
2             8-14-2006   153.045 -
                          153.047,
                          153.060 -
                          153.065,
                          153.080 -
                          153.086,
                          153.100 -
                          153.108
                          154.001 -
                          154.008,
                          154.020 -
                          154.038,
                          154.050 -
                          154.057,
                          154.070 -
                          154.072,
                          154.085 -
                          154.086,
--            9-1-2006    154.100 -
                          154.105,
                          154.120 -
                          154.126,
                          154.140 -
                          154.166,
                          154.180 -
                          154.196,
                          154.210 -
                          154.212,
                          154.999,
                          Ch. 154, App. A
06-05         10-17-2006  33.48,
                          33.99
07-02         5-14-2007   33.47
--            7-9-2007    154.051
07-04         7-23-2007   Ch. 71, Sch. I
07-05         7-23-2007   Ch. 71, Sch. I
07-06         7-23-2007   Ch. 71, Sch. I
08            10-9-2007   32.01,
                          32.99
07-09         10-22-2007  Ch. 71, Sch. II
08-02         4-14-2008   33.46
                          154.050 -
04, 2008      6-23-2008   154.054,
                          154.180
05, 2008      6-23-2008   154.210
06, 2008      6-23-2008   150.01,
                          150.99
07, 2008      6-23-2008   154.039
                          150.15 -
08, 2008      6-23-2008   150.34,
                          150.99
08-09         7-28-2008   Ch. 71, Sch. II
--            8-11-2008   150.01
08-10         11-24-2008  Ch. 71, Sch. I
08-11         11-24-2008  Ch. 71, Sch. I
2009-02       3-9-2009    T.S.O. I
2009-03       6-8-2009    151.01,
                          151.99
2009-04       6-8-2009    Ch. 71, Sch. II
00-06         6-8-2009    T.S.O. I
00-07         6-8-2009    T.S.O. I
--            7-13-2009   111.22
                          110.01 -
09-08         7-13-2009   110.09,
                          110.99
09-09         11-23-2009  T.S.O. I
2010-02       7-26-2010   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
10-03         10-11-2010  Ch. 71, Sch. I
10-04         10-11-2010  Ch. 71, Sch. I
10-05         10-11-2010  Ch. 71, Sch. I
10-06         10-11-2010  Ch. 71, Sch. I
2011-01       3-28-2011   Ch. 71, Sch. II
2011-02       3-28-2011   Ch. 71, Sch. II
2011-03       3-28-2011   Ch. 71, Sch. III
11-03         5-23-2011   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2011-04       8-22-2011   150.02
                          111.22,
2011-05       11-28-2011  111.35 -
                          111.43
12-01         3-13-2012   T.S.O. I
2012-11       12-10-2012  33.51
2013-01       5-9-2013    31.02
2013-02       5-9-2013    93.01 -
                          93.11
2013-04       6-27-2013   91.01,
                          91.99
2013-05       6-27-2013   Ch. 71, Sch. I
                          32.15 -
2013-06       6-27-2013   32.26,
                          32.99
2013-4        10-24-2013  Ch. 71, Sch. I
2014-07       2-27-2014   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2014-08       2-27-2014   Ch. 71, Sch. V
2014-09       2-27-2014   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2014-11       3-27-2014   Ch. 71, Sch. III,
                          Ch. 71, Sch. V
2014-12       3-27-2014   Ch. 71, Sch. V
2014-14       4-24-2014   T.S.O. II
2014-15       6-26-2014   33.45
2014-16       10-23-2014  31.01
24            11-13-2014  31.08
2014-17       11-13-2014  31.08
2014-23       12-11-2014  T.S.O. II
                          152.01 -
                          152.13,
                          152.25 -
                          152.27,
2015-1        2-12-2015   152.40 -
                          152.47,
                          152.60 -
                          152.66,
                          152.99
2015-2        2-12-2015   33.02
2015-10       12-17-2015  31.07
2017-1        1-12-2017   33.03
2017-2        7-27-2017   33.56
2017-3        8-10-2017   31.10
2017-5        12-14-2017  T.S.O. II
2017-6        12-28-2017  T.S.O. II
2017-7        12-28-2017  31.38
2018-06       9-27-2018   Ch. 71. Sch. I
2018-07       9-27-2018   Ch. 71. Sch. I
2018-08       9-27-2018   Ch. 71. Sch. I
2018-09       9-27-2018   Ch. 71. Sch. I
2018-10       9-27-2018   Ch. 71. Sch. I
2018-11       9-27-2018   Ch. 71. Sch. I
2018-13       11-8-2018   33.18
2018-15       12-13-2018  Ch. 71. Sch. I
2019-1        1-10-2019   T.S.O. II
2019-2        1-24-2019   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
2019-4        6-27-2019   33.57
2019-5        6-27-2019   33.50
2019-6        8-22-2019   Ch. 71, Sch. II
2019-7        8-22-2019   Ch. 71. Sch. I
2019-8        9-26-2019   34.05
2019-10       11-14-2019  33.01
2019-11       11-21-2019  34.04
2019-12       11-21-2019  31.39
                          90.01 -
2019-13       12-19-2019  90.12,
                          90.99,
                          T.S.O. I
2019-14       12-12-2019  T.S.O. II
2020-01       2-27-2020   92.02,
                          92.99
2020-02       3-22-2020   34.06
2020-03       4-2-2020    34.06
2020-04       4-16-2020   34.06
2020-05       5-1-2020    34.06
2020-06       5-8-2020    34.06
2020-07       6-25-2020   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2020-8        7-9-2020    92.02,
                          92.99
2020-12       9-24-2020   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2020-13       9-24-2020   34.07
2020-14       9-24-2020   34.08
2020-16       9-24-2020   34.09
2020-17       10-8-2020   92.03
2020-19       11-12-2020  34.10
2020-23       12-10-2020  Ch. 71, Sch. I
                          150.22,
                          153.003,
                          153.082,
2021-03A      3-18-2021   154.050,
                          154.051,
                          154.071,
                          154.072
2021-04       4-8-2021    T.S.O. I
2021-07       5-27-2021   T.S.O. I
2021-12       6-24-2021   T.S.O. I
2021-13       7-8-2021    T.S.O. I
2021-15       8-12-2021   T.S.O. I
2021-16       9-23-2021   T.S.O. I
2021-17       9-23-2021   Ch. 71, Sch. I
                         
 
REFERENCES TO COUNCIL ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
01-09      - -         33.46
4          5-21-1984   31.36
1991-1     11-19-1991  33.54
          4-18-1994   50.01 -
                       50.05
9-94       11-21-1994  33.34
95-2       3-30-1995   33.33
--         9-18-1995   33.33
97-1       4-21-1997   T.S.O. I
99-01      5-17-1999   T.S.O. I
JC-02      1-19-2000   T.S.O. I
00-03      4-17-2000   T.S.O. I
01-08      5-1-2001    33.52
01-11      10-15-2001  T.S.O. I
2002-02-04 5- -2002    33.50
03-02      6-10-2003   T.S.O. I
03-03      8-12-2003   T.S.O. I
03-04      10-20-2003  T.S.O. I
03-06      10-20-2003  T.S.O. I
03-07      10-20-2003  T.S.O. I
05-04      5-10-2005   T.S.O. I
06-01      6-13-2006   T.S.O. I
06-02      9-12-2006   T.S.O. I
06-03      10-17-2006  33.48,
                       33.99
08-02      4-8-2008    33.46
08-02      5-13-2008   T.S.O. I
2010-01    4-13-2010   33.54
2011-02    5-10-2011   T.S.O. I
12-01      3-13-2012   T.S.O. I
2012-09    5-15-2012   130.01
05, 2014   10-14-2014  33.31
6, 2014    10-21-2014  33.30
2015-10    12-17-2015  31.07
2015-11    12-17-2015  Ch. 71, Sch. I
2015-12    12-17-2015  Ch. 71, Sch. I
2016-1     4-28-2016   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2016-2     4-28-2016   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2016-3     5-12-2016   33.03
4-2016     6-23-2016   32.16
2016-5     8-11-2016   33.15
2017-1     3-9-2017    33.55
11         12-12-2017  33.04
                      
 
