JONESBORO, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.17   Laws governing the city
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Jonesboro
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. Jonesboro, Indiana
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk- Treasurer of the Common Council.
      COUNCIL. The Common Council.
      COUNTY. Grant County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
         (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1986 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1986 Code, §
     ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (B)   The liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties, or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize
highway rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the
acceptance, establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not
been enacted.
§ 10.17 LAWS GOVERNING THE CITY.
   The law governing the city is declared to be all law governing the State of
Indiana, and this code.
(1986 Code, § 1-1-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Law of the state, see I.C. 1-1-2-1
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY GOVERNMENT
      
31.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
32.   PERSONNEL
      
33.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
34.   SAFETY AND EMERGENCY PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 30: CITY GOVERNMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Home rule
   
30.02   City seal
   
30.03   Legal holidays
   
30.04   Jonesboro Day
   
30.05   Minimum bond amounts
   
30.06   Social media policy
   
30.07   Public records; body-camera footage
   
30.08   Internal control policy and standards
   
30.09   Organizational chart of operations
Common Council
   
30.20   Common Council meetings
   
30.21   Attendance expectations of members
   
30.22   Election districts and elections
City Organizations
   
30.35   Redevelopment Commission
   
30.36   Police Reserves provisions
   
30.37   Participation in Police and Firefighters Pension and Disability Fund
   
30.38   Board of Public Works and Safety
   
30.39   Park Committee
   
30.40   Internal Control Oversight Committee
   
30.41   Volunteer Code Enforcement Department
Cross-reference:
   County Area Plan Commission, see §
150.03
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see §
96.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 HOME RULE.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the city home rule ordinance pursuant to I.C.
36-1-3-1 et seq.
   (B)   The city may exercise any power or perform any function necessary to
the public interest in the conduct of its internal affairs, which is not
prohibited by the State Constitution or the United States Constitution, or
denied or preempted by any other law or is not vested by any other law in any
other city, county, or state entity, special purpose district, or municipal or
school corporation.
   (C)   The city shall support all actions, projects, and programs in the
public interest of its citizens, if those actions, projects, and programs are
authorized under home rule powers, or the performance of those functions are
reasonable and practical under the circumstances.
   (D)   The Common Council may budget and appropriate funds to provide for
city membership and the membership of city elected and appointed officials and
members of its boards, councils, departments, or agencies in local, regional,
state, and national associations of a civic, educational, or governmental
nature, which have as their purpose the betterment and improvement of city
operations.
   (E)   The Common Council may budget and appropriate funds to pay the
expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and
functions of organizations to which the city belongs.
(1986 Code, § 36-1-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Application of home rule chapter, see I.C. 36-1-3-1
§ 30.02 CITY SEAL.
   (A)   The Common Council adopts a common seal with the following design:
   (B)   The word “SEAL” centered, with a fleur-de-lis centered above and below
that word, with a star on each side of each fleur-de-lis; the word
“CORPORATION” centered in an arc above the word “SEAL” and the aforesaid fleur-
de-lis and stars; the entirety surrounded by a beaded ring, with the words
“CITY OF JONESBORO” and “JONESBORO, IND” surrounding the upper and lower
portions of the ring, respectively; the phrases separated by two small squares,
and the entire design surrounded by a beaded ring.
(1986 Code, § 36-5-2-9) (Ord. 1, passed 12-31-1866; Order of 11-12-1968)
Statutory reference:
   City seal, see I.C. 36-5-2-9
§ 30.03 LEGAL HOLIDAYS.
   The designation of any legal or special holiday by the Common Council for
city employees shall not affect any action taken by the Common Council while in
regular or special session. Any action taken by any city officer or employee on
any holiday shall be valid for all purposes.
(1986 Code, § 1-1-9-1)
Statutory reference:
   Legal holidays, see I.C. 1-1-9-1
§ 30.04 JONESBORO DAY.
   The third day of December is designated as Jonesboro Day.
(1986 Code, § 1-1-10-1)
Statutory reference:
   Indiana Day, see I.C. 1-1-10-1
§ 30.05 MINIMUM BOND AMOUNTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of protection, the minimum bond amount shall be
obtained for the following city employees, and/or those made a temporary or
part-time employee, whose office duties include: receiving, processing,
depositing, disbursing, or having access to funds shall be    bonded for the
amounts stated below. Each amount shall reflect per $1,000,000 of receipts.
      (1)   Bond amount of $30,000:
         (a)   Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   Billing Clerk; and
         (c)   Others that may be hired as temporary or part-time as deemed
necessary by the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Bond amount of $10,000:
         (a)   Redevelopment Commissioners; and
         (b)   Mayor.
      (3)   Bond amount of $5,000:
         (a)   Fire Department Chief and Secretary/Treasurer; and
         (b)   Park Board President/Secretary/ Treasurer.
      (4)   Bond amount of $5,000 blanket bond:
         (a)   Common Council;
         (b)   Board of Public Works; and
         (c)   Police Department.
      (5)   Others may be required by law or required by the Common Council.
   (B)   All bonds shall commence on the first day of the calendar year and/or
if a bond is a longer term, it must be the set amount for each year of the term
of the bond. Also, any position covered by the ordinance for which a bond is
required shall be bonded on the first day of employment and be good for a one-
year term.
   (C)   All bonds must be filed with the County Recorder, City Attorney, and
City Clerk-Treasurer; who is responsible for creating, recording, and
maintaining said files. Also, the Clerk-Treasurer shall assure all bonds are
obtained in accordance with this section and I.C. 5-4-1-18.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall submit, as the city fiscal officer, copies
of all bonds to the State Board of Accounts electronically via Gateway with the
annual financial report.
   (E)   All bonds shall be made payable to the state.
(Ord. 8-2015, passed 12-22-2015)
§ 30.06 SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city that no social media platform purported to be
official representation of the city, including, but not limited to, any
Facebook page, or similar platform, shall be an official and an authorized
representation of the city unless it is established and administered by the
City Clerk- Treasurer, with the express written consent of the Common Council
and the Mayor. No other individual, and no other employee or volunteer shall be
so authorized. The city disclaims any right, duty, responsibility, or liability
for any social media platforms or pages established and/or administered by
anyone other than the City Clerk-Treasurer, as set out in this section. This
disclaimer also applies to any platform or page established by volunteers or
employees of the city as private citizens, and to non-volunteers and non-
employees including private citizens, which bear names similar to “City of
Jonesboro, Indiana,” or for any identically named platform or page utilizing
said name or similar name.
(Ord. 15-2023, passed 11-14-2023)
§ 30.07 PUBLIC RECORDS; BODY-CAMERA FOOTAGE.
   (A)   Body-worn camera footage may be viewed upon request in accordance with
the State Access to Public Records Act (“APRA”) and subject to the provisions
of this section.
   (B)   Body-worn videos that are part of an ongoing investigation or which
contain unredacted private information, such as interiors of private homes,
medical information, juveniles, witnesses, or victims, shall be subject to
disclosure only at the discretion of the city and its Police Department.
   (C)   Requests for body-worn camera footage must be in writing and must be
reasonably particular in order to permit the identification of the footage to
be disclosed, including:
      (1)   The date of the incident;
      (2)   The approximate time of the incident; and
      (3)   The location of the incident and the names of one person involved
who is not a law enforcement officer.
   (D)   (1)   The following fee schedule shall apply for videos to be
disclosed:
 
Video Length/Service       Fee
Less than 5 minutes        No charge
5 to 30 minutes            $50
30 to 60 minutes           $100
Greater than 60 minutes    $150
Processing of all requests $4
 
      (2)   In the event that the city shall elect to provide copies of
footage, the requestor shall also be responsible for paying for the cost of the
media upon which the footage shall be copied, such as disks or flash drives.
   (E)   The city shall require a minimum of 15 business days after the receipt
of a written request for footage to make said footage available.
(Ord. 8 2022, passed 11-22-2022)
§ 30.08 INTERNAL CONTROL POLICY AND STANDARDS.
   It is the city’s policy to communicate the Common Council’s internal control
objectives to all employees and elected officials of the city and to firmly
commit the city to the 17 key principles of internal controls as established by
the State Board of Accounts.
   (A)   Control environment.
      (1)   First principle. The oversight body and management demonstrate a
commitment to integrity and ethical values.
         (a)   The city has the responsibility to establish and maintain an
adequate system of internal control and to furnish to the Common Council,
various boards and commissions, governmental agencies, creditors, and others
reliable financial information on a timely basis. An adequate system of
internal control is necessary for the city to discharge these responsibilities.
         (b)   Controls help ensure that assets are not exposed to unauthorized
access and use, transactions are properly recorded in the financial records,
and the resultant financial information is reliable. External organizations and
stakeholders of the city rely on financial information to make decisions toward
appropriations, loans and other debt, grants, and other contractual
relationships. City resources are dependent upon the system of internal
control. Auditors are required annually to report upon the adequacy of the
city’s systems for control over financial reporting and compliance per I.C. 5-
11-1-27(e). The safeguarding of city assets and the reliability which the city
and others can place upon its financial records is dependent upon the
effectiveness of the internal control process.
         (c)   As the fiscal body, Common Council expects the city
administration to effect an internal control environment with policies and
procedures, and/or recommend ordinances when necessary to provide reasonable
assurance that practices cause effective and efficient operations, reliable
financial reporting, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
         (d)   The system of internal control is meant to keep the city on
course toward its mission and to minimize surprises. The system promotes
efficiency, minimizes risks of asset loss, helps ensure the reliability of
financial information, and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and
regulations.
         (e)   Internal control is a process; a means to an end, and not an end
unto itself. The control environment is the foundation upon which all
components of internal control are based. It sets the tone for city operations.
Internal control is about people, operations, communications, and the work
environment. It is not about policies and forms though it takes shape through
the implementation of relevant policies, procedures, and practices. Internal
control can provide reasonable assurance, but no system of control can provide
absolute assurance to the Common Council and other users of financial
information.
         (f)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be charged with:
            1.   Conveying periodic messages of the city’s internal control
philosophy and expectations to all employees;
            2.   Evaluating the City’s internal control system for weaknesses
on a periodic (but no less frequently than annual) basis, providing solutions
to any discovered weaknesses, and inform employees of necessary changes in
procedures;
            3.   Working with the Mayor and department heads to establish a
confidential reporting system for individuals to report suspected fraud and
abuse of internal control policies; and
            4.   Working with the Mayor and department heads to institute
procedures to address violations of policies and consequences for violations.
      (2)   Second principle. The oversight body oversees the entity’s internal
control system. As the fiscal body for the city, the Common Council is
responsible for setting the institutional expectations for internal control,
ensuring management is aware of those expectations, requiring the upward
communications channels are open through all levels of management, and
evaluating management’s effectiveness toward monitoring the control environment
and implementing sound control policies and procedures. The city’s Clerk-
Treasurer and Mayor will be the Common Council’s chief agents in implementing
and managing the internal control policies and procedures.
      (3)   Third principle. Management shall establish an organizational
structure and assigns.
         (a)   Individuals with delegated approval authority (e.g. elected
officials and department heads) are responsible for establishing, maintaining,
and supporting a system of internal controls within their areas of
responsibility and for creating the control environment that encourages
compliance with city policies and procedures.
         (b)   Adequate supervision is necessary to monitor that internal
controls are operating as intended, and to help ensure the reliability of
accounting and operational controls by pointing out errors, omissions,
exceptions, and inconsistencies in procedures.
         (c)   Staff in leadership roles are responsible for the application of
this policy and the design, development, implementation, and maintenance of
systems of internal controls focusing on the effectiveness of operations and
the safeguarding of assets within their respective areas of responsibility. All
levels of management and supervision are responsible for strengthening internal
controls when weaknesses are detected.
         (d)   The Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer, and department heads should
periodically review departmental procedures to ensure that the general
principles of internal control are being followed.
         (e)   The Clerk-Treasurer has the primary responsibility for internal
control over financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws, rules,
and regulations. The Clerk-Treasurer is the city’s chief source for information
and assistance to Mayor and department heads on this topic and will make
resources available to assist in administering this policy.
         (f)   The Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer, and Board of Public Works and Safety
are responsible for internal controls over employee recruitment, hiring,
separation, promotion, job classification, employee rights, and salary
administration.
         (g)   The Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer, and Corporation Counsel are the city
sources for information and assistance on this topic and will make resources
available to assist in administering this policy.
         (h)   All levels of internal control are subject to examination by
external auditors who are required to report on the adequacy of internal
controls over finance and compliance. The Mayor and department heads are
responsible for prompt corrective action on all internal control findings and
recommendations made by internal and external auditors. The audit process is
completed only after the Mayor and department heads receive the audit results
and take action to correct internal control weaknesses, improve systems, or
demonstrate that management action is not warranted. The Mayor and department
heads have the responsibility to ensure that those who report to them have
adequate knowledge, skills, and abilities to function within, and contribute
to, an effective internal control environment. This includes providing access
to appropriate training on topics relevant to their job responsibilities.
      (4)   Fourth principle. Management demonstrates a commitment to recruit,
develop, and retain competent individuals. The City Employee Handbook provides
a roadmap for recruiting and maintaining quality employees. Prior to
employment, individuals may be subject to pre-employment background screening
and/or a credit history check. Employed city employees are entitled to a
benefits package including health and disability insurance and certain other
post-employment benefits. The city will continue to assess the best recruitment
pools and tools for the different skill sets of skills necessary to adequately
implement and maintain quality internal controls. Job descriptions will be
updated where necessary to reflect internal control responsibilities and
duties. Employees will be regularly trained in internal control methods and all
training will be documented in employees’ personnel files. Employees will be
regularly evaluated by their supervisors on internal control duties and receive
feedback on possible improvements.
      (5)   Fifth principle. Management evaluates performance and holds
individuals accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
Individuals are held accountable for their internal control responsibilities
through a recognized structure which includes relevant job descriptions,
operating procedures, periodic reviews, regular feedback, and a progressive
disciplinary policy. Additionally, city administration seeks to address issues
in specific departments and positions through regular one-on-ones with
department heads.
   (B)   Risk assessment.
      (1)   Sixth principle.
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and risk tolerances. Through the creation of standard
operating procedures and accurate organizational reporting charts management
conveys and identifies objectives, missions, policies, and risk tolerances to
employees. The Finance Department will lead a risk analysis of three major
areas:
            1.   The effectiveness and efficiency of operations;
            2.   The reliability of reporting for internal and external use;
and
            3.   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
         (b)   For each category, the Clerk-Treasurer will define objectives
with the Mayor in specific measurable terms in order to enable the design of
internal control for related risk, increase understanding at all levels, assess
performance, identify what is to be achieved, who is to achieve it, how it will
be achieved, when it will be achieved and incorporate external requirements.
      (2)   Seventh principle. Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to
risks related to achieving the defined objectives.
         (a)   The Clerk-Treasurer will identify, analyze, and respond to the
risks identified in division (B)(1) above by determining:
            1.   How likely it is the risk occurs;
            2.   How it will impact the objective;
            3.   If the risk is based on complex or unusual transactions; and
            4.   If the risk is based on fraud.
         (b)   Once each risk has been identified and analyzed, the Clerk-
Treasurer will work with the Mayor and department heads to determine how to
respond to each risk with a specific solution and action.
      (3)   Eighth principle. Management considers the potential for fraud when
identifying, analyzing, and responding to risks. Management is committed to
fraud prevention by utilizing a “trust, but verify” approach. The potential for
fraud, misappropriation, and outright theft are contemplated as controls are
designed for various city divisions. Fraud responses will include statutorily
required responses to fraud, including, but not limited to I.C. 5-11-1-27(l)
relating to the report of misappropriation of funds to State Board of Accounts
and Prosecuting Attorney and I.C. 5-11-1-27(j) relating to the report of
material variances, losses, shortages or thefts to the State Board of Accounts.
The city shall utilize a materiality threshold of $50.
      (4)   Ninth principle. Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to
significant changes that could impact the internal control system. The Clerk-
Treasurer, in coordination with Mayor and department heads, will regularly
evaluate and adjust internal control policies in order to accommodate for the
impact of future changes, including, but not limited to, personnel changes,
newly elected officials, new programs, new technology, new laws and
regulations, and financial fluctuations.
   (C)   Control activities.
      (1)   Tenth principle. Management designs control activities to achieve
objectives and respond to risks. The Clerk-Treasurer will establish and
maintain a system of internal controls that satisfies the city’s objectives in
the following categories:
         (a)   Risks are identified and effectively managed;
         (b)   Safeguarding of city assets;
         (c)   Reliability and integrity of financial information;
         (d)   Compliance with city policy, plans, procedures, laws, and
regulations;
         (e)   Economical and efficient use of city resources; and
         (f)   Meeting established objectives and goals for city operations and
programs.
            1.   General internal control principles for departments are:
               a.   Separation of duties, being:
                  i.   Duties are separated so that one person’s work routinely
serves as a check on another’s work; and
                  ii.   No one person has complete control over more than one
key function or activity (e.g., authorizing, approving, certifying, disbursing,
receiving, reconciling, or the like).
               b.   Authorization and approval:
                  i.   Proposed transactions are authorized when proper and
consistent with city policy and the department’s plans; and
                  ii.   Transactions are approved by the person who has
delegated approval authority, which is usually delegated on the basis of
special competency or knowledge.
               c.   Custodial and security arrangements:
                  i.   Responsibility for physical security/custody of city
assets is separated from record keeping/accounting for those assets; and
                  ii.   Unauthorized access to city assets and institutional
data is prevented.
               d.   Timely and accurate review and reconciliation:
                  i.    Departmental accounting records and documents are
examined by employees who have sufficient understanding of the city accounting
and financial systems to verify that recorded transactions actually took place
and were made in accordance with city policies, ordinances, and procedures; and
                  ii.    Departmental accounting records and documentation are
compared with city accounting system reports and financial statements to verify
their reasonableness, accuracy, and completeness.
               e.   The general internal control principles should be applied
to all departmental operations, especially accounting records and reports,
payroll, purchasing/receiving/disbursement approval, equipment and supply
inventories, cash receipts, petty cash and change funds, billing and accounts
receivable.
            2.   All city systems, processes, operations, functions, and
activities are subject to evaluations of internal control systems. The results
of these evaluations provide information regarding the city’s overall system of
control.
            3.   Information must be timely and communicated in a manner that
enables people to carry out their responsibilities.
               a.   All covered employees must be trained on Internal Controls
according to I.C. 5-11-1-27(g). All personnel must receive a clear message from
the city’s administration that control responsibilities are to be taken
seriously. Failure to comply with established practices will subject
individuals to the terms of disciplinary action or dismissal.
               b.   Employees must understand their own roles in the internal
control system, as well as how individual activities relate to the work of
others. To this end, whenever a new budgetary unit, financial activity, and the
like is set up, the Controller will provide notification to the appropriate
parties of the responsibilities incumbent on them for good business practices
and sound financial management, including reference to the principles within
this policy.
               c.   Employees must have a means of communicating significant
information to the city’s administration.
               d.   The city must communicate effectively with external
parties, such as auditors, creditors, contractors, suppliers, regulators, and
other stakeholders.
            4.   a.   Internal control is meant to keep the city focused on
achieving its mission while avoiding surprises. There is a balance between
effective controls and mission accomplishment. Costs associated with internal
controls should not exceed their benefit, nor should controls be allowed to
stifle mission effectiveness and timely action.
               b.   All levels of management must assess the costs, benefits,
and risks when designing controls to develop a positive control environment and
compensate for the risks of non-compliance, loss of assets, or unreliable
reporting while accomplishing the city mission.
      (2)   Specific principles. The following specific internal control
policies are adopted for use by city departments:
         (a)   Payroll activities:
            1.   Salaries and wage rates are verified by the Board of Public
Works and Safety/Common Council;
            2.   The responsibilities for hiring, terminating, and approving
promotions are segregated from those preparing payroll transactions or
inputting data;
            3.   The responsibilities for approving time sheets are segregated
from those for preparing payroll transactions or inputting data;
            4.   Payroll adjustment reports are submitted by someone outside of
the payroll process;
            5.   Employees’ time and attendance records are approved by their
supervisors;
            6.   Corrections to recorded time and attendance records are
approved by the employee and employee’s supervisor;
            7.   Procedures are in place to ensure that changes in employment
status are promptly reported to the payroll processing unit;
            8.   Payroll disbursements are reviewed and approved by an
authorized individual prior to payment;
            9.   Access to payroll applications is appropriately controlled by
user logins and passwords;
            10.   Changes to a payroll disbursement are approved by an
individual other than the ones authorized to process the changes;
            11.   Payroll checks are accounted for in numerical order and
reconciled to the register;
            12.   Access to the signature stamp used to sign payroll checks is
adequately controlled;
            13.   Unclaimed payroll checks are returned to Finance Department
via the Department Head; and
            14.   Employees are cross-trained on the payroll process; those
assigned to payroll take regular vacations.
         (b)   Disbursement activities:
            1.   The responsibility for approving claims is segregated from
those preparing the claims;
            2.   Checks are written by an individual other than the one
approving the claim;
            3.   Checks are signed by an individual other than the one
preparing them;
            4.   Claims for payment are reviewed and approved by the governing
body prior to payment;
            5.   A reconcilement is completed between the claims for payment
approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety and the actual disbursements
posted to the ledger;
            6.   The responsibility for acknowledging the receipt of goods or
services is segregated from those preparing claims and writing checks;
            7.   Vendor checks are accounted for in numerical order and
reconciled to the disbursement ledger;
            8.   Invoices or other receipts are attached to each claim to
support the disbursement;
            9.   A review is completed by an individual outside the
disbursement process in which the claim amount is compared to the supporting
documentation attached to the claim and the amount of the check; and
            10.   Access to disbursement applications is appropriately
controlled by user logins and passwords.
         (c)   Receipting activities:
            1.   The responsibility for collecting money and issuing receipts
is segregated from those preparing the bank deposit;
            2.   The responsibility for making bank deposits is segregated from
those preparing the monthly bank reconcilement;
            3.   Pre-numbered receipts are issued for all money collected and
the receipt is retained with supporting documentation and reviewed by the Board
of Public Works and Safety and/or Common Council;
            4.   Receipts are reconciled to the cash receipts ledger by an
individual other than the one collecting money and issuing receipts;
            5.   Posting of receipts to the ledger is completed by an
individual other than the one who collects money and makes the deposit;
            6.   Receipts indicate the type of payment received (cash, check,
and the like) and this is reconciled to the make-up of the bank deposit;
            7.   Accounts receivable records are maintained by an individual
other than the one(s) involved in the billing process;
            8.   The billing process is completed by an individual other than
the one who collects cash payments from customers; and
            9.   Adjustments to customer accounts above our managerial
threshold are approved by the governing body only after review.
         (d)   Cash activities:
            1.   A reconcilement between the recorded cash balance and the bank
balance is completed monthly by an individual separate from the receipting and
disbursing processes;
            2.   A reconcilement between the receipts ledger and the credits to
the bank account is completed periodically by an individual separate of the
receipting process;
            3.   A reconcilement between the disbursement ledger and the debits
to the bank account is completed periodically by an individual separate of the
disbursement process;
            4.   The monthly reconcilement between the cash balance and the
bank balance is thoroughly reviewed and approved by the governing body; and
            5.   Disbursements from and reimbursements to petty cash funds are
periodically reviewed by an individual other than the one responsible for
maintaining the petty cash funds.
         (e)   Credit cards transactions:
            1.   A designated official or employee oversees the issuance and
use of the credit cards;
            2.   An ordinance or resolution specifically states the purposes
for which the credit card may be used from the Common Council and/or Board of
Public Works and Safety; and
            3.   A designated person separate from disbursement process reviews
transactions listed on the credit card statements for sufficient documentation
and inclusion in claim to the Board of Public Works and Safety or Common
Council.
      (3)   Eleventh principle.
         (a)   Management designs the political subdivision’s information
system and related control activities to achieve objectives and respond to
risks.
         (b)   The Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer, and department heads will work with
the Information Technology Department to ensure that information technology is
used as an integral part of the internal control system. This may include, but
not be limited to:
            1.   Setting permission such that only certain users may perform
certain tasks;
            2.   Using technology to accomplish segregation of duties by
forcing duties to be completed by different users;
            3.   Automating certain processes and calculations;
            4.   Limiting the authority to access different components of
various software to employees with duties specifically related to that
component;
            5.   Prohibiting user I.D. and password sharing among employees;
            6.   Restricting the authority to correct or make adjustments to
records to key employees; and
            7.   Requiring the use of prescribed forms or the approval of
alternative forms.
      (4)   Twelfth principle. Management implements control activities through
policies. The city has an employee handbook that is regularly updated to
communicate policies to employees. Additionally, the Clerk-Treasurer and the
Mayor regularly works with departments and employees who handle financial
transactions to recommend and ensure best practices. All procedures are in
writing and communicated frequently to all relevant employees. Policies are
available both electronically and in hard copy form.
   (D)   Information and communication.
      (1)   Thirteenth principle.
         (a)   City administration uses quality information to achieve the
political subdivision’s objectives. The city strives to lead in the areas of
financial transparency and accountability. By adopting standards and investing
in systems that exceed state mandated minimums, city management provides
employees and stakeholders with high quality information and informatics
systems.
         (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer and attorney attend training and industry
seminars to stay abreast of changes and developments in requirements and
communicate that information effectively to impacted employees.
      (2)   Fourteenth principle. Management internally communicates the
necessary quality information to achieve the political subdivision’s
objectives. Internal communications on internal controls are communicated
through adoption of formal policies by relevant boards and commissions and/or
the legislative body or documented through memos from the finance, legal, or
relevant department head. Internal memos and reports are maintained to document
communication.
      (3)   Fifteenth principle.
         (a)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the entity’s objectives. Communications with the State
Board of Accounts, other state agencies, grantor agencies, and regulatory
agencies are documented by email, memos, letters, and other forms of written
correspondence.
         (b)   Logs are kept for information provided verbally. All documents
are maintained in accordance with the city and state’s record retention
policies. Reports and policies are cross checked for accuracy, relevancy, and
timeliness of information.
   (E)   Monitoring activities.
      (1)   Sixteenth principle.
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
         (b)   City Administration monitors and evaluates compliance with
internal control policies via multiple vectors. Separation of duties,
redundancy polices, layered approval systems, monthly reports, and physical
controls such as video monitoring allow management to both review and evaluate
control systems. The Clerk-Treasurer shall implement a system of monitoring
that includes:
            1.   Periodic checks to determine if controls are in place and
working effectively;
            2.   Reviewing control activities to determine if the actual
activities are in compliance with established procedures;
            3.   Documenting deficiencies in the internal control processes and
remediating them quickly; and
            4.   Monitoring activities will be documented by signatures,
initials, or other appropriate methods.
      (2)   Seventeenth principle.
         (a)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis. Breaches of internal controls are subject to significant
levels of internal scrutiny.
         (b)   If informed of a material breach of internal controls, the
Clerk-Treasurer and Mayor’s office actively investigate and address said breach
and adjust policies and procedures to prevent such breaches in the future.
         (c)   Once breaches are identified and investigated, a formal or
informal corrective action plan will be developed.
   (F)   Adopting standards. The Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions, as they now exist and may be amended from time to time
in the future, developed and promulgated by the State Board of Accounts (SBOA)
are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same as if set
forth in full herein.
(Res. 3 2016, passed 5-24-2016; Ord. 18-2016, passed 12-27-2016)
§ 30.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF OPERATIONS.
   The chart below, which shall continue onto the next page, shall serve as a
guide in the process of development of job descriptions and the objectives of
the city’s effectiveness in overall operations.
(Ord. 12 2019, passed 11-12-2019)
COMMON COUNCIL
§ 30.20 COMMON COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The Common Council shall conduct its regular meetings on the second and
fourth Tuesday of each month at 7:00 p.m.
(1986 Code, § 36-5-2-9) (Ord. 1, passed 12-31-1866; Order of 11-12-1968)
Statutory reference:
   Local rules, see I.C. 36-5-2-9
§ 30.21 ATTENDANCE EXPECTATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this section to
ensure representation of the people of the city.
   (B)   Restriction.
      (1)   Members of the Common Council are required to attend a minimum of
ten meetings in a six-month period beginning January 1 and ending June 30, and
beginning July 1 and ending December 31, of each year they serve, or be subject
to dismissal, pending a vote of the Council.
      (2)   Members of the Common Council are subject to dismissal, after being
absent for four consecutive meetings, pending a vote of the Council.
   (C)   Penalties for violation.
      (1)   Violation of division (B)(1) above. Attendance must be reviewed for
each of the Council members. Any member who does not attend at least ten
meetings during the six-month period must endure a vote by the Council to
retain his or her seat. A two-thirds vote among those in attendance is
necessary to expel a member of the Council.
      (2)   Violation of division (B)(2) above. On the date of the fourth
consecutive absence of any Council member, the Council has the option to vote
on the retention of the member. A two-thirds vote among those in attendance is
required to expel a member of the Council.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Exceptions for both types of violation can be made at the
discretion of the Council.
      (2)   Common reasons for an exception may be: medically related absences;
Council members’ health condition; absences related to taking care of a loved
one who has been diagnosed with a serious health condition; and/or absences
related to settling the estate of a family member who has passed away and can
be documented.
   (E)   Vacancies. Vacancies are to be filled in the same manner, as they
would be if a member of the Common Council were to resign.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-27-2006)
§ 30.22 ELECTION DISTRICTS AND ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The city shall be divided into three Common Council districts as
follows.
      (1)   (a)   District One shall be the district designated in gray on the
map attached to Ord. No. 9-2002, and made a part hereof. If the description set
forth in division (A)(1)(b) below, at this time or at any time in the future,
should not be consistent with the map attached to Ord. No. 9-2002, the map
shall be controlling.
         (b)   The borders of District One shall be as follows: From the corner
of State Road 22 and 4 Street, north along the northern boundary of the city,
south along the eastern boundary of the city to the area designated by the
green line on the map north of Pearl Street, west along this area to Lincoln
and Water Streets, south on Lincoln and Water Streets to 5th Street, west on
5th Street to Main Street, south on Main Street to 9th Street, west on 9th
Street to Back Creek, north on Back Creek to 6th Street, west on 6th Street to
4th Street, north on 4th Street to the corner of State Road 22 and 4th Street.
This also includes the two areas west of 4th Street designated in gray on the
map.
      (2)   (a)   District Two shall be the district designated in blue on the
map attached to Ord. No. 9-2002 and made a part hereof. If the description set
forth in division (A)(2)(b) below, at this time or at any time in the future,
should not be consistent with the map attached to Ord. No. 9-2002, the map
shall be controlling.
         (b)   The borders of District Two shall be as follows: From the corner
of 6th Street and the western border of the city, east on 6th Street to Back
Creek, south on Back Creek to 9th Street, east on 9th Street to Main Street,
south on Main Street to the southern border of the city, west along the
southern border of the city to Wichita Street, north on Wichita Street to the
intersection of 6th Street and the western border of the city.
      (3)   (a)   District Three shall be the district designated in yellow on
the map attached to Ord. No. 9-2002 and made a part hereof. If the description
set forth in division (A)(3)(b) below, at this time or at any time in the
future, should not be consistent with the map attached to Ord. No. 9-2002, the
map shall be controlling.
         (b)   The borders of District Three are as follows: From the corner of
Lincoln and Water Streets and the area designated by the green line north of
Pearl Street, to the eastern border of the city, along the eastern border of
the city to the southern border of the city, along the southern border of the
city to Main Street, north on Main Street to 5th Street, east on 5th Street to
Water and Lincoln Streets, north on Water and Lincoln Streets to the corner of
Water and Lincoln Streets and the area designated by the green line north of
Pearl Street.
   (B)   The legislative body of the city consists of five Common Council
members. The member representing District One shall reside in District One, the
member representing District Two shall reside in District Two, the member
representing District Three shall reside in District Three. The two at large
members shall reside in the city, in any district.
   (C)   Each voter in the city shall vote for one candidate from the district
in which the voter resides and two at large candidates.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 10-8-2002)
CITY ORGANIZATIONS
§ 30.35 REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   A new department to be known and designated as the Redevelopment
Commission is hereby created and established with full power and authority to
act as provided pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14.
   (B)   The Mayor and the Common Council are hereby authorized and empowered
to create by appointment five commissioners for the Redevelopment Commission as
prescribed in I.C. 36-7-14-6.1 for the purpose of such commissioners being
empowered to do all things necessary for the promotion of the business and
activities of said Redevelopment Commission. In addition, the Mayor shall
appoint an advisory nonvoting member. Such member shall be a current Board
Member of the Mississinewa Community School Corporation as provided in I.C. 36-
7-14-6.1.
   (C)   (1)   Meetings. Meetings shall be held quarterly after the Common
Council meeting (first month of the quarter).
      (2)   Duties. The duties of the Redevelopment Commission are established
by the Indiana General Assembly and detailed in the Indiana Code.
(Ord. 3-2015, passed 6-9-2015; Ord. 6-2023, passed 7-25-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-14-11 et seq.
§ 30.36 POLICE RESERVES PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Common Council, recognizing the need to provide support to the
Police Department in the enforcement and in the performance of its police
powers for the protection of the citizens of the city, establishes the City
Police Reserves.
   (B)   The City Police Reserves shall consist of not more than 20 reserve
police officers. The reserve police officers shall be appointed by Board of
Public Works and Safety. The reserve police officers may not be regular members
of the City Police Department. The reserve police shall have the same police
powers as regular members of the City Police Department, except as limited by
rules established by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   The reserve officers shall be entitled to the following benefits:
      (1)   Receive compensation loss from other regular employment because of
court appearances on behalf of the city; and
      (2)   Receive liability insurance coverage as extended to the Police
Department.
   (D)   Reserve police officers shall not be appointed until they have
completed the training and the probationary period as specified by the rules
established by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 9-2006, passed 7-25-2006)
§ 30.37 PARTICIPATION IN POLICE AND FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION AND DISABILITY FUND.
   (A)   The city elects to become a participating unit in the 1977 Police and
Firefighters’ Pension and Disability Fund, as established by Pub. L. No. 9,
(Special Sessions, 1977), and all Acts amendatory thereof and supplemental
thereto.
   (B)   The city agrees to make the required contributions to the 1977 Police
and Firefighters’ Pension and Disability Fund.
   (C)   The following are declared to be covered by the 1977 Fund: All full-
time police officers presently employed by the city who have met the minimum
medical standards of the 1977 Fund and all subsequent employees hired as full-
time police officers for the Police Department.
   (D)   This section establishes a retirement fund for the employees declared
in division (C) above and supersedes any other resolution for a retirement
system now in effect for said employees.
   (E)   The active date of participating membership of the city shall begin on
July 1, 2004.
(Res. 6-2003, passed 9-23-2003)
§ 30.38 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall hire and/or appoint all
city employees. The number being hired or appointed shall be controlled by
ordinance, including utilities and Police and Fire Departments.
   (B)   Duties shall include: Public works as outlined in I.C. 36-1-12 as
written and/or amended at times.
      (2)   PUBLIC WORKS means the construction, reconstruction, alteration, or
renovation of a public building, airport facility, or other structure that is
paid for out of a public fund or out of a special assessment. The term includes
the construction, alteration, or repair of a highway, street, alley, sewer,
drain, or other improvement that is paid for out of a public fund or out of a
special assessment. The term also includes any public work leased by a
political subdivision under a lease containing an option to purchase, including
water utilities and/or stormwater and wastewater. The Public Works Projects
Board may purchase or lease materials as provided in I.C. 5-22 as performed any
public works by means of its own work force, without awarding a contract when
estimated cost to be less than $250,000. Employees need to be capable of
performing the job as stated in I.C. 36-1-12-3.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall handle the appointments or
other actions and activities of police and/or volunteer firemen in accordance
to Indiana Code and as may be recommended by chiefs in most situations; and
shall work to ensure the equipment meets requirements and standards working
with the Clerk-Treasurer and/or City Council.
(Ord. 19-2023, passed 12-27-2023)
§ 30.39 PARK COMMITTEE.
   The Common Council hereby adopts an ordinance creating a “Park Committee.”
   (A)   (1)   The Park Committee shall have five members appointed annually by
the Mayor. The Common Council may make suggestions to the Mayor. One member
shall be appointed as chairperson by the Mayor.
      (2)   Members may be reappointed annually, be elected officers and/or
members of the “Ole Miss Youth Sports Board.” However, all members shall be
residents of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor and the Street/Utility Superintendent shall be official
members of the Park Committee. The Clerk-Treasurer shall give directions and
guidelines regarding finances.
   (C)   (1)   Funding for the Park Committee for improvements for various park
areas shall be done by donations, grants, promotions, and events.
      (2)   If the Park Committee operates the concession stand at the
ballfield, such profit of 75% shall go back into ballfield maintenance and
improvements. The remaining profits shall be returned to the park. Such funds
may be adjusted.
   (D)   The Park Committee shall work with the Board of Public Works and
Safety in regard to general maintenance of the park areas and;
   (E)   The Parks Committee shall promote various park and other city-wide
activities that promote the use of the park for the city residents and guests.
(Ord. 5-2023, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 30.40 INTERNAL CONTROL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Internal Control Oversight Committee make up shall be the Mayor,
Clerk-Treasurer, and one member from the Common Council who shall be appointed
annually (during the first meeting of the year) by the members of the Common
Council shall serve for one year and/or is replaced by Common Council majority
vote.
   (B)   The Internal Control Oversight Committee shall meet as needed to carry
out its duties and to make recommendations to Common Council, report on its
findings, and to submit an annual report to the Common Council the first
meeting of December.
   (C)   The Internal Control Oversight Committee’s mission is to make every
effort and willingly to improve the city operations and activities to work to
get it right for the tax payers of the city.
(Ord. 14-2019, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 30.41 VOLUNTEER CODE ENFORCEMENT DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Common Council hereby establishes and adopts a Volunteer Code
Enforcement Department in the process of dealing with various ordinance
violations.
   (B)   The force shall consist of a ten-member force, made up of police
reserves, firefighters, street/utilities, and civilian residents of the city.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall officially appoint the
force, establish job descriptions, guidelines, and procedures working with the
Chief of Police, Fire, and Superintendent of Street and Utilities.
   (D)   The Department will work under the direction of police, Chief of
Police, and the Mayor.
(Ord. 7 2018, passed 6-12-2018)
CHAPTER 31: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Tax abatement policy
   
31.02   Clerk-Treasurer may make certain claim payments in advance of Council
allowance
   
31.03   Community Center fees
   
31.04   Purchasing policy
   
31.05   Cash handling policy for internal controls
   
31.06   Donations
Funds and Accounts
   
31.20   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
31.21   Consolidated Utility Fund
   
31.22   Police Donations Fund
   
31.23   Fire Donations Fund
   
31.24   Park Donations Fund
   
31.25   Riverboat Fund
   
31.26   Rainy Day Fund
   
31.27   Promotional Account
   
31.28   Cares Act Fund
   
31.29   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Grant Fund
   
31.30   Deposits in an emergency
   
31.31   Utility/Plus Cash Fund
   
31.32   Cash Fund; various fundraising activities
   
31.33   Petty Cash Fund
   
31.34   Cardinal Screamway Allocated Donation Fund
Cross-reference:
   Tax Increment Financing, see §
30.35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 TAX ABATEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The Common Council may declare an area in the city to be an “economic
revitalization area” in accord with the definitions set forth in I.C. 6-1.1-12-
1 et seq., or a “residentially distressed area” under the procedures set forth
in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2 and I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2.5 et seq., and grant the tax
abatements for these designations and all others permitted by statute for these
designations.
   (B)   Any individual or entity desiring a tax abatement under this code
shall cooperate with the city in providing all information required by I.C. 6-
1.1-12-1 et seq., including maps, plats, legal descriptions, statement of
benefits, information about jobs and wages, and shall participate in all public
hearings and other procedures required by statute to obtain these designations
and abatements.
(Ord. 6-2005, passed 3-22-2005)
§ 31.02 CLERK-TREASURER MAY MAKE CERTAIN CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF COUNCIL
ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Authority for advanced payment of claims. The Clerk-Treasurer and/or
his or her designee shall have the authority to make claim payments in advance
of approval from the Common Council for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Expenses described in ordinance. The Clerk-Treasurer and/or his or her
designee shall additionally have the authority to make claim payments in
advance from the Common Council for the following expenses:
      (1)   Credit card payments;
      (2)   Line of credit payment;
      (3)   Payments to vendors for routine parts and supplies;
      (4)   Payments for clerical and administrative supplies; and
      (5)   Payments for gasoline and vehicle maintenance services and
supplies.
   (C)   Documentation of claims. The Clerk-Treasurer shall ensure that each
payment of expenses paid in advance of Common Council approval shall be
supported by fully itemized invoice or bill certification by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (D)   Common Council review. The Common Council shall review and allow a
claim at its next regular or special meeting following such claim’s preapproved
payment.
(Ord. 10 2019, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 31.03 COMMUNITY CENTER FEES.
   (A)   Fees.
      (1)   Fees apply to all users. Fees will not be normally being assessed
for city government-approved functions. The city reserves the right to adjust
or wave fees based on extraordinary circumstances with the Board of Public
Works and Safety or Mayor approval.
      (2)   (a)   Payments of cash or checks are accepted. Any checks received
that is returned for NSF shall be assessed a $25 fee, plus a $10 handling fee
and may be necessary to file legal action and would be required legal fees.
         (b)   Applicants who checks have been returned must pay by cash or a
money order; no checks shall be accepted from the applicant in future.
      (3)   All applicants shall be 21 years of age and must complete an
agreement form. Such agreements with fees must be completed 96 hours prior to
rental date. Forms may be emailed to applicants who may be returned by us mail
or dropped off at City Hall, 414 South Main Street, Jonesboro, Indiana 46938.
Cancellation of the event must be made in writing at least 36 hours in advance
to the event.
   (B)   Rate schedule.
      (1)   Non-profit groups shall be charged a daily rental fee of $75 per
day.
      (2)   Daily rental fees for profit groups shall be $100 per day.
      (3)   Any group that charges a fee at the door or sells any type of
goods, material, or orders for such shall have a $25 permit.
      (4)   Damage to the building, appliances, furniture, ground around
building, or equipment shall result in fees of $100 to $25,000.
      (5)   Failure to properly clean up food, beverages, equipment, or empty
trash and clean areas in accordance to guidelines shall result in a fee of
$100. Failure to return the key shall result in a fee of $25.
   (C)   Building rules.
      (1)   No smoking in any location inside of the building is permitted and
eight feet outside from entrance ways (state law), including e-cigarettes.
      (2)   No open flames are permitted, except small votive candles in glass
globes or small birthday candles.
      (3)   All decorations must be non- combustible or treated with an
approved flame retardant.
      (4)   No type of alcoholic beverages or drinks is permitted and are
prohibited.
      (5)   All trash, including left-over foods, need to be placed into trash
bags (such bags are furnished) and put into dumpster, which is located at the
south end of the building.
      (6)   (a)   No loud music should be heard from outside building after 11:
00 p.m.
         (b)   Amplified sound systems may be used, but must be held to the
minimum volume necessary to address those in attendance, and must not disturb
surrounding residential areas.
      (7)   No rice may be thrown inside or outside of the building; bird seed
may be used outside only.
      (8)   Use of any type of tape or adhesives, nails, screws, tacks on
doors, windows, walls, or the ceiling is forbidden. All decorations must use
the hanging hooks.
      (9)   Tables, chairs, or any other equipment may not be removed from
building for any reason, and must be cleaned and properly stored in storage
room after use.
      (10)   All lights, except those on the row, shall be turned off.
      (11)   Users shall make sure water is turned off in kitchen and
restrooms.
(Ord. 6 2017, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.04 PURCHASING POLICY.
   (A)   For purchasing with no federal involvement, the city will follow state
law outlined in I.C. 5-22 et seq., as well as any other applicable state
provisions.
   (B)   For purchasing involving federal funds or federal oversight, the
following procedure shall be followed:
      (1)   The city will maintain records sufficient to detail the history of
procurement. These records will include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Rationale for the method of procurement;
         (b)   Selection of contract type;
         (c)   Contractor selection or rejection; and
         (d)   The basis for the contract price.
      (2)   When the value of the procurement for property or services under a
federal award does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold (SAT), as
defined by federal law, formal procurement methods are not required. The city
may use informal procurement methods to expedite the completion of its
transactions and minimize the associated administrative burden and cost. The
informal methods used for procurement of property or services at or below the
SAT include:
         (a)   Micro-purchases, which adhere to the following.
            1.   The acquisition of supplies or services, the aggregate dollar
amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold established by
federal law. To the maximum extent practicable, the city should distribute
micro-purchases equitably among qualified suppliers.
            2.   Micro-purchases may be awarded without soliciting competitive
price or rate quotations if the city considers the price to be reasonable based
on research, experience, purchase history, or other information and documents
it files accordingly.
            3.   The city adopts the federally-determined threshold for micro-
purchases, reserving the right to increase the threshold based on an evaluation
of risk.
            4.   If the city decides on a threshold above the federal standard,
the city must include any of the following:
               a.   A qualification as a low-risk auditee, in accordance with
the federally-set criteria for the most recent audit;
               b.   An annual internal institutional risk assessment to
identify, mitigate, and manage financial risks; or
               c.   For public institutions, a higher threshold consistent with
state law.
            5.   If the city increases the micro-purchase threshold over
$50,000, it must be approved by the cognizant agency for indirect costs. The
city must submit a request with all federal requirements. The increased
threshold is valid until there is a change in status in which the justification
was approved.
         (b)   Small purchases, which adhere to the following.
            1.   The acquisition of property or services, the aggregate dollar
amount of which is higher than the micro-purchase threshold but does not exceed
the simplified acquisition threshold. Price or rate quotations must be obtained
from an adequate number of qualified sources as determined appropriate by the
Common Council.
            2.   The city adopts the federal simplified acquisition threshold.
         (c)   When the value of the procurement for property or services under
a federal financial assistance award exceeds the SAT, formal procurement
methods are required. Formal procurement methods require following documented
procedures. Formal procurement methods also require public advertising unless a
non-competitive procurement can be used in accordance with federal law. The
following formal methods of procurement are used for procurement of property or
services above the simplified acquisition threshold or a value below the
simplified acquisition threshold.
            1.   Bids shall be publicly solicited and a firm fixed-price
contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded to the responsible bidder whose
bid, conforming with all the material terms and conditions of the invitation
for bids, is the lowest in price.
            2.   Sealed bids will be used when the following conditions are
present:
               a.   A complete, adequate, and realistic specification or
purchase description;
               b.   Two or more responsible bidders are willing and able to
complete effectively for the business; and
               c.   A firm fixed-price contract and the selection of the
successful bidder can be made principally on the basis of price.
            3.   If sealed bids are used, the following requirements apply:
               a.   Bids must be solicited from an adequate number of qualified
sources, providing them sufficient response time prior to the date set for
opening the bids for local, and tribal governments, the invitation for bids
must be publicly advertised;
               b.   The invitation for bids, which will include any
specifications and pertinent attachments, must define the items or services in
order for the bidder to properly respond;
               c.   All bids will be opened at the time and place prescribed in
the invitation for bids; and for local and tribal governments, the bids must be
opened publicly;
               d.   A firm fixed-price contract award will be made in writing
to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. Where specified in bidding
documents, factors such as discounts, transportation cost, and life cycle costs
must be considered in determining which bid is lowest. Payment discounts will
only be used to determine the low bid when prior experience indicates that such
discounts are usually taken advantage of; and
               e.   Any or all bids may be rejected if there is a sound
documented reason.
            4.   A procurement method in which either a fixed price or cost
reimbursement type contract is awarded. Proposals are generally used when
conditions are not appropriate for the use of sealed bids. They are awarded in
accordance with the following requirements:
               a.   Requests for proposals must be publicized and identify all
evaluation factors and their relative importance. Proposal must be solicited
from an adequate number of qualified offerors. Any response to publicized
requests for proposals must be considered to the maximum extent practical;
               b.   The city will hire experts to provide technical evaluations
of the proposals received and advice making selections;
               c.   Contracts must be awarded to the responsible offeror whose
proposal is most advantageous to the city, with price and other factors
considered; and
               d.   The city may use competitive proposal procedure for
qualifications-based procurement of architectural/ engineering (A/E)
professional services whereby offeror’s qualifications are evaluated and the
most qualified offeror is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and
reasonable compensation. The method where price is not used as a selection
factor can only be used in procurement of A/E professional services. It cannot
be used to purchase other types of services though A/E firms that are a
potential source to perform the proposed effort.
         (d)   Noncompetitive procurement. There are specific circumstance in
which noncompetitive procurement can be used. Noncompetitive procurement can
only be awarded if one or more of the following circumstances apply:
            1.   The acquisition of property or services, the aggregate dollar
amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold;
            2.   The item is available only from a single source;
            3.   The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not
permit a delay results from publicizing a competitive solicitation;
            4.   The federal awarding agency or pass-through entity expressly
authorizes a noncompetitive procurement in response to a written request from
the city; or
            5.   After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is
determined inadequate.
               a.   The city shall conduct procurements in a manner that
prohibits the use of statutorily or administrative imposed state, local, or
tribal geographical preferences in the evaluation of bids or proposals, except
in those cases where applicable federal statutes expressly mandate or encourage
geographic preference.
               d.   When contracting for architectural and engineering (A/E)
services, geographic location may be a selection criterion provided its
application leaves an appropriate number of qualified firms, given the nature
and size of the project, to compete for the contract.
               e.   The city will follow procedure outlined in C.F.R. §
108.300, particularly that it will verify that the person with whom the city
intends to do business is not excluded or disqualified, by checking:
                  i.   SAM exclusions;
                  ii.   Collecting a certification from that person; or
                  iii.   Adding a clause or condition to the covered
transaction with that person.
(Ord. 4-2023, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 31.05 CASH HANDLING POLICY FOR INTERNAL CONTROLS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the cash handling policy is to define the
acceptable level of internal control for cash handling operations for all city
departments to ensure clear and consistent practices within the city for the
handling of cash. This policy is designed to avoid fraudulent activity in the
handling of city cash.
   (B)   Scope. This policy applies to all city operating departments with
employees, staff, volunteers, students, elected officials, contractors,
consultants, boards, agencies, commissions, and business partners who accept
cash on behalf of the city and whose financial transactions are captured within
the city’s financial system.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicated or required a
different meaning.
      BONDING OF EMPLOYEES. Agreement under which a bonding or insurance
company guarantees payment of a certain amount as damages in the event that one
or more employees covered in the agreement cause financial loss to the city.
      CASH. Coin, currency, checks, money orders, and credit/debit
transactions.
      CASHIER. Any employee who performs the function of receiving,
transmitting, safeguarding, and/or depositing city cash. This includes the
position of Billing Clerk and/or part-time clerk.
      REFUND. Reimbursement to a customer or vendor for returned, cancelled, or
unsatisfactory goods or services after the original purchase transaction is
completed.
      SEGREGATION OF DUTIES.
         (a)   No single person handles a transaction from beginning to end. If
one person does perform two or more of these functions, there is no independent
check for mistakes, and errors and/or irregularities are very likely to go
undiscovered for long periods.
         (b)   If possible, different people within a cash handling operation
should perform the following four basic functional categories:
            1.   Authorization or approval of transactions;
            2.   Recording of transactions;
            3.   Custody of funds; and
            4.   Monitoring to ensure compliance with internal control
procedures.
         (c)   It is not always practical for the city to maintain strict
SEGREGATION OF DUTIES due to limited staff size, but the following standards
are aimed to control the risks associated with inabilities to segregate.
   (D)   Internal control standards for cash handling.
      A procedure must be in place, which will ensure that all payments
received are processed on a timely basis, and that any payment may be traced
from initial receipt to bank reconciliation. Cash handling procedures should
include the following internal controls:
      (1)   Maintain strict control over all receipt documentation;
      (2)   Use pre-numbered and sequentially numbered receipts either manual
or point of sale generated, for all money received. Receipts must include a
mode of payment information and identify the issuer. Spoiled receipts should be
marked “VOID” and retained in the receipt book. On a quarterly basis; a Common
Council member or Board of Public Works and Saftey member, whomever is
available, will sign and verify that all receipts are intact and accountable
for in each receipt book;
      (3)   All cash received must be accounted for in detail and reconciled to
a corresponding bank deposit, cash register report or source journal;
      (4)   Cash received from any type of fundraising activity for any
department must be turned over to the Clerk-Treasurer within 24 hours of the
fundraising event. Cash shall be accompanied by a signed receipt with two
separate signatures that verify the amount of cash presented to the Clerk-
Treasurer for deposit. At no point shall a department hold cash in their office
or personal possession from the fundraising event beyond the 24 hours preceding
the fundraising event. The Clerk-Treasurer then has until the next business day
to make the deposit;
      (5)   During non-business hours and business periods where access to cash
is not required, all funds are required to be in a locked vault, safe, or other
secure cabinet/drawer;
      (6)   Vault or safe combinations must be limited to the smallest number
of individuals practicable, given the business needs of the work unit;
      (7)   Funds are to be deposited in the bank on a timely basis. Deposits
picked up by bank courier car service will be recorded using a pick up log
which documents the date, deposit bag number, deposit amount, initials of the
city employee releasing the deposit, and initials of the bank courier service
driver taking custody of the funds. The identification of the bank courier
service driver should be compared against a list of authorized personnel before
releasing the deposit;
      (8)   Each cashier is responsible to ensure that his or her cash drawer
is locked when he or she leaves his or her station. No funds are to be left
unattended and unsecured;
      (9)   Checks received through the mail or in person must be endorsed with
the Department’s “For Deposit Only” stamp immediately upon receipt, or signed
by the Clerk-Treasurer when applicable;
      (10)   Under no circumstances should cash disbursement be made from cash
receipts, unless cash is being used in the change making process;
      (11)   Clerk-Treasurer will prepare a monthly bank reconciliation and
have available at regular monthly council meetings. Bank reconciliation shall
be recorded in any government accounting software that the city chooses and
reconciled to bank statements on a monthly basis. The Common Council will
perform review and sign off of the bank reconciliation. Any discrepancies
between funds deposited and bank activity should be investigated and resolved
with assistance from Common Council when necessary;
      (12)   All cash shortages and overages are recorded with the ability to
ascertain individual accountability;
      (13)   (a)   All refunds and voided transactions shall have the following
supporting documentation:
            1.   Transaction date;
            2.   Customer or vendor name, address, phone number, and signature
(if available);
            3.   Original customer receipt (when available);
            4.   Reason for the refund or voided transaction;
            5.   Amount and form of payment;
            6.   Signature of cashier issuing the refund or void; and
            7.   Signature of a Common Council member approving the
transaction.
         (b)   The Common Council should investigate refunds and voided
transactions for which no supporting documentation exists. Refunds should be
returned using the same payment method as the original payment if possible.
      (14)   The cash float or cash change will be stored in a secure location
with limited access at all times. Access to the cash float or cash will be
limited to the Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer will count the cash float
or cash change at the start and end of his or her shift. A report of daily
balancing will be presented at the end of every month to any available Common
Council member for review and sign off.
   (E)   Compliance. Failure of employees to comply with this cash handling
policy could result in disciplinary action.
(Ord. 14 2016, passed 12-27-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.06 DONATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicated or required a different meaning.
         RESTRICTED DONATIONS. Those to which the donor has attached terms,
conditions, or purposes. If the donation is RESTRICTED, the Common Council must
agree in writing, to the terms, conditions, or purposes attached to the
proposed donation.
         UNRESTRICTED DONATIONS. Those to which the donor has not attached,
terms, conditions, or purposes.
      (2)   Income or revenues in the form of tax distributions, tax receipts,
fees, rentals, or contractual payments, and the like, are not considered
donations.
   (B)   (1)   Unrestricted donations into applicable operating fund, such as
park, general, and the like, expenditure of such donated revenue from the
operating fund shall be made only after an appropriation has been provided for
the purpose of the expenditure. Claims must be filed and approved in the
regular legal manner.
      (2)   A restricted donation shall be placed into a separate fund such
fund shall be established by Common Council. Any appropriate descriptive name
may be given the donated fund; claims must be filed and approved in the regular
legal manner before disbursement can be made from the fund.
      (3)   Donations may be made in any form such as monetary, tools,
equipment, labor, and the like, however it is up to the Common Council to
accept or reject at an open public meeting.
   (C)   (1)   Income from investments of restricted donations should be
receipted into the same fund in which the principal of the donations has been
receipted, provided it is to be used for the same purpose as the principal.
      (2)   However, if under the terms of the trust, the principal must be
held in trust in perpetuity and only the income used by the governmental unit,
there should be two funds established. One fund should be designated as “trust
interest.” In this situation, expenditures would only be permitted from the
Trust Interest (Income) Fund.
      (3)   The municipality’s fiscal officer should be the custodian of the
unit’s funds and securities.
(Ord. 4 2017, passed 8-8-2017)
FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
§ 31.20 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   A need now exists for the re-establishment of a Cumulative Capital
Development Fund for all uses as set out in I.C. 36-9-15.5-2.
   (B)   The Common Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5.
The proposed Fund will not exceed $0.05 per $100 of assessed valuation
beginning with the taxes levied in 2015 and payable in 2016 and thereafter,
continuing until reduced or rescinded or renewal every three years.
   (C)   Proofs of publication of the public hearing held on June 9, 2015, and
that certified copy of Ord. No. 2-2015 shall be submitted to the Department of
Local Government Finance of the state as provided by law. Said Cumulative Fund
is subject to approval of the Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 2-2015, passed 6- -2015; Res. 1-2019, passed 2-26-2019)
§ 31.21 CONSOLIDATED UTILITY FUND.
   (A)   The city, with the Clerk-Treasurer, wishes to establish a utility fund
from the original water and wastewater funds into a consolidated Utility Fund.
   (B)   For the purpose of unnecessary bookkeeping which would minimize the
number of bank accounts into one Utility Fund bank account.
   (C)   A separate account shall be maintained for the purpose of approving,
monitoring, and controlling each activity of water or wastewater.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall approve all payable
vouchers from the accounts of water and wastewater and monitor the established
budgets to ensure proper spending controls.
   (E)   Whenever such bond and/or regulations require separate bank accounts
the Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain such accounts.
(Ord. 6, 2015, passed 9- -2015)
§ 31.22 POLICE DONATIONS FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a Police Donations Fund to receive
donations of funds from the community on behalf of the Police Reserves.
   (B)   The city may use the balance of the Police Donations Fund that the
Police Reserves deems appropriate; however the Fund must be used to benefit the
Police Reserves. Expenditures must not be prohibited by state law and are
subject to approval of the Common Council.
   (C)   (1)   All monies donated to the Police Reserves that have a purpose
shall be deposited into the Allocated Police Reserve Donation Fund in
accordance to §
31.06 on the acceptance of donations.
      (2)   Once the money has been spent on the appropriate item(s) and there
is a balance, those funds may be then transferred to the Unallocated Donation
Fund.
   (D)   (1)   All monies donated to the Police Reserves that does not have a
purpose shall be deposited into the Unallocated Police Reserves Donation Fund
in accordance to §
31.06 on the acceptance of donations.
      (2)   This money shall be spent however the Department head and Common
Council feels is appropriate.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 6-11-2013; Ord. 11-2017, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 12-2017,
passed 11-14- 2017)
§ 31.23 FIRE DONATIONS FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a Fire Donations Fund to receive donations
of funds from the community on behalf of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The city may use the balance of the Fire Donations Fund that the Fire
Department deems appropriate, however the Fund must be used to benefit the Fire
Department. Expenditures must not be prohibited by state law and are subject to
approval of the Common Council.
   (C)   All monies donated to the Fire Department that have a purpose shall be
deposited into the Allocated Fire Department Donation Fund in accordance to §
31.06 on the acceptance of donations. Once the money has been spent on the
appropriate item(s), and there is a balance, those funds may be then
transferred to the Unallocated Donation Fund.
   (D)   (1)   All monies donated to the Fire Department that does not have a
purpose shall be deposited into the Unallocated Fire Department Donation Fund
in accordance to §
31.06 on the acceptance of donations.
      (2)   This money shall be spent however the Department head and Common
Council feels is appropriate.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 6-11-2013; Ord. 15-2017, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 16-2017,
passed 11-14- 2017)
§ 31.24 PARK DONATIONS FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a Park Donations Fund to receive donations
of funds from the community on behalf of the city parks.
   (B)   The city may use the balance of the Park Donations Fund that the Parks
Board deems appropriate, however the fund must be used to benefit the city
parks. Expenditures must not be prohibited by state law and are subject to
approval of the Common Council.
   (C)   (1)   All monies donated to the Park Board that have a purpose, shall
be deposited into the Allocated Park Board Donation Fund, in accordance to §
31.06 on the acceptance of donations.
      (2)   Once the money has been spent on the appropriate item/items, and
there is a balance, those funds may be then transferred to the Unallocated
Donation Fund.
   (D)   All monies donated to the Park Board that does not have a purpose
shall be deposited into the Unallocated Park Board Donation Fund in accordance
to §
31.06 on the acceptance of donations. This money shall be spent however the
Park Board and Common Council feels is appropriate.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 6-11-2013; Ord. 13-2017, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 14-2017,
passed 11-14- 2017)
§ 31.25 RIVERBOAT FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby creates a Riverboat Fund.
   (B)   Sources of this Fund shall be revenues received from I.C. 4-33-12-
6 and I.C. 4-33-13.
   (C)   The city may use these funds for any legal or corporate purpose of the
city. Funds must be appropriated in accordance with state law when necessary.
Funds shall be disbursed in the same manner and subject to the same controls as
other city funds. Funds may not be disbursed for items not allowed by state
law.
(Res. 7-2013, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 31.26 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of the Rainy Day Fund. There is hereby established a Rainy
Day Fund to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a
general or special tax levy on taxable property within the city whenever the
purpose of such tax levy has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered
balance remains.
   (B)   Purpose of the Fund. The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may be
used for the operation of the city and its various departments, when the city
does not have sufficient levies or funds to pay such costs, including, but not
limited to, salaries and wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment such as
Fire Department equipment/fire truck, capital improvements, repairs, and
similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfer to Fund. On or before December 31 of each year, the Common
Council shall determine the amount, if any, of unused and unencumbered funds
available to be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund. The transfer may not exceed
more than 10% of the city’s total budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations. The Common Council may authorize the expenditure of
funds from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as
other funds are appropriated that receive tax monies upon making a finding that
the proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the Fund.
(Ord. 3, 2009, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 9-2016, passed 9-27-2016; Ord. 10-2016,
passed 9-27-2016)
§ 31.27 PROMOTIONAL ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The Common Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from
the General Fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting
the betterment of the city.
   (B)   Expenditures from this Fund may include, but are not necessarily
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state, and national
associations of a civic, educational, or governmental nature, which have as
their purpose the betterment and improvement of city operation;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals, and lodging in conjunction with
city business or meetings or organizations to which the city belongs;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the city, including meeting room rental, decorations, meals,
and travel;
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates, or objects such as
commemorative keys; and
      (5)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Common Council to directly
relate to the promotion or betterment of the city.
   (C)   No expenses shall be allowed from the Fund without prior authorization
and approval of the Common Council. Claims for expenses under this section
shall be allowed as prescribed by law.
(1986 Code, § 36-5-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal membership fund, see I.C. 36-5-4-1
§ 31.28 CARES ACT FUND.
   (A)   (1)   The Common Council hereby establishes a fund for the Cares Act.
      (2)   All monies reimbursed to the city shall be deposited into the Cares
Act Fund, in accordance to the State Board of Accounts, the State Finance
Authority, and division (B) below on the acceptance of such funds. This money
shall be spent to replenish the funds spent on Public Health and Public Safety
payroll costs within the General Fund.
   (B)   The Common Council hereby establishes the following process in order
to utilize Cares Act funding to properly pay public health and safety payroll
costs.
      (1)   The Cares Act reimbursement for public health and public safety
payroll shall be received into the city Cares Act Fund.
      (2)   Thereafter, a claim shall be created against the Cares Act Fund for
the amount, up to the payroll reimbursement amount, that the city determines
shall be receipted into the General Fund. This claim must be supported by the
public health and public safety payroll costs that have been expensed from the
General Fund or other appropriate funds and clearly documented in the records
of the city.
      (3)   The money claimed shall be receipted into the General Fund.
      (4)   After the payroll reimbursement amount has been receipted into the
General Fund, the normal appropriation procedures shall apply to the
expenditure of the reimbursement amount.
(Ord. 17-2020, passed 11-10-2020; Ord. 20-2020, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 31.29 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY GRANT FUND.
   (A)   The Common Council, upon direction by and through the State Board of
Accounts (SBOA), hereby establishes a local fund for receipt and disbursement
of funds received through the American Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Grant
Fund of 2021 and, pursuant to I.C. 5-11.
   (B)   The single source of income for the Fund shall be receipt of monies
from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021(ARP) and/or any subsequent deposit of
funds which could or might be directed by state and federal agencies to said
Fund.
   (C)   Funds receipted into the ARP Fund shall require additional
appropriation (Common Council) approval and any expense must adhere to eligible
purposes as detailed in Section 603(c) of ARP as established in 2021 and to
such amendments in said Section 603(c) which could be forthcoming.
   (D)   Management of the Fund shall be completed in adherence to Processes
and Accounting Procedures as detailed by the State Board of Accounts (SBA) in
State Examiner Directive 2021-1 and subsequent memorandum dated March 18, 2021
and in accordance with in place accounting procedures as approved through the
SBOA and any and all subsequent directives through the SBOA.
(Ord. 9-2021, passed 5-25-2021)
§ 31.30 DEPOSITS IN AN EMERGENCY.
   These internal controls, for the purpose of controlling the deposit of all
funds, shall be adopted by the Board of Public Works and Safety to ensure for
safe and efficient management and protection of each utility.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall forward daily any funds that are to be
deposited with utility funds; all funds shall be deposited unless funds are
below $500.
   (B)   The Billing Clerk has the responsibility to complete deposit paperwork
and make the deposit into the approved financial institution and forward the
deposited information to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   (1)   If the Billing Clerk and the financial institution do not match,
the Mayor shall be informed who shall review and if necessary bring to the
Board of Public Works and Safety for review.
      (2)   The Board may forward information to the Common Council and/or
attorney.
   (D)   (1)   During periods of break or lunch, the Billing Clerk shall keep
cash drawer locked and during non-business hours.
      (2)   All money shall be locked in the safe.
   (E)   Anytime during business hours of operations and any cash drawer
exceeds an extra $500 shall be placed into the safe until all monies are
deposited;.
   (F)   If an emergency where such has been declared by the city, county,
state, and/or national agency that may effect operations of handling city
funds, such emergency as COVID-19, in which deposits of city funds may be
reduced to only two times per week, such days as Wednesday and Friday.
   (G)   Whenever the office is closed due to an emergency, all cash, checks,
and the like and paperwork shall be locked in the safe.
(Ord. 14-2020, passed 6-23-2020)
§ 31.31 UTILITY/PLUS CASH FUND.
   (A)   Fund established.
      (1)   The Utility/Plus Cash Fund is hereby established for use by only
the employee with the title of Billing Clerk, having the responsibility of
handling various daily utility activities, plus other appointed daily
activities such as permits, pre-lien payment, approved ticket or approved sale
of items, ordinance violations, and/or community center rental.
      (2)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall be in full control of
the Utility Fund, and shall be the monitor of monetary activities, of the
Billing Clerk, setting various policies and/or procedures in accordance to
various codes, State Board of Accounts requirements, and city ordinances.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall draw a warrant or require funds to be
converted to cash and used to make change when collecting cash revenues and is
to be retained by the Billing Clerk, who is responsible for its custody and
safe checking of such funds.
      (4)   (a)   The Utility/Plus Cash Fund is to be returned to the fund from
which it was advanced when there is a change in employee (Billing Clerk) or a
change in the Clerk-Treasurer position.
         (b)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall oversee the Utility/
Plus Cash Fund by appointing one member who, without notice, confirm the dollar
amount of variance following the policy on material controls, or on a quarterly
basis.
   (B)   Cash change fund amounts.
 
Name of Account Amount Fund Type   Custodian     Usage
Petty cash      $150   Cash change Billing Clerk Year-round
 
(Ord. 15-2016, passed 12-27-2016)
§ 31.32 CASH FUND; VARIOUS FUNDRAISING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Indiana Code 36-1-8-3 authorizes the Common Council to permit any of
its officers, employees, or bonded appointed volunteers, to establish a cash
fund for fundraising activities used only for a change making process.
   (B)   In any type of fundraising activities where cash is received from the
Clerk-Treasurer for a change process, it must be accounted for and signed by
the person in charge of the fundraising event.
   (C)   The Cash Fund will be drawn from the account from which it reflects
the department doing the fundraiser. The Cash Fund change money received shall
be returned by the next business day of the fundraiser. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall deposit the Cash Fund amount back into the corresponding account which
was withdrawn and shall reflect reports to the Common Council.
 
Name of Account Amount Fund Type   Custodian     Usage
Petty cash      $150   Cash change Billing Clerk Year-round
 
   (D)   All fundraising activities for any approved department must be turned
over to the Clerk-Treasurer by the next business day of the fund raising event.
The Clerk-Treasurer may work with the billing clerk with these activities. Cash
shall be accompanied by a signed receipt with two separate signatures that
verify the amount of cash presented to the Clerk-Treasurer for deposit. At no
point shall a department hold cash in their office or personal possession from
the fundraising event.
   (E)   Funds from the fundraising event are to be deposited into the bank in
a timely manner.
(Ord. 16-2016, passed 12-27-2016)
§ 31.33 PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   Fund established.
      (1)   A Petty Cash Fund is hereby established for use by the city
officer, employee, or bonded appointee having a duty to require payment of
small or emergency items of operating expense. Such a Fund must be established
by a warrant drawn on the appropriate fund in an amount determined by the
Common Council.
      (2)   The officer or employee who is charged with paying small or
emergency items in the amount deemed necessary shall obtain the money from
petty cash. A receipt shall be taken for each and every expenditure from such
and an accounts payable voucher shall be filed by the custodian of the Fund, to
reimburse such Fund for expenditures so made. No reimbursement shall be made
unless there is attached to the accounts payable voucher receipts totaling the
amount so claimed. Such reimbursement shall be approved, allowed, and paid in
the same manner as other accounts payable vouchers. The amount of the Fund
shall be established by the fiscal body of the political subdivision.
      (3)   The Petty Cash Fund is to be returned to the fund from which it was
advanced when the Fund is no longer needed or must be returned at the
conclusion of each term served by the officer. The Common Council as fiscal
body shall as a body, appoint one or two members who without notice, confirm
the dollar amount of variance following the policy on the material controls.
   (B)   Cash change fund amounts.
 
Name of Account Amount Fund Type   Custodian     Usage
Petty cash      $150   Cash change Billing Clerk Year-round
 
(Ord. 17-2016, passed 12-27-2016)
§ 31.34 CARDINAL SCREAMWAY ALLOCATED DONATION FUND.
   (A)   The Common Council hereby establishes an allocated donation fund for
the Cardinal Screamway.
   (B)   All monies donated to the Cardinal Screamway shall be deposited into
the allocated Cardinal Screamway Donation Fund on the acceptance of donations.
This money shall be spent however the Cardinal Screamway directors and council
feels is appropriate.
(Ord. 19-2020, passed 11-10-2020)
CHAPTER 32: PERSONNEL
Section
   
32.01   Nondiscrimination policy
   
32.02   Social Security coverage
   
32.03   Compensation and employment benefits
   
32.04   Time cards
   
32.05   Military leaves of absence
   
32.06   Business credit cards
Cross-reference:
   Participation in Police and Firefighters Pension and Disability Fund, see §
30.37
§ 32.01 NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city not to discriminate against any employee
or applicant for employment due to the race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, age, or handicap of that individual.
   (B)   This policy extends to all phases of employment and shall include, but
not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer;
      (2)   Recruitment or recruitment advertising;
      (3)   Lay-off or termination;
      (4)   Rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and
      (5)   Selection for training, including apprenticeship.
(1986 Code, § 22-9-1-12.1)
Statutory reference:
   Local civil rights commission authority, see I.C. 22-9-1-12.1
§ 32.02 SOCIAL SECURITY COVERAGE.
   (A)   The Common Council hereby elects coverage under the Old-Age and
Survivors’ Insurance as provided by I.C. 5-10.1-2-1 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   All employees shall be covered except those positions covered by a
retirement plan on January 1, 1952.
   (C)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of 42 U.S.C. §§ 301 et
seq., as amended, the agreement entered into between the state agency with the
approval of the Governor and the Social Security Administrator is made a part
of this section and constitutes an integral part of the federal agreement
between the city and the state agency and becomes part of the agreement or
modification of the agreement between the state and the Social Security
Administrator. The Common Council hereby explicitly agrees that it will fully
perform the obligation of a political subdivision under the federal-state
agreement and I.C. 5-10.1-2-1 et seq. as amended and as implemented by
regulations of the state agency.
(1986 Code, § 5-10.1-2-1) (Ord. 2-1951, passed 9-10-1951)
Statutory reference:
   Social Security coverage for municipal employees, see I.C. 5-10.1-2-1
§ 32.03 COMPENSATION AND EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS.
   Compensation and benefits for city officials and employees are established
by ordinance from time to time.
(1986 Code, § 36-5-3-2) (Ord. 117, passed 9-5-1911; Ord. 119, passed 1-16-1912;
Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1914; Ord. 129, passed 2-2-1915; Ord. 131, passed 6-4-
1916; Ord. 145, passed 1-14-1918; Ord. 155, passed 2-11-1919; Ord. 156, passed
9-9-1919; Ord. 162, passed 2-10-1920; Ord. 167, passed 5-10-1921; Ord. 4-1947,
passed 12-29-1947, Ord. 3-1967, passed 9-12-1967; Ord. 5-1969, passed 12-23-
1969; Ord. 2-1973, passed 1-24-1973; Ord. passed 1-21-1974; Ord. 1-1976, passed
1-28-1976; Ord. 1-1977, passed 2-23-1977; Ord. passed 4-27-1977; Ord. 2-1977,
passed 12-28-1977; Ord. 4-1978, passed 12-27-1978; Ord. passed 12-26-1979; Ord.
1-1981, passed 6-28-1981; Ord. 2-1981, passed 3-11-1981; Ord. 1-1982, passed 1-
13-1983; Ord. 3-1983, passed 4-13-1983; Ord. 5-1984, passed 4-10-1984; Ord. 1-
1985, passed 1-8-1985; Ord. 3-1985, passed 3-12-1985; Ord. 6-1985, passed 5-14-
1985; Ord. 2-1986, passed 2-25-1986; Ord. passed 3-11-1986; Ord. 2-1990, passed
1-9-1990; Ord. 1-1992, passed 1-14-1992; Ord. 8-1993, passed 8-10-1993; Ord.
11-1993, passed 12-14-1993; Ord. 1-1994, passed 1-25-1994; Ord. 7-1995, passed
11-28-1995; Ord. 1-1996, passed 5-14-1996; Ord. 4-1996, passed 7-23-1996; Ord.
8-1996, passed 11-26-1996; Ord. 9-1996, passed 12-10-1996; Res. 12, 1996,
passed 12-30-1996; Ord. 4-1997, passed 7-29-1997; Ord. 7-1998, passed - -1998;
Ord. 5-1998, passed 7-28-1998; Ord. 7-1999, passed 8-18-1999; Ord. 9-1999,
passed 10-12-1999; Ord. 3-2000, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 4-2000, passed 8-15-2000;
Ord. 6-2001, passed - -; Ord. 7-2001, passed - -; Ord. 1-2001, passed 2-27-
2001; Ord. 6-2002, passed 7-9-2002; Ord. 7-2002, passed 8-27-2002; Ord. 8-2002,
passed 9-10-2002; Ord. 1-2003, passed 3-11-2003; Ord. 3-2003, passed 8-26-2003;
Ord. 4-2003, passed 8-26-2003; Ord. 1-2005, passed 2-8-2005; Ord. 9-2005,
passed 7-26-2005; Ord. 10-2005, passed 7-26-2005; Ord. 17-2006, passed - -2006;
Ord. 1-2006, passed 3-14-2006; Ord. 6-2006, passed 5-23-2006; Ord. 8-2006,
passed 8-8-2006; Ord. 2-2007, passed - -2007; Ord. 3-2007, passed - -2007; Ord.
4-2010, passed - -2010; Ord. 5-2010, passed - -2010; Ord. 2-2011, passed 9-27-
2011; Ord. 3-2011, passed 9-27-2011; Ord. 2-2012, passed 3-13-2012; Ord. 3-
2012, passed 3-13-2012; Ord. 10-2013, passed - -; Ord. 2-2013, passed 1-22-
2013; Ord. 3-2013, passed 1-22-2013; Ord. 4-2014, passed 3-25-2014; Ord. 5-
2014, passed 4-8-2014; Ord. 6-2014, passed 4-8-2014; Ord. 9-2014, passed 6-24-
2014; Ord. 12 2016, passed 10-25-2016; Ord. 13 2016, passed 10- 25-2016; Ord.
19 2016, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 20 2016, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 21-2016,
passed 12- 27-2016; Ord. 22 2016, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 1- 2017, passed 1-24-
2017; Ord. 7-2017, passed 11-14- 2017; Ord. 8-2017, passed 8- -2017; Ord. 9-
2017, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 10-2017, passed 11-14- 2017; Ord. 16 2018, passed
12-11-2018; Ord. 12 2018, passed 10-23-2018; Ord. 13 2018, passed 10- 23-2018;
Ord. 8-2019, passed 8-27-2019; Ord. 9 2019, passed 8-27-2019; Ord. 3-2021,
passed 2-23- 2021; Ord. 6-2021, passed 4-13-2021; Ord. 7-2021, passed 4-13-
2021; Ord. 12-2023, passed 12-12-2023; Ord. 13-2023, passed 12-12-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of city officials, see I.C. 36-5-3-2
§ 32.04 TIME CARDS.
   (A)   In any situation where the Clerk-Treasurer is supervisor of an
employee, the Mayor shall co-sign the employee’s time card.
   (B)   Approved salary and wage rates shall be verified by the mayor prior to
the payroll process for all appointed new hires, whether they are full time,
part time, temporary, or permanent. Also, any change of approved payroll
status.
   (C)   The Common Council has the responsibility of assuring that all
positions salaries have been approved within the salary ordinance. A member of
the Common Council shall verify the pay of the Clerk- Treasurer and the Mayor.
The Mayor shall verify the pay of the Common Council members.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works and Safety has the responsibility for
hiring, terminating, and approving promotions or other employee actions and
instructing the Clerk-Treasurer of payroll transactions required in accordance
to ordinance. Any requirement for additional changes in salary or benefits as
stated in the ordinance shall be approved by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
   (E)   The Mayor, with each department head, shall develop job descriptions
in accordance to each position within the salary ordinance. The Board of Public
Works and Safety shall approve such job descriptions or changes.
   (F)   Any corrections to any recorded time and attendance records must be
approved by the supervisor and the employee who must initial any changes after
submitting a time card.
   (G)   City pay periods shall be bi-weekly starting at 12:00 a.m. (midnight)
on a Monday night and ending two weeks later at midnight on a Sunday. Payday
for said period of time shall be the following Thursday of such pay period.
   (H)   Payday shall be on Thursday following the pay period. The exception
shall be when a payday falls on a holiday, the Clerk-Treasurer shall pay on
Wednesday.
   (I)   Checks shall be placed into envelopes, sealed for individual employee
pick up. Checks will be distributed by the end of business on scheduled payday.
No checks will be given to anyone other than the payee unless the payee gives a
written request to the Clerk-Treasurer. The note must be signed by the
employee, have the printed name of the person who is picking up the check, what
their relationship is, and also have the last four digits of the employees SSN.
   (J)   (1)   Based upon city ordinance, the supervisor shall present a six-
month performance evaluation to the Board of Public Works and Safety prior to
the new employee receiving the 10% increase on salary.
      (2)   The Board of Public Works and Safety, upon approval, shall instruct
the Clerk-Treasurer on the approval of pay based upon ordinance.
   (K)   An appointed Common Council member shall verify, in accordance to the
salary ordinance, the salary and wage rates paid per employee quarterly.
   (L)   Whenever the Clerk-Treasurer is unable to complete the task of
processing the payroll checks, The Deputy Clerk-Treasurer shall complete the
process and the Mayor shall sign the checks.
   (M)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s applications is controlled and each Clerk-
Treasurer and Deputy shall have separate logins and passwords, which shall be
changed every 30 days.
   (N)   Payroll checks are accounted for in numerical order and reconciled by
the Mayor on a quarterly basis. The Mayor may verify payroll disbursements
prior to payment to employees.
(Ord. 14 2018, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 32.05 MILITARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
   All officers and employees of the city who are members of the State National
Guard, a reserve component, or a member of the retired personnel of the naval,
air, or ground forces of the United States are entitled to the following leaves
of absence.
   (A)   (1)   As stated in I.C. 10-16-7-7 and I.C. 10-16-7-5, a member of any
of these branches, who is employed with the city, shall be entitled to a leave
of absence from the employee’s respective duties in addition to regular
vacation period without loss of time or pay from the time that the member is
doing either of the following for any consecutive or non-consecutive period
that does not exceed a total of 15 days in any calendar year:
         (a)   On training duties of the state under the order of the governor
as commander in chief; or
         (b)   A member of any reserve component under the order of the reserve
component authority.
      (2)   The entitlement to a leave of absence without loss of time or pay
is not at the discretion of the member’s employer.
   (B)   A military leave of absence will be granted to all full time city
employees to attend scheduled drills or training, or to respond to a call of
active duty with the United States Armed Forces. Employees with appropriate
military orders will be granted paid leave for annual training for the Reserve
or National Guard for a period up to two weeks or 15 days per year, and are
entitled to civilian and military pay up to two weeks or 15 days per year.
Required leave in excess of the two weeks will be granted on an unpaid basis.
During any unpaid military leave, the employee will be placed in an inactive
employee status and will be eligible for extended rehire rights immediately
upon the conclusion of the unpaid military leave.
   (C)   Subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of the applicable
plans for which the employee is otherwise eligible, the employer will continue
to provide health insurance benefits for the full term of the annual training
period.
   (D)   Employees on two-week (15 days) active duty training assignments or
inactive duty training drills are required to return to work for the first
regularly scheduled shift after the end of training, allowing reasonable travel
time.
(Ord. 15 2018, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 32.06 BUSINESS CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The Common Council hereby authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to make an
application for business credit cards under the home rule.
   (B)   Every application shall be signed by the Mayor.
   (C)   (1)   Business cards so issued shall have a maximum limit of $2,500;
no single charge or purchase of any city credit cards shall exceed $500, unless
in an emergency, which must be approved by Clerk-Treasurer and Mayor
      (2)    Prior approval by Board of Public Works and Safety and/or Common
Council on any item exceeding the $500 amount is required.
   (D)   (1)   City officials and/or employees may use credit cards for the
purpose of city travel expenses limited to the following:
         (a)   Hotel or motel room;
         (b)   Meals, including a maximum 15% gratuity; and/or
         (c)   Fees associated with attending schools, workshops, or seminars
and the like.
      (2)   Excluded charges include alcoholic beverages, room service expenses
of any kind, cash advances, or any personal or non-business expense of any
kind.
   (E)   This section is adopted in compliance with the State Board of Accounts
Accounting and Uniform Compliance Guidelines Manual for cities and towns,
Chapter 7, authorizing a city to use credit cards for purchases.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a credit card to an official, the
Mayor, and/or the appropriate employee for use as approved. Such cards shall be
returned to Clerk-Treasurer within 72 hours of use with payable vouchers and/or
properly itemized list of items purchased.
   (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall list all credit card purchases on accounts
payable vouchers for review and approval, along with the itemized credit card
statement.
   (H)   The credit card accounts shall be paid in full every billing cycle.
   (I)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified immediately if a credit card is
lost or stolen. If a card is lost due to negligence on part of a city employee,
the employee shall be responsible for any and all expenses incurred on the lost
card.
   (J)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to revoke credit card usage by an
official, Mayor, or city employee that has used it in violation of city policy.
(Ord. 2-2018, passed 1-9-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 33: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
33.01   Establishment of Ordinance Violations Bureau; jurisdiction
   
33.02   Clerk-Treasurer duties as Violations Clerk
   
33.03   Payment of fines
   
33.04   Complaint issuance
   
33.05   Allocation of proceeds
   
33.06   Ordinance violations civil penalties schedule
   
33.07   Submission form
Cross-reference:
   Volunteer Code Enforcement Department, see §
30.41
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   There is hereby established a city Ordinance Violations Bureau as.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is appointed as the Violation Clerk and shall be
the administrator of the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (C)   (1)   Ordinance Violations Bureau cannot collect civil penalties
including expenses of enforcement in an amount exceeding $250. Any penalties
and expenses of enforcement exceeding a combined total in excess of $250 must
be processed as an ordinance violation by proceedings in a court of general
jurisdiction.
      (2)   All moving traffic violations pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-3 can not be
processed through the Ordinance Violations Bureau; and all moving traffic
violations shall be processed in a court of general jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 8-12-2018)
§ 33.02 CLERK-TREASURER DUTIES AS VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   (A)   The Violations Clerk may accept:
      (1)   Written appearances for the jurisdiction of the Bureau;
      (2)   Waivers of trial;
      (3)   Admissions of violations;
      (4)   Agreements to pay a civil penalty; and
      (5)   Payments of civil penalties within 14 days of an admission of a
violation.
   (B)   (1)   Such payment per (A)(5) above shall be in cash or money order
payable to the “City of Jonesboro, Indiana;” and such payment shall be made by
mail or in person to the Violations Clerk or designated Deputy of the
Violations Clerk.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer, as the Violations Clerk, shall keep for the
public the Forms of the Ordinance Violations Bureau, as listed and as
illustrated in the schedule in §
33.07.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 8-12-2018)
§ 33.03 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   (A)   A person who has been cited for violation of one of the ordinances
designated by the Common Council as shown in §
33.06 may pay the amount designated by the Common Council from time to time to
the Ordinance Violations Bureau in cash or money order payable to the city.
   (B)   A person charged with an ordinance violation is entitled to a trial
before court as provided by law, unless the person enters an appearance, waives
the right to trial, enters an admission of the violation and agrees to the
payment of civil penalty to the Violations Clerk or designated Deputy of the
Violations Clerk.
   (C)   Failure to pay the civil penalty for the violation of the code
provisions of the city ordinances within fourteen 14 days shall be referred to
the City Attorney to initiate proceedings in court for the alleged ordinance
violations which may result in court costs and additional penalties.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 8-12-2018)
§ 33.04 COMPLAINT ISSUANCE.
   Any city police officer or other city official or employee authorized by
regulation of the city or state law to issue complaints for ordinance
violations of regulations may issue complaints to the Clerk of the Ordinance
Violations Bureau, excluding moving traffic violations pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-
3.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 8-12-2018)
§ 33.05 ALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS.
   All proceeds from the Ordinance Violations Bureau shall be placed into the
General Fund of the city, unless otherwise designated within a specific
ordinance and in accordance with the State Board of Accounts policies and
procedures.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 8-12-2018)
§ 33.06 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS CIVIL PENALTIES SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The penalties below are subject to change at the discretion of the
Common Council. Where these penalty fines conflict with other areas of the
code, the most recent fine values shall prevail.
   (B)   Penalties and expenses of enforcement in excess of $250 require court
hearing action for enforcement; and such amounts in excess of $250 can not be
processed through the Ordinance Violations Bureau for enforcement.
Ordinance Number Penalty
Ordinance Number                                                  Penalty
4-2013: Discharge of weapons within city corporate limits
 Section 1(A)
  First violation                                               $25
    Any violation after first                                     $50
 Section 1(B)
  First violation                                               $250
3-2014: Regulating business
 Any solicitor without proper permits                            $100 per day
5-2012: Open burning
  First violation                                                 $50
 Second violation                                                $75
  Third violation                                                 $125
  Fourth violation                                                $200
1-2018: Animal control (per separate violation)
 Temporary holding of an animal (maximum of 3 days, and housing) $15 per day
 Animals requiring pick-up and /or taken to Humane Society       $100 per trip
  Shelter personal call or animal taken to shelter
 Abandonment                                                     $40
 Breeding
    First violation                                               $100
  Second violation                                              $200
    Third violation                                               $300
 Code enforcement officer to pick- up animal
    First violation                                               $10
  Second violation                                              $20
    Third violation                                               $40
 Confinement in automobile
    First violation                                               $40
  Second violation                                              $80
    Third violation                                               $120
 Feces on public or private property not removed
    First violation                                               $10
  Second violation                                              $20
    Third violation                                               $40
 Food/shelter
    First violation                                               $30
  Second violation                                              $60
    Third violation                                               $90
 Nuisance
    First violation                                               $25
  Second violation                                              $50
    Third violation                                               $100
 Prohibited animal
    First violation                                               $100
  Second violation                                              $150
    Third violation                                               $200
 Treatment
    First violation                                               $40
  Second violation                                              $80
    Third violation                                               $120
 Trespass
    First violation                                               $25
  Second violation                                              $50
    Third violation                                               $100
 Vicious animal
    First violation                                               $50
  Second violation                                              $100
    Third violation                                               $150
2-2005: Parking
 First violation                                                 $50
  Any violation after the first                                   $100
11-2007: Noise control
  First violation                                                 $25
 Second violation                                                $50
  Third violation                                                 $150
  Fourth violation                                                $200
6-2012: Public nuisances
  First violation                                                 $25
 Second violation                                                $50
  Third violation                                                 $150
  Fourth violation                                                $250
 
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 8-12-2018)
§ 33.07 SUBMISSION FORM.
(___________________________) Undersigned agrees to the following:
1.   My Appearance and Submission to Jurisdiction of Ordinance Violations
Bureau;
2.   Waiver of any right to Trial on charge of an Ordinance Violation in a
Court of General Jurisdiction;
3.   Admit to violation of Jonesboro Ordinance_________________________by
failure to comply with _____________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________
as set forth in the Complaint/Ticket No:____________________________ issued to
me on _______________, 20_____;
4.   Agree to civil penalty of $___________________; and
5.   Agree to pay the penalty of $________ on or before
________________________, 20_;
                                 Dated:__________________________, 20__________
                                    ____________________________
                                          Signature
Printed Name:________________
   (_______) Undersigned denies Violation as set forth in the Complaint/Ticket
No:________________I issued to me on ________________, ______20; and
undersigned requests that such Complaint/Ticket be referred to the Jonesboro
City Attorney for prosecution of the alleged Ordinance Violations in a Court of
General Jurisdiction
                                 Dated:__________________________, 20__________
                                    ____________________________
                                          Signature
Printed Name:________________
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 8-12-2018)
CHAPTER 34: SAFETY AND EMERGENCY PROVISIONS
Section
Emergency Preparedness
   
34.01   Adoption of the Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
Law Enforcement
   
34.15   Police Department operating procedure
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
§ 34.01 ADOPTION OF THE MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Grant County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Res. 3, passed 8-22-2017)
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 34.15 POLICE DEPARTMENT OPERATING PROCEDURE.
   The Jonesboro Police Department Policy Manuel is hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Res. 2016-4, passed 9-27-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SANITATION
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Uncollectible accounts
   
50.02   Payment options for utility deposits and/or monthly utility payments
   
50.03   Reconnect procedure
   
50.04   Utility regulations handbook
Uniform Municipal Utility Billing Procedures
   
50.15   Definitions
   
50.16   Utility billing policies and procedures   
   
50.17   Utility billing
   
50.18   Rate ordinances
   
50.19   Monthly utility bill
   
50.20   Monthly billing rate determined by customer’s use characteristics
   
50.21   Extra service bills
   
50.22   Billing cycle
   
50.23   Reconnection charges
   
50.24   Application of payments when payment is less than total billing
   
50.25   Delinquent customers
   
50.26   Municipal utility service application
   
50.27   Disputed utility bills
   
50.28   Promissory agreement
   
50.29   Adjustment of bills
   
50.30   Service charges
   
50.31   Grinder pumps
   
50.32   Mobile home communities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 UNCOLLECTIBLE ACCOUNTS.
   The following shall constitute the bad debt/uncollectible accounts
receivable write-off policies and procedures for the city and its municipal
water, wastewater, fire protection, and trash services.
   (A)   As used in this section, UNCOLLECTIBLE ACCOUNT means a delinquent
account receivable for which the city or one or more of its utilities have
reasonably and diligently attempted collection, but which collection remains
unsuccessful.
   (B)   The city and its utilities shall prepare an annual schedule of
uncollectible accounts, if any exist. This schedule shall consist of accounts
that the Billing Clerk has determined to be uncollectible. This schedule shall
include the following:
      (1)   A statement stating any efforts that have been made to collect the
account and reciting that such efforts have been unsuccessful; and
      (2)   A statement that the Billing Clerk along with the Clerk-Treasurer
believes that it is not economically feasible to pursue efforts on the
specified uncollectible account(s).
   (C)   This schedule of uncollectible accounts shall then be submitted to the
Board of Public Works and Safety to declare said accounts either collectible or
uncollectible, and if declared uncollectible, forwarded to the Common Council
who then may authorize the city of one or more of its utilities to cease
further collection efforts and expense (“write-off”) the amounts outstanding on
the accounts as bad debts.
   (D)   If any account has been written off, where such a former customer may
apply for services, he or she shall be denied services until the write-off
amount is paid in full of charges in relationship to said amount.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 7-24-2015)
§ 50.02 PAYMENT OPTIONS FOR UTILITY DEPOSITS AND/OR MONTHLY UTILITY PAYMENTS.
   (A)   When paying in person, the customer should bring the entire bill with
them.
   (B)   Cash is accepted, but no more than $5 of change will be accepted.
   (C)   Checks or money orders are accepted for the correct amount.
   (D)   Bills may be paid in person, at drive-thru, using drop box on the
front door, or by U.S. mail. Payment must be received by the due date of the
fifteenth of the month to avoid late charges. If the fifteenth falls on the
weekend, holiday, or in case the office is closed, payment must be made by the
next business day in which the office is open.
   (E)   City Utilities provides several payment options for the convenience of
customers. Bills may be paid online or by phone anytime, 24 hours per day,
seven days per week using a secured electronic payment system including online
bank direct, accepting cards (credit and debit) for a fee including e-checks
for a fee, and Visa, MasterCard, or Discover with an online service of Invoice
Cloud.
   (F)   Deposit payments and/or tap fees shall be paid only by check, cash,
and/or money orders in the billing office.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 50.03 RECONNECT PROCEDURE.
   The total utility bill of a customer must be paid before the customer’s
utilities can be turned back on.
(Ord. 2-1998, passed 2-10-1998)
§ 50.04 UTILITY REGULATIONS HANDBOOK.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this section to ensure
consistent application of the rules, standards, and procedures for utilities,
in the city. Adopting these guidelines, in handbook form, will provide a
current, attainable, regulation for all facets of the utility system, public
and private.
   (B)   All current procedures, policies, and practices are in included in the
Utility Service Board Rules and Regulations.
   (C)   Exceptions can be made at the discretion of the Council. Updates and
revisions may be made at the discretion of the Common Council.
(Ord. 9-2001, passed - -2000)
UNIFORM MUNICIPAL UTILITY
BILLING PROCEDURES
§ 50.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILL. The statement of account for municipal utility services rendered by
the city to a customer and due and payable to the city by the customer.
   CITY.  The municipal corporation known as the City of Jonesboro, and any
municipal subdivision or department of the city or any designated agent
authorized to act on behalf of the city.
   CUSTOMER. The owner of the property, or renter, financial business, and/or
whoever’s name is on an application, is ultimately responsible for water,
wastewater, and/or stormwater bills for the property. The CUSTOMER shall be
required to make a suitable deposit for protection of the utility. The real
property owner may have a tenant pay for all utilities or require tenants to
pay part of utilities. The real property owner may pay for part and/or all
utilities.
   DEFERRED. A delay in payment of the bill to prevent disconnect of services.
   DELINQUENT CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, corporation, or entity who fails to
pay any current charges or portion thereof for any municipal utility by the due
date of the bill.
   DEPOSIT. An amount specified in the city’s various deposit rate ordinances
that is charged to all customers as a guarantee against the non-payment of
bills for service. The DEPOSIT is collected from every utility. An additional
deposit will be required for a customer who has been disconnected two times in
a six-month period. The DEPOSIT shall be in cash only, money orders, or other
approved payment methods, which may be a fee for such option. All deposits must
be paid in the utility office. No online payments will be accepted. DEPOSITS
shall remain as long as the customer has a utility with the city.
   DISCONNECT. The water services shall not be made available to any person,
firm, corporation, or entity due to non-payment. DISCONNECT shall not take
place during a time when the office is closed anytime within four hours of
DISCONNECT, prior to a weekend or holiday. Utility services employees shall
post notice upon disconnect such notice shall state reason and lists the
utility billing office phone number. At any time, if a customer was
DISCONNECTED by mistake, steps should be taken to reconnect the customers
without any additional charges. The utility service personnel who is on call
and receives such a call shall inform the City Clerk-Treasurer of such prior to
reconnection.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY. The water, sewer, or stormwater departments or system of
the city and the owner of each utility.
   PROMISSORY AGREEMENT. A contract between customer and the city allowing the
customer to make payments to the city to pay any current or past due charges or
portion thereof for any municipal utility within a ten-month period, which may
be extended to a longer period not to exceed 13 months only with board approval
in unusual situations.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.16 UTILITY BILLING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The following policies and procedure shall govern the provision of municipal
utilities of the city. The Board of Public Works and Safety may create
administrative codes in carrying out these policies and procedures.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.17 UTILITY BILLING.
   There is hereby created a Utility Billing Section within such department as
may be designated by the Common Council. The Board of Public Works and Safety
shall control this operation. The billing office shall be responsible for the
calculation and rendering of all municipal utility bills. The Utility Billing
Section shall maintain account records for each customer that includes the
customer’s name, billing address, service address, current charges, and account
history including past due charges, penalties, and fees, and billing date. The
billing date is the date on which the bill becomes delinquent, including if the
bill is estimated. The City Clerk-Treasurer will manage the daily activities of
this section with support of the Mayor and the superintendent of utilities.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.18 RATE ORDINANCES.
   The city shall establish, maintain, and periodically revise a water,
wastewater, and stormwater rate ordinances. Said ordinances shall contain all
the various fees, rates, and charges that the municipal utility will charge to
its customers. All municipal utility charges shall be calculated in accordance
with the current water, wastewater, and stormwater rate ordinances applicable
to the municipal utilities or services rendered to a customer. Upon request,
the utility shall supply the applicant a copy of the most recent rate schedules
at no charge.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.19 MONTHLY UTILITY BILL.
   The Utility Billing Section of the city shall provide each municipal utility
customer with a monthly water bill, a monthly wastewater bill, and a monthly
stormwater bill which shall include the charge incurred by the customer for
each monthly water and wastewater services charges. The customer is responsible
for paying each monthly bill in a timely manner. Bills for municipal utility
services shall be rendered and paid monthly.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.20 MONTHLY BILLING RATE DETERMINED BY CUSTOMER’S USE CHARACTERISTICS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall approve any necessary
vendors and/or equipment to carry out the various billing, payment, and/or
collection activities.
   (B)   The monthly utility billing rate is determined by the customer’s use
characteristics.
   (C)   The city’s water, wastewater and stormwater rate ordinance may contain
the provision for both monthly flat rates and monthly metered rates or other
rate process.
   (D)   All residential use customers will be billed a monthly rate for water
service, sanitary sewer service and stormwater service in accordance with the
water and wastewater rate ordinances. These rate changes will be determined by
the water use characteristics of the non-residential customer or in another
manner approved by the city.
   (E)   The city and its agents have the power, right, and ability to
investigate the water, sewer, and stormwater use characteristics of any
customer at any time and modify the customer’s billing rate based on the
investigation, in accordance with the water, wastewater and stormwater rate
ordinances.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.21 EXTRA SERVICE BILLS.
   Billings for any extra services, installation charges, penalties, collection
fees, or other special charges shall be rendered in accordance with the
applicable utility or service rate resolution and shall be sent as a separate
bill.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.22 BILLING CYCLE.
   (A)   Usage period. The usage period is the month or any part of the month
during which water, wastewater, or stormwater sewer service is provided or is
available to be provided to a customer of the utility or the month or part of
the month that a customer’s property is physically connected to the city’s
water, wastewater, or stormwater system.
   (B)   Bill date. The bill date shall be the day of the month that bills are
received following the month that service is provided or available to be
provided. If a customer does not receive a bill, the bill is still owed.
Customers may request a duplicated bill.
   (C)   Billing period. The billing period is the time between the bill date
and the delinquent date. Billings will be distributed by the city to each
customer of the city on a monthly basis, through the issuance of a monthly
bill. Each monthly bill will state the date the bill is due, and the date after
which the bill is considered delinquent, and delinquent fees will be added. The
total bill shall be due and payable by the close of business no later than the
fifteenth day of the month after the billing date. The fifteenth day of the
month following the billing date shall be known as the DUE DATE. If the due
date falls on a holiday, Saturday, or Sunday, the due date will move to the
next business day.
   (D)   Delinquent date. If a bill is not paid on or before the close of
business of the due date, a late charge equal to 10% of the current bill amount
shall be added to the previously billed charges. The first business day
following the due date shall be known as the DELINQUENT DATE. If the delinquent
date falls on a holiday, Saturday, or Sunday, the bill shall then become
delinquent at 8:00 a.m. on the second business day following the holiday or
weekend.
   (E)   Lien notification date. If a wastewater bill is not paid on or before
the close of business on the sixtieth business day following the due date, the
city will send an “intention to file lien” letter to the property address. If
an owner of a non-owner occupied property has provided its name and address to
the city with a request to be notified of billing delinquencies, a copy of the
intention to file lien letter will also be sent to this address. If the lien
notification date falls on a holiday, Saturday, or Sunday, the intention to
file lien letter shall then be distributed on the first business day following
the holiday or weekend.
   (F)   Lien file date. If a wastewater bill is not paid on or before ten
business days following the lien notification date, the city or the city’s
attorney shall file a lien on the property at its earliest convenience. The
date ten business days following the lien notification date shall be known as
the LIEN FILE DATE. If the lien file date falls on a holiday, Saturday, or
Sunday, the first date that liens will be filed shall then occur on the first
business day following the holiday or weekend.
   (G)   Clerk-Treasurer as hearing officer on application for extension on
disconnection of service. A person owing an unpaid water bill may appeal in
writing to the Clerk-Treasurer for an extension of the date when water service
would be subject to discontinuation, setting forth in detail the extraordinary
hardship or other unavoidable circumstances whereby the delinquent bill cannot
be paid within the allowed period. The Clerk-Treasurer, acting as the hearing
officer for the extension request, may grant or deny such request, in whole or
in part. The hearing officer may require partial payment of the delinquent bill
in return for granting an extension.
   (H)   Appeal of hearing officers denial of disconnection extension. A person
owing an unpaid water bill may appeal the determination of the Clerk-Treasurer
acting as hearing officer in division (H) above.
      (1)   The appeal will be in writing to the Board of Public Works and
Safety which shall act on the appeal in its capacity as the governing board of
the municipal water corporation.
      (2)   The written appeal request shall set forth in detail:
         (a)   The extraordinary hardship or other unavoidable circumstances
whereby the delinquent bill cannot be fully paid within the allowed period;
         (b)   The specific relief requested; and
         (c)   The reason(s) that the person owing an unpaid water bill
believes that the adverse determination of the Clerk-Treasurer acting as
hearing officer was arbitrary or capricious.
      (3)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall consider such appeal at
its next scheduled meeting. Any contemplated discontinuation of water service
shall be deferred pending the determination of the appeal by the Board of
Public Works and Safety .
      (4)   The Board of Public Works and Safety in its appeal determination
may:
         (a)   Deny the appeal;
         (b)   Grant the appeal in whole or in part; and/or
         (c)   May require partial payment of the delinquent bill in return for
granting the extension.
      (5)   Upon denial of the appeal the delinquent user shall be given 48
hours notice of the appeal denial prior to the discontinuation of service.
   (I)   Water service disconnection date. If a water bill is not paid on or
before the close of business on the stated date of the disconnect notice,
usually the twenty-sixth day of the month, the water service of the customer is
subject to disconnection without additional notice. All water bills subject to
disconnection shall be disconnected by the city utility. A disconnect notice
shall be mailed the day after due date allowing ten days prior to disconnection
(see attached) to show customer appeal rights.
   (J)   Emergency hardship. A short term deferred payment plan and/or agreed
extended payment plan such making of will serve as notice of disconnect. The
remaining customers (medical or active military duty) shall receive a written,
door hanger, or a mail notice.
   (K)   A deferred water disconnect.
      (1)   A deferred water disconnect date due to an emergency hardship for a
three to a ten-day period by calling the billing office prior to disconnect. If
the customer fails to make a payment on such committed day, disconnect of
service shall occur immediately. If the customer fails to make a payment on the
committed date, the customer will not be allowed to request such a deferred
payment plan for 12 months following the committed date.
      (2)   A medical emergency which is requested by the customer or a third
party who is doing service for the account holder and supported by a medical
certificate from an Indiana-licensed physician, nurse practitioner, public
health officer, or a social service officer that certifies, in writing, that
disconnection of utility services are life-threatening to a customer or any
other permanent resident of the premises where services are rendered. A ten-day
deferred disconnect of services shall be allowed. Such requests need to be
prompt after written notice of disconnect. The request may be renewed for an
additional ten days supported by a medical certificate. This does not release
the customer from their responsibility of payment. Penalties shall not be added
during this period.
      (3)   An active military person (including National Guard or Reserves)
may request a 45-day deferred disconnect due to financial hardship when
required and supported by special military orders for special training or other
military operations. Also such a request may include an injury. Military
personnel, which are permanent residents of the premises where services are
rendered, may send a request in writing. Any orders or requests must be
reviewed only by the Clerk-Treasurer or Mayor. These orders or requests do not
release the customers from their responsibility of payment. No penalties shall
be added during this period.
         (a)   The billing office shall maintain a log of all deferred payments
and forward these to the Board of Public Works and safety monthly for review
and approval.
         (b)   The utility reserves the right to transfer any unpaid bill to
any other accounts a customer may have and disconnect service at any location
because of delinquencies if any bill goes unpaid for 45 days.
   (L)   Right to appeal. A customer may appeal any action taken by the Clerk-
Treasurer or if they wish to dispute disconnection, an extra high utility bill
(however bill will need to be paid), customer has a right to request a hearing
before the City Board of Public Works and Safety, during which you may be
represented in or by counsel or by any other person of your choosing. The
customer must file in writing a notice of appeal form during normal business
hours five days prior to the hearing. Normally, all hearings shall be held on
the second and fourth Tuesday at 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.23 RECONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Reconnection fee. The utility will charge a reconnection fee as shown
in the rate ordinance.
   (B)   Time to reconnect service. The utility will reconnect the service to
the customer when reasonably possible within one working day after the utility
has been requested to do so; provided, however, that the utility shall not be
required to reconnect the service until:
      (1)   The conditions, circumstances, or practices which caused the
disconnection have been corrected; and
      (2)   Payment of all outstanding charges, including, but not limited to,
any reconnect or returned check fees, owed the utility by the customer, and any
deposit has been made.
   (C)   Damages after reconnection of service. The utility is not responsible
for any damages once service is reconnected.
   (D)   Improper termination of service. If the utility terminates service in
violation of these rules, the service shall be restored as soon as possible at
no charge to the customer.
   (E)   Reconnection of discontinued or unused water service. Any water
service that has been discontinued or unused for a period of one year or more
will be required to apply for new water service. If, in the opinion of the
utility, a new service line and/or a new meter setup are required, these costs
will be the reasonability of the customer.
   (F)   Timing of disconnection. The city may not disconnect service unless it
is done between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., prevailing local time.
Disconnections under §
50.15 are not subject to this limitation. The city may not disconnect service
for non-payment on any day on which the city’s offices are closed to the
public, or after noon the day immediately preceding any day on which the city’s
offices are not open to the public.
   (G)   Notice. Notice is mailed the day after the due date normally the
sixteenth of the month.
      (1)   (a)   Service to any customer shall not be disconnected for a
violation of any rule or regulation of the city’s municipal water utility or
for the non-payment of a bill, except after seven days prior written notice to
the customer by either:
            1.   Mailing the notice to the residential customer at the address
shown on the records of the utility; or
            2.   Personal delivery of the notice to the residential customer or
a responsible member of his or her household at the address shown on the
records of the utility.
         (b)   No disconnect notice for nonpayment may be rendered prior to the
date on which the account becomes delinquent.
      (2)   The notice must be in language that is clear, concise, and easily
understandable to a layperson and shall state the following in separately
numbered large type or printed paragraphs:
         (a)   The date of proposed disconnection;
         (b)   The specific actual basis and reason for the proposed
disconnection;
         (c)   The telephone number of the city’s municipal water utility
office at which the customer may call during regular business hours in order to
question the proposed disconnection or seek information concerning his or her
rights; and
         (d)   A reference to the pamphlet or the copy of the rules or
information furnished to the customer about his or her rights with respect to
the city’s municipal utility service.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.24 APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS WHEN PAYMENT IS LESS THAN TOTAL BILLING.
   (A)   When a utility payment is received by the city from a customer and
that payment is less than the amount billed, the customer’s payments shall be
applied as follows.
      (1)   The payment shall be applied to payment on the trash account until
that account is fully paid.
      (2)   Second, any funds remaining in the customer’s payment, after the
water payments have been applied, shall next be applied towards the water
billing until that account is paid in full.
      (3)   Third, any funds remaining in the customer’s payment, after the
trash and water payments have been applied, shall be applied toward the
customer’s wastewater billing.
      (4)   Fourth, any funds remaining in the customer’s account, after the
trash, water, and wastewater payments have been applied, shall be applied
toward the customer’s stormwater account.
   (B)   The application of payments shall continue in all cases, except the
case where the customer has entered into a payment agreement. In the case of a
payment agreement, each payment is first applied to the most recent month’s
billing. Funds remaining after the most recent month’s billing is paid shall be
applied as described in division (A) above or per the specific terms of the
payment or promissory agreement.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.25 DELINQUENT CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Any customer whose bill remains unpaid at 4:00 p.m. on the sixteenth
day of the month (the delinquent date) shall be considered delinquent. Any
customer who is delinquent may be contacted by the city in an attempt to
collect payment for the delinquent bill. The city may also refer delinquent
customers to a collection agency or attorney for collection on a case-by-case
basis. Delinquent accounts are also subject to the filing of liens in
accordance with the city’s billing procedure.
   (B)   Delinquent accounts that have been filed as liens can no longer be
paid in the normal manner, but must be paid to the county in the manner
prescribed by the county for lien payments. Lien filings will include
reasonable collection and attorney fees.
   (C)   Delinquency may cause a utility deposit to be required. This procedure
is described in §
50.15 under the definition of deposit.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.26 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to establish any municipal
utility service or combination thereof shall make application for said service.
The application shall be on such form(s) as may now or hereinafter be
prescribed by the city.
   (B)   The application shall include the applicant’s name, spouse’s name,
service address, mailing address, landlord’s name, telephone number, and
personal identification number (e.g., Social Security number, driver’s license
number, and date of birth) or federal identification number (businesses) or
federal number, and signature of the party responsible for payment.
   (C)   Persons applying on behalf of others or acting as an agent for others
may provide the required information provided such agent agrees to assume
responsibility for the person, firm, or corporation upon whose behalf they are
applying. Each service location shall be considered a separate account. The
city may request to make a copy of the applicant’s driver’s license or other
government issued identification in order to confirm identity.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.27 DISPUTED UTILITY BILLS.
   (A)   A customer may request a face-to-face conference regarding any dispute
over a disputed utility bill or other service matter before the Board of Public
Works and Safety, or its designee, to hear such matters. All such matters will
be resolved in accordance with I.C. 8-1-2-103, I.C. 8-1.5-3.5, the written
polices of the city, and the judgement of the Common Council and/or the Board
of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   Only the Common Council and/or the Board of Public Works and Safety
has the ability to modify, change, or mitigate a utility bill.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.28 PROMISSORY AGREEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Any customer may request a face-to-face conference before the
Board of Public Works and Safety, to consider entering into a payment plan or
promissory agreement that identifies certain terms and conditions of a payment
plan that would cause a utility account to be made current.
      (2)   If a customer fails to make good on any term and/or condition
contained within the promissory agreement, other collection procedures may be
implemented immediately, including the termination of water service, the filing
of sewer liens, and/or the turning of the account over to a collection agency.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer will have the authority to temporarily approve
promissory agreements subject to later Board of Public Works and Safety final
approval.
   (C)   Promissory agreements will require payment of all unpaid utility
charges in equal installments over a period of no more than ten months.
   (D)   Promissory agreements will require the payment of all future utility
bills on time in addition to the promissory agreement payment.
   (E)   If the customer has not been disconnected, the promissory agreement
will require the payment of the promissory agreement fee and payment of the 10%
payment on the promissory agreement amount and the current month’s utility
bill, all on the next utility bill due date (usually the fifteenth of the
month).
   (F)   No interest will be charged on promissory agreements.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.29 ADJUSTMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   Billing period. The utility attempts to read meters on a monthly
basis; however, the utility reserves the right to read the meter on any basis
deemed appropriate by the utility. If a leak should occur during those times
that meters are not read, the customer is responsible for payment of the water
and wastewater charges based on the amount of water used subject to applicable
rates or charges.
   (B)   Meter error. If any meter shall be found to have a percentage of error
greater than that allowed by AWWA and IURC standards, the bill shall be
adjusted as follows.
      (1)   Meter error (customer overcharged). In cases of meter error where
the customer has been overcharged, the amount of the refund or credit to the
customer’s account shall be the amount in excess of the average charge since
the previous test, or one year, whichever period is shorter.
      (2)   Stopped or slow meters (customer undercharged).
         (a)   When the meter is stopped or slowed, the amount of the charge to
the customer shall be an amount estimated to be an average charge since the
previous test or one year, whichever period is shorter.
         (b)   The average charge shall be calculated on the basis of units
registered on the meter over corresponding periods either prior to or
subsequent to the period for which the meter is determined to be slow or
stopped.
         (c)   If this method is inconclusive or unjustifiable, the utility may
use another method to determine the appropriate charge.
   (C)   Other billing adjustments.
      (1)   All other billing errors may be adjusted to the known date of error
or for a period of one year, whichever period is shorter. In order to claim an
adjustment to a wastewater bill, the customer must apply in writing for the
adjustment.
      (2)   The claim must include the exact or estimated date that the leak
began, or copies of receipts for parts used to fix the leak. If this
information is not provided, the claim will not be processed. Adjustments will
only be made when the leak does not enter the wastewater system.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 50.30 SERVICE CHARGES.
   The following non-inclusive list of additional fees shall be charged for
services provided by the municipal utility.
   (A)   Returned check fees.
      (1)   There shall be a fee of $27.50 for all checks that are returned.
      (2)   For returned checks, the customer shall pay, by cash or money
order, the amount of the returned check(s) plus the corresponding returned
check fee.
      (3)   After two returned checks in any 12-month period, the customer
shall pay all current and future payments by cash or money order.
      (4)   In its pursuit of collection for return checks the city will follow
I.C. 26-2-7 and/or I.C. 34-24-3 which in certain cases allow the collection of
treble damages.
   (B)   Reconnection fee. Once water service is disconnected, an additional
service fee of $40 will be charged to the customer for the reconnection of
water service.
   (C)   Meter tampering. A $200 charge plus the cost to the city if any
repairs caused by the meter tampering will be billed in addition to the cost of
the estimated usage not recorded due to the meter tampering. Subsequent meter
tampering will cause the discontinuation of water service.
   (D)   Tap fee.
      (1)   The cost of initial customer tapping onto or connecting to the
city’s utility system shall be:
         (a)   Nine hundred dollars for five- eighths and three-quarter-inch
water; and
         (b)   Four hundred twenty-five dollars for five-eighths and three-
quarter-inch sewer.
      (2)   The fee for larger taps shall be the actual cost of making the
connection for other meter sizes but not less than the cost of the connection
for a five-eighths and three-quarter-inch meter.
Utility Taps
 Water Wastewater Stormwater
Utility Taps
             Water   Wastewater Stormwater
5/8” to 3/4$1,200
1”         $1,300
1 1/2”     $1,350
2”         $1,500*            $600
3”                 $700       $700
4”         $1,700* $800       $800
6”         $1,900* $900*      $1,000
8”                 $1,100*
10”                $1,300*
12”                $1,500*
Note:
* Required a drawing with the type of pipe, fitting, additional information
must be approved by the Board
 
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-8-2022; Ord. 8-2023, passed 7-25-2023; Ord. 20-2023,
passed 12-27-2023)
§ 50.31 GRINDER PUMPS.
   (A)   The Utility Superintendent shall maintain records of all pumps and
where all lines run, including size and location.
   (B)   The Billing Clerk shall ensure pumps are recorded within the system
billing file.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall approve the request of such
pumps, location, and size of pumpage line into the city system.
   (D)   The home owner shall be responsible for all maintenance and/or repair
from property to point in which line enters the city sewer system.
   (E)   City wastewater maps shall reflect such location of grinder pumps on
each site which they enter city wastewater system.
(Ord. 9-2022, passed 11-22-2022)
§ 50.32 MOBILE HOME COMMUNITIES.
   The following regulations and requirements shall apply to all mobile home
communities within the corporate limits of the city. Effective immediately upon
adoption of this section, the following provisions shall apply.
   (A)   MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY Hereinafter “community,” shall be defined as set
out in I.C. 16-41-27-5.
   (B)   Mobile home communities shall be permitted one master water meter, for
the entire community. Water meters and all water, sewer, and stormwater lines
beyond the entrance to the community and master meter and running to individual
lots within mobile home communities will be left in place and shall become the
property of the mobile home community. Henceforth, the city shall have no
further rights, duties, or responsibility as to said meters and lines, and the
duty to maintain, replace, remove, or service said meters and lines shall
become that of the mobile home community, and the city shall have no further
responsibilities related thereto beyond the entrance to the mobile home
community and the master meter.
   (C)   The city shall no longer issue invoices to individual lots within any
mobile home community for any water, sewer, stormwater, trash collection, or
fire protection fees, but will issue one invoice to the mobile home community
for the entire community, and it shall be the responsibility of the mobile home
community and its owner or owners to pay all said fees for the entire
community.
   (D)   The city will provide sufficient numbers of dumpsters for each mobile
home community to provide one centralized trash collection point, which the
city will access to provide trash collection services to each mobile home
community. Totes and dumpsters will not be provided to individual lots within
the mobile home community.
   (E)   All fees shall continue to be calculated as before the passage of this
section, based on factors such as the amount of water used and as to trash
removal, the number of residents occupying the mobile home community.
   (F)   Delinquent fees shall become the responsibility of the mobile home
community and its owners pursuant to applicable law.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 1-28-2020)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   State and federal requirements
   
51.003   Tampering with or damaging sewer equipment
   
51.004   New development to include sanitary and storm sewer systems
Sewer Use Regulations
   
51.015   Unlawful use of sewers
   
51.016   Permits
   
51.017   Illegal discharges into sewers
   
51.018   Pretreatment of industrial wastes
   
51.019   Unpolluted water
   
51.020   Industrial cooling water
   
51.021   Pertinent information on wastewater flows
   
51.022   Determination of wastewater strength
   
51.023   Interceptors
   
51.024   Notification of unusual flows
Rates and Charges; Billing
   
51.035   Definitions
   
51.036   User classifications
   
51.037   Rate schedule
   
51.038   Sewer service charges based on metered usage
   
51.039   Preparation of bills; adjustments
   
51.040   To whom charges are billed
   
51.041   When charges are due
   
51.042   Charges outside corporate limits
   
51.043   Charges to the city
Main Extension Policy
   
51.055   Main extension
   
51.056   When financed by refund agreement
   
51.057   Customers to contract to use service for three years
   
51.058   Right to change policy
Administration
   
51.070   Right of entry of city officials
   
51.071   Service application
   
51.072   Written contract
   
51.073   Building sewers
   
51.074   Legal action
Stormwater Program
   
51.085   Establishment
   
51.086   Stormwater fee
 
   
51.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Street cuts; permit required, see §
97.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days.
   BOARD.  The Board of Public Works and Safety.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN - SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN - STORM. A building drain which conveys stormwater
or other clearwater drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building to the public sewer or other
place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.)
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER - SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER - STORM. A building sewer which coveys stormwater or
other clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, ph, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permits if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants and in
fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term “substantial
degree” is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, corporation, municipality, or other governmental
agent which has agreed to pay for sewer service provided by the city.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the city.
    GARBAGE.  Solid waste from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale
produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid waste from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, though such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from “inflow.”)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to: roof leader, cellar, yard
and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges, drains
from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm
sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface run-off, street
wash waters, or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and is distinguishable from
“infiltration.”)
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the city, through its
Board of Public Works and Safety, to inspect and approve the installation of
building sewers and their connection to the public sewers system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of Pub. L. No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317
(a); or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Shall have the meaning as defined in the sewage rate
ordinance.
   OUTLET. Any outlet, natural or constructed, which is the point of final
discharge of sewage.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in the grams per liter of
solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group discharging any wastewater to the treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions,
(including polluted cooling water). The three most common types of SEWAGE are:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE.  Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer;
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the waste
from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water); and
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE.  The combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment, and processes to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours’
concentration or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and The Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, groundwater, or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
city, or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentration of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations,
as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. L. No. 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER.  Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550ºC for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.002 STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be, in
effect.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.003 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING SEWER EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 NEW DEVELOPMENT TO INCLUDE SANITARY AND STORM SEWER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All new development, subdivisions, apartment complexes, shopping
centers, hotels, restaurants, or any other commercial or industrial development
shall include adequate sanitary and storm sewer systems.
   (B)   If adequate public sewers do not exist, then the developer shall
extend or cause to be extended adequate public sewers. The Utility Department
must approve plans for any public sanitary sewer extension. All extensions must
be designed and constructed in accordance with the current requirements of the
Utility Department or the State Department of Environmental Management.
   (C)   Any sewer extensions accomplished without prior review and approval of
the Utility Department, and inspection during construction, shall be deemed an
illegal extension and, upon discovery, shall be promptly disconnected from the
sewerage system.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
51.999
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 51.015 UNLAWFUL USE OF SEWERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human excrement,
garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer or combined sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sump pumps, subsurface drainage, cooling
water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial process water. The city shall
require the removal of unpolluted wastewater collection or treatment facility
if such removal is cost-effective and in the best interests of all users of
those facilities. The homeowner will be assessed a penalty of $10 per day,
following the 30-day period given to disconnect, for every day he or she fails
to disconnect beyond the original 30-day notice. The homeowner will be charged
$50 for each correspondence from the city, or representatives of the city, such
as an attorney. This will be applied to legal/clerical costs incurred on the
city’s behalf.
   (C)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without specific
permission from the city.
   (D)   No new connection shall be made unless there is capacity available to
all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and the sewage treatment
plant, including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (E)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
city, any wastewater or other polluted water except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (G)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (H)   (1)   The owner of all houses, building, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby required at
his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities, and any other facilities producing sewage or similar
waste, with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, by the date specified in the official notice to do so, provided that
said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
      (2)   The city shall give the official notice by certified mail to the
owner of such property, at the address of the property, or at his or her last
known address, and the notice shall specify the date by which the owner must
have the facilities connected with the proper public sewer. The notice shall be
dated at least 90 days before the date for connection specified in the official
notice. If notice by certified mail cannot be obtained, the city shall give the
official notice by service by sheriff or publication.
   (I)   A penalty for failure to connect, following the 90-day period
established, will be $25 per day. A clerical/legal fee of $50 each will be
charged or recorded for each correspondence sent to the household/owner. The
owner will be ultimately held responsible for fees associated with failure to
connect. The city may discontinue water service to the houses, buildings, or
properties used for human occupancy, should there be noncompliance for over 90
days beyond the established connection deadline.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 PERMITS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from a duly authorized agent.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service, and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the city.
      (1)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Inspector.
      (2)   A permit fee of $275, and an inspection fee of $75, shall be
charged for a residential or commercial building. A permit fee of four hundred
twenty-five dollars ($475), and an inspection fee of $75 shall be charged for
an industrial building. All fees shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the
time application is filed.
   (C)   No owner or occupant of any real property shall tap or drain either
directly or indirectly into any public sewer until a sewer tap permit has been
obtained and he or she has satisfied his or her obligation to pay all
assessments, reimbursements, or pro rata shares of sewer extension costs laid
against the property for public sewers installed to serve it.
   (D)   Tap permits shall be obtained from the Utility Department and shall be
issued only to sewer tap contractors that are approved by the Board of Public
Works and Safety. After making each sewer tap and building sewer installation,
the tap contractor shall notify the Utility Department at least three hours in
advance so that the tap and building sewer can be inspected and approved before
the excavation is back-filled. All sewer permits shall be valid for one year
after date of issue shown on the permit. If work is not completed in this year,
it shall be necessary to secure a new permit.
   (E)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot, and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the said Inspector, to meet the
current code requirements for building sewers.
   (H)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointly
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.P. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow in the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (J)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to public sanitary sewer
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (L)   (1)   The building sewer shall generally enter the main or lateral by
way of an existing wye or tee. In the event of the absence of a wye or tee, the
connection to the sewer main or lateral shall be made by one of the methods
indicted below:
         (a)   Installation of a manhole;
         (b)   Circular saw-cut of sewer main by proper tools (sewer tap
machine or similar), and proper installation of hub wye saddle or hub tee
saddle, in accordance with the manufacturer specifications; or
         (c)   Use of a pipe cutter to neatly and accurately cut out the
desired length of pipe for insertion of proper fitting. Use of “bank seal”
couplings or similar couplings with stainless steel shear rings and clamps to
fasten the inserted fitting and hold it firmly in place. The manufacturer’s
recommendations for installation shall be followed.
      (2)   If another method is desired, a detailed plan shall be submitted
for review and must be approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety before
the connection is made. Indiscriminate breaking of the sewer main pipe is not
permitted.
      (3)   Connection of the building sewer to the wye or tee shall be made
with a flexible type water-tight connection. Acceptable connections are Clow
Corporation’s Bank seal Rubber Ring Adapters, Bank Seal couplings, or approved
equal.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation must be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (N)   Any tap or building sewer installation not made in accordance with the
foregoing provisions shall be deemed an illegal installation and upon
discovery, shall be promptly disconnected at the expense of the property owner
and shall remain disconnected until the provisions of this section have been
complied with. The City Superintendent, prior to covering, must approve
repairs.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 ILLEGAL DISCHARGES INTO SEWERS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works, or that interferes with any
treatment process; or
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tars,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers, grease, and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
      (2)   When the Utility Department determines that interceptors or trap
are needed to protect the sewer system from substances occurring in a
customer’s discharge, then such traps shall be maintained by the customer so
that none of such substances can be carried over into the public sewers. All
traps shall meet the Utility Department standards as to construction, location,
and installation.
       (3)   The person responsible for such discharge shall be billed and
shall pay for the expenses incurred by the Utility Department in cleaning out,
repairing, or rebuilding the sewer. If the responsible person cannot be
determined, then the expense shall be assessed to the property owner.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion
of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flow and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewer treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF or 65ºC;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/1 or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32º and 150ºF or 0º and
65ºC;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourth
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent.
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which maybe
established by the Superintendent as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentrations as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as. but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (C)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (B) above of this section,
and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect
upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
         (a)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase
in discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain
prior approval for discharges;
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the city;
         (c)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage as defined;
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any slug loads or excessive that may be harmful to the treatment works;
or
         (e)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (D)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (E)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times. Agents of the city, the state water pollution control agencies,
and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing.
   (F)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this section shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole, except for application for NPDES permits and
report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and regulation
adopted by the USEPA published in the Federal Register October 16, 1973, (38
C.F.R. part 20758) and any subsequent revisions subject to approval of the
city. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb, and property. The particular analysis involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab sample.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries
prior to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the
Rules and Regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (USEPA) and published in the Federal Register on August 25, 1978, (43
C.F.R. part 23), and Federal Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for
Analysis of Pollutants published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973,
(40 C.F.R. part 136), in addition to any more stringent requirements
established by the city, and any subsequent state or federal guidelines and
rules and regulations.
   (B)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the city
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval, in
writing, is granted. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective periodic inspection by
the city to determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance
with the applicable federal, state, and local laws and permits. The owner shall
maintain operating records of the influent and effluent to show the performance
of the treatment facilities and for comparison against city monitoring records.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.019 UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems, or
swimming pools, shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the city. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the city and by the state.
Where a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural sewer is not available, such
unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval
by the city.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.020 INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
51.019.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.021 PERTINENT INFORMATION ON WASTEWATER FLOWS.
   The city may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows characteristics.
Such measurements, tests, and analyses shall be made at the users’ expense. If
made by the city, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the
option of the city.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.022 DETERMINATION OF WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic establishment
of charges provided for in the rate ordinance, from samplings taken at the
aforementioned structure at any period of time and of such duration and in such
manner as the city may elect, or, at any place mutually agreed upon between the
user and the city. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis by the user
may also be used for determination of charges after verification by the city.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.023 INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinon of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or flammable wastes, sand, and other
harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors or traps will not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city and shall be located
so as to be ready accessible for cleaning and inspection. They shall be
constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme
change in temperatures and shall be of substantial construction, be gas-tight,
water-tight, and equipped with easily removable covers. Where installed, all
grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained by the owner,
at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.024 NOTIFICATION OF UNUSUAL FLOWS.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the city of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002) Penalty, see §
51.999
RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING
§ 51.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§
51.036 and
51.037, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. Has the same meaning as that set forth in
§
51.001 of this chapter.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of “normal
domestic sewage.”
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The wastewater discharged from industrial, trade, or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. For the purpose of determining surcharges,
wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as follows:
      (1)   BOD of not more than 250 milligrams per liter;
      (2)   Suspended solids of not more than 250 milligrams per liter; and
      (3)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic or
sanitary conveniences or both as distinct from industrial processes.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. Has the same
meaning as that set forth in §
51.001 of this chapter.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Includes all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all federal, state, and local requirements. The term also includes
replacement costs.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES.  Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges, except user charges, debt service charges, and
excessive strength surcharges.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances that are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works for which those works were designed and constructed.
   SEWAGE. Has the same meaning as that set forth in §
51.001 of this chapter.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. This chapter.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Has the same meaning as that set forth in §
51.001 of this chapter.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on the users of the wastewater treatment works
for the cost of operation and maintenance of those works pursuant to § 204(b)
of Pub. L. No. 92-500.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or dis charge similarities, that
is, residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
user charge system.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service which, based on a determination by the city,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial wastes to a publicly-owned treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, or educational function which, based on a determination
by the city, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, specifically
including all dwelling units.
(1986 Code, § 36-9-23-1) (Ord. 8-1957, passed 6-13-1957; Ord. 10-1957, passed
7-25-1957; Ord. 15-1957, passed 11-14-1957; Ord. 1-1961, passed 6-8-1961; Ord.
2-1961, passed 6-22-1961; Ord. passed 11-26-1963; Ord. 1-1973, passed 5-23-
1973; Ord. 1-1981, passed 7-22-1981; Ord. 6-1981, passed 10-14-1981; Ord. 1-
1984, passed 3-13-1984; Ord. 2-1984, passed 3-27-1984; Ord. 3-1984, passed 3-
27-1984)
§ 51.036 USER CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by the city sewage works shall
be charged for the service provided. These charges shall be established for
each user class so that the sewage works shall recover, from each user and user
class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works in terms
of volume and load. User charges shall be levied to defray the cost of
operation, maintenance, and replacement of the treatment works. User charges
shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges shall be subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
the United States Environmental Protection Agency, published in the Federal
Register on September 27, 1978, (43 C.F.R. part 44022). Replacement costs,
which are recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the
expected service life of the sewage works plant and equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of sewage treatment work users are:
 
Class I: 1.   Commercial
        2.   Governmental
        3.   Industrial
        4.   Institutional
        5.   Residential
        6.   Wholesale residential
 
(1986 Code, § 36-9-23-1) (Ord. 8-1957, passed 6-13-1957; Ord. 10-1957, passed
7-25-1957; Ord. 15-1957, passed 11-14-1957; Ord. 1-1961, passed 6-8-1961; Ord.
2-1961, passed 6-22-1961; Ord. passed 11-26-1963; Ord. 1-1973, passed 5-23-
1973; Ord. 1-1981, passed 7-22-1981; Ord. 6-1981, passed 10-14-1981; Ord. 1-
1984, passed 3-13-1984; Ord. 2-1984, passed 3-27-1984; Ord. 3-1984, passed 3-
27-1984)
§ 51.037 RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The city shall collect charges for the use and services rendered by
the sewage works to each lot, parcel of real estate, or building that is
connected to the city sanitary system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, water, or other liquids, directly or indirectly, into the
city sanitary sewerage system. The rates and charges shall include user
charges, debt service costs, excessive strength surcharges, and other service
charges. The rates and charges shall be payable as set forth in this section
and shall be in amounts determined as follows.
   (B)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water
used on or in the property or premises subject to those rates and charges, as
determined by equivalent single-family dwelling units. Sewage service bills
shall be rendered once each month, or for a period equaling a month. The
schedule on which those rates and charges shall be determined shall be:
      (1)   All Class I Users. Class 1 users shall be charged at the discretion
of the Common Council; the rates below are subject to change.
 User Charge Debt Service Total
                                          User Charge Debt Service Total
Treatment rate per 1,000 gallons of usage $10.25      $1.60        $11.85
per month
Plus                                         
Base rate per month:                         
   Water Meter Size                       
5/8-inch to 3/4-inch                      $13.79      $12.22       $26.01
1 inch                                    $19.63      $21.59       $41.22
1-1/4 inches                              $32.00      $35.34       $67.34
1-1/2 inches                              $44.30      $48.88       $93.18
2 inches                                  $78.76      $86.87       $165.63
3 inches                                  $177.23     $195.63      $372.86
4 inches                                  $315.00     $347.68      $662.68
6 inches                                  $708.93     $782.52      $1,491.45
 
       (2)   Unmetered users. For users of the sewage works that are unmetered
water users or if accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge
shall be determined by equivalent single-family dwelling units, except as
herein provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month, or for
a period equaling a month. The schedule on which the rates and charges shall be
determined is as follows:
 
                               Monthly Rate
                                User Charge Debt Service Total
Residential:
   Single-family residence/un$65.04      $20.22       $85.26
 
      (3)   White Oaks Mobile Home Park rates. The White Oaks Mobile Home Park
shall be charged sewage rates according to the following schedule:
         Treatment rate per 1,000 gallons of usage per month:   $9.65.
      (4)   City subject to rates. The city shall be subject to the rates and
charges set forth in this section, or to charges and rates established in
harmony with it.
      (5)   Cost recovery. To recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes,
the city shall charge the user not less than $50 per sample or cost thereof.
This charge shall be reviewed on the same basis as all other rates and charges
in this section.
(1986 Code, § 36-9-23-1) (Ord. 8-1957, passed 6-13-1957; Ord. 10-1957, passed
7-25-1957; Ord. 15-1957, passed 11-14-1957; Ord. 1-1961, passed 6-8-1961; Ord.
2-1961, passed 6-22-1961; Ord. passed 11-26-1963; Ord. 1-1973, passed 5-23-
1973; Ord. 1-1981, passed 7-22-1981; Ord. 6-1981, passed 10-14-1981; Ord. 1-
1984, passed 3-13-1984; Ord. 2-1984, passed 3-27-1984; Ord. 3-1984, passed 3-
27-1984; Ord. 7-1993, passed - -1993; Ord. 7-1994, passed 10-25-1994; Ord. 9-
1994, passed 11-22-1994; Ord. 11-1994, passed 12-20-1994; Ord. 12-1994, passed
12-20-1994; Ord. 2-1997, passed 3-8-1997; 5-2003, passed 12-23-2003; Ord. 4-
2009, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 5-2009, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 14-2013, passed
11-12-2013; Ord. 15-2013, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 51.038 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES BASED ON METERED USAGE.
   (A)   The charges made for sewage service rendered to each lot, parcel of
real estate, or building having any connection with the sewer system or
otherwise discharging sewage into that system either directly, shall be based
upon the quantity of water entering the public sewers after being used in or on
the property, as the quantity is measured by the water meter or meters in use
by the water utility except as herein provided.
   (B)   Where the property obtains any part or all of the water used from
source other than the city’s water utility, the owner or the tenant may be
required by the utility to install and maintain at his or her own expense a
meter or meters acceptable to the utility for the purpose of measuring the
quantity of water obtained from these other sources or the utility may
determine the quantity of such water by whatever means and methods it may find
practicable, the property owner, in the event of a pulled meter, will be billed
the minimum usage of sewage, zero to 500 gallons (water).
   (C)   The utility may require an owner, tenant, or business to install and
maintain at their expense an approved device to directly measure the quantity
of waste discharged to the sewerage system if these quantities cannot otherwise
be determined from the metered water consumption records. Stormwater would be
considered as an undetermined source. The utility shall inspect and approve
such installation and no such metering device, once installed, shall be removed
without the approval of the utility.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.039 PREPARATION OF BILLS; ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety grants the authority of making
adjustments for sewer charges not to exceed $25 for water leaks and the filling
of swimming pools to the Clerk-Treasurer, provided said leaks do not enter into
the sanitary sewer system. All adjustments above $25 shall be approved or
denied by the Board of Public Works and Safety in a regular scheduled meeting.
The Utility Superintendent must verify there is a leak that is within the Board
of Public Works and Safety’s guidelines and with information from the customer,
and the Utility Superintendent shall make a recommendation for an adjustment to
the Clerk-Treasurer or to the Board on an individual basis. The customer must
have the leaks fixed and the Utility Superintendent must verify that the leak
(s) have been fixed before an adjustment can be made.
   (B)   A customer shall receive only one adjustment for an approved leak per
calendar year. A customer shall receive only one adjustment for filling a
swimming pool per calendar year.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   When the Utility Superintendent determines that the city created a
customer’s leak, the Clerk-Treasurer shall adjust the customer’s bill for
sewage charges for the month(s) that such a leak existed even if the water
entered into the sanitary sewer. An adjustment will be based on the three
months of sewage usage prior to the leak. If the city is the cause of the leak,
adjustments will be made whenever necessary.
      (2)   A customer may make a request for an adjustment to their sewer
charge at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Public Works and Safety
for any reason and/or for any amount. The Board’s decision shall be final. In
order for the city to grant an adjustment, the customer must first provide the
Utility Superintendent with a receipt to show that a repair to the leak has
actually been made or other proof to show that a repair to the leak has
actually been made, and the Utility Superintendent must verify that the leak
has been fixed before an adjustment can be made.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002; Ord. 2-2003, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 51.040 TO WHOM CHARGES ARE BILLED.
   (A)   The charges for sewer service shall be billed to the person receiving
such service unless, by contract with the utility, another person assumes such
responsibility.
   (B)   If a tenant is billed, the owner shall in no way be relieved of
liability in the event the tenant, as herein required, does not make payment,
such owner shall have the right to examine the utility’s collection records
during regular business hours to ascertain whether such charges have been paid.
When a tenant moves from a property, the owner shall become responsible for the
minimum sewage costs while said property is vacant.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.041 WHEN CHARGES ARE DUE.
   Charges for sewer service shall be due and payable on or before the
fifteenth of the month, a late fee will be charged after the fifteenth. The
bill shall be considered delinquent after ten days past the due date.
   (A)   Collection by shutting off water service.
      (1)   Where the property having a delinquent sewer account is served by
the Water Utility, the utility may, after mailing a written notice at least ten
days in advance to the water customer and to the property owner, shut off water
service to the property.
      (2)   The water service shall not be turned back on until delinquent
service charges and the costs of turning water service off and back on have
been paid.
   (B)   Collection through tax duplicate.
      (1)   As provided by the state law, delinquent sewer service charges may
be made a lien against the property served through certification to the Auditor
and to the Recorder of Grant County.
      (2)   Such case, the delinquent service charges, together with a
mandatory penalty of 10%, shall be placed on the tax duplicate and be collected
in the same manner as regular taxes and assessments are collected.
   (C)   Collection discontinue service. If the customer’s bill remains unpaid
for a period of 60 days after the date of the final bill or the date of the
discontinuance of service, the amount of such bill will be deducted from the
deposit, and the balance, if any, will be remitted to the depositor.
   (D)   Collection through court actions. In addition to the foregoing
remedies, the utility shall have the right to bring a civil action to recover
any delinquent charges together with penalty of the per cent and a reasonable
attorney’s fee.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.042 CHARGES OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Charges for sewer service rendered to individual households situated outside
the corporate limits of the city shall be the same as the basic charges
established for residents within the corporate limits. Charges for sewer
service to businesses and manufacturers outside the corporate limits shall be
set by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.043 CHARGES TO THE CITY.
   The city shall be subject to the same rates and charges herein established
for other persons.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
MAIN EXTENSION POLICY
§ 51.055 MAIN EXTENSION.
   (A)   The policy of the Board of Public Works and Safety covering a sewer
main extension requested by a party or parties desiring service from the
utility required such party or parties to pay for the cost of the extension.
This policy intends to place the cost of the installation of local sewer mains
upon the owners of the properties benefited.
   (B)   Large main, interceptors, and relief sewers will be paid for the
utility providing funds are available. (Note: A LOCAL SEWER shall mean one
which by its size and character, is designed and intended to supply sanitary
sewer service with adequate capacity for peak flows, only for properties
abutting the street, alley, easement, or other public land in which the sewer
is laid but which is not designed and intended to serve collateral sewers
necessary for non-abutting properties.)
   (C)   This extension policy shall be set forth as follows.
      (1)   Free extensions. The utility will upon written request for service
from a prospective group of prospective customers located in the same
neighborhood, make free of charge an extension necessary to give service to the
petitioning prospective customers when the total estimated revenue for a period
of six years, from the prospective customer or customers is approximately equal
to the cost of the extension; provided, however that in the judgment of the
utility, the prospects are that the patronage or demand for sewer service will
be of such permanency as to warrant the expenditure involved, providing the
utility has such funds available.
      (2)   Extension above free limit. If the extension required in order to
furnish service at any point within the corporate limits of the city, or for
any adjacent suburb of said city, is greater than the free extension specified
herein, such an extension shall be made under the following conditions:
         (a)   Petition for service. Upon the presentation of a written
petition for sewer service by an interested person or persons, the utility will
enter into an agreement with said petitioners covering the necessary main
extension, describing the installation, the method of apportioning such costs
among the petitioners, the total estimated cost if possible and relevant facts
and undertakings, said agreement shall contain a statement by the petitioners
that they are willing to pay their proportionate share of the main extension if
the project is constructed. Detailed engineering design will not proceed if the
petitioners do not agree to pay the necessary cost of the extension over and
above the free limit as described herein. The petition is good for one year. An
extension of time may be requested if necessary.
         (b)   Engineering and detailed cost estimate. When the petitioners
agree in writing to pay their proportionate share of the main extension, the
utility will conduct the necessary field survey work and engineering design
resulting in a detailed engineer estimate of the cost of the project. Based
upon the engineers’ estimate, the project cost will be spread proportionately
between the petitioner or petitioners.
         (c)   Contract for service. Upon completion of the engineers’
estimate, the utility will enter into a sewer main extension contract with said
petitioners which shall include a description of the installation, the
estimated cost, the method of apportioning such costs among the petitioners,
arrangement for payment and other relevant facts and undertaking.
         (d)   Initial deposit. Prior to advertising for bids or starting
construction as the case may be, the petitioners will be required to deposit
their share of the main extension with the utility. The total initial deposit
may be made in a cash payment or it may be made by an irrevocable letter of
credit acceptable to the utility and issued by a national banking association
or a bank chartered under the laws of the state or secured in any other manner
which is mutually acceptable to the parties and which guarantees payment of the
deposit immediately upon completion of construction of the extension.
         (e)   Cost basis. The amount to be paid by petitioners for main
extension shall be the total costs of contractual labor and expense, utility
labor and expense, material (including handling charges and hauling costs),
inspection, testing, overhead, and engineering. Where feasible, petitioners
may, by agreement with the utility, furnish all or part of the foregoing cost
elements, except inspection and testing; provided, however, that all such cost
elements furnished conform to the standards of the utility and that the utility
be given certified statements of the actual costs of such elements paid for by
the petitioners.
         (f)   Engineering and over-sizing.
            1.   Main extension design and specifications shall either be
prepared by the Utility Department or be approved by the Utility Department
before installation when done by others. No pipe size smaller than that
required giving such party adequate sewer service or less than eight inches in
diameter shall be used.
            2.   If the design for future use or other engineering
considerations indicate the need for a sewer main larger than eight inches,
then the utility will assume the cost for over-sizing provided funds are
available.
            3.   The computation of cost, either actual or estimated, shall be
based on an eight-inch main, unless a larger main as determined by the utility,
in which event the cost, estimated or actual, shall be based on the main
required.
         (g)   Ownership of mains. After completion and acceptance by the
utility, the sewer main extension shall become the property of and shall be
maintained by the utility. The utility may connect additional sewer mains to an
extension without incurring any financial obligation to persons sharing the
cost of the first extension.
         (h)   Refund provision. The contract between the utility and the
original petitioners shall provide that any person who did not share the
original cost of the extension and who wishes to use the extension within a
period of 15 years from the date of the acceptance of such extension shall be
required to pay a fair and proportionate share of the original cost of the
extension.
         (i)   Exclusion of new subdivisions. New subdivisions will be excluded
from eligibility agreements. The developer shall pay the entire cost of the
necessary sewer main construction and recover the cost in the lot price. Sewer
main extensions from the terminus of existing sewer mains to the subdivision,
which would be subject to future connections, are eligible for refund
agreements.
         (j)   Recording extension contracts. In order to ensure collection of
share and connection charges for those providing funds for sewer main
installations, the utility shall file the original sewer main extension
contracts with the Recorder of Grant County, Indiana.
         (k)   Waiver of protest to annexation.
            1.   Petitioners for sewer main extensions and sewer service
outside the corporate limits of the city will be required to execute a written
agreement that the owner and his or her successors waive any right to
remonstrate against or otherwise object to, interfere with, or oppose, any
pending or future annexation by the city as a condition of receiving said sewer
main extension and sewer service.
            2.   This document shall be recorded and cross referenced to the
property deed by the Utility Department.
         (l)   Lateral extensions.  
            1.   The utility may connect additional sewer mains to an extension
without incurring any financial obligations to persons sharing the cost of the
first extension. However, the utility will not permit a prospective customer
whose property is contiguous to the first extension to obtain service for an
additional extension installed laterally from said first extension unless the
customer pays a proportionate share of the first extension.
            2.   The utility shall collect in advance from the owner of such
property a service connection charge as follows:
 
Single-family residences                  $450
6-inch connections (except single-family) $900
8-inch connections                        $1,800
 
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.056 WHEN FINANCED BY REFUND AGREEMENT.
   When an applicant for sewer service will be connected to a sewer main which
has not been financed by a refund agreement, or by the abutting property
owners, or any other individual or group of individuals, such applicant shall
pay to the utility a connection charge as established by the Board of Public
Works and Safety and as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.057 CUSTOMERS TO CONTRACT TO USE SERVICE FOR THREE YEARS.
   The utility shall not be required to make extensions under §
51.055 unless the customers initially to be served by such extension shall
contract to use the service for a period of three years.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.058 RIGHT TO CHANGE POLICY.
   None of the above rules and regulations shall prevent the Board of Public
Works and Safety from extending sewer lines under a different policy so long as
the public interest is thereby served.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.070 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector, and other duly authorized employees of
the city bearing power credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewer or waterways of facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees. The city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
51.017(E).
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.071 SERVICE APPLICATION.
   A written service application or a properly executed contract will be
required from a prospective customer (including a contractor or a builder)
before the Sewer Department will supply service. The Sewer Department shall
have the right to reject an application for any valid reason. Where unusual
construction or equipment expense will be involved in furnishing the service,
the Sewer Department may require the contract to be for an appropriate period
of time specified by the Sewer Department when the contract is executed.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.072 WRITTEN CONTRACT.
   No promises, agreements, or representations by any agent of the Sewer
Department shall be binding upon the Sewer Department unless they have been
incorporated in written contact signed and approved by an agent of the Sewer
Department authorized to sign such contact on behalf of the Sewer Department.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.073 BUILDING SEWERS.
   A building sewer shall not cross the property of another private owner
unless such private owner has granted an easement for such building sewer. The
said easement shall be cross-referenced to, and follow the property of, the
grantor and be duly recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
§ 51.074 LEGAL ACTION.
   (A)   Any differences that may arise between users and officials of the
sewage works that cannot be resolved at that level may be appealed to the
Common Council.
   (B)   This shall not prevent the city, at any time, from taking legal action
needed to enforce its ordinance or apply to the circuit or superior courts to
compel a connection, as set forth in §
51.999, or delay the city in taking such action immediately after the 90-day
notice period has elapsed under §
51.015(H).
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
STORMWATER PROGRAM
§ 51.085 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Common Council hereby establishes a stormwater fee that can
provide for the collection, drainage, and disposal of storm and surface water,
and presents the cost of doing so.
   (B)   The city shall create a Department of Stormwater to provide for
collection of such fees and managed by the Board of Public Works and Safety,
known as controlling body of the city departments, and based upon I.C. 8-1.5-5-
7.
   (C)   All territory within the corporate boundaries of the city shall be
assessed and collection of a stormwater user fee be uniform for all residential
properties located within the district and all non-residential properties
(apartment complexes, commercial buildings, industrial, schools, and churches)
shall not be less than one ERU fee.
   (D)   The monthly stormwater user fee for all unimproved property located
within the district shall be the product of the ERU 3,500 multiplies by 0.33,
but no less than half of each ERU fee.
   (E)   All property owners, residents, or non- residents, and unimproved
areas within the boundaries of the city shall be charged a stormwater user fee
on all owned property regardless of whether a particular property or an
unimproved property owner contribute to the city stormwater runoff or whether
property is vacant or is unoccupied.
(Ord. 13-2019, passed 12-23-2019)
§ 51.086 STORMWATER FEE.
   (A)   If the monthly stormwater user fee is not paid by the due date, as
stated on the Department’s fee invoice, which may be combined with and made a
part of the city billing issued, a late charge of 10% shall be assessed, or
other collection options of a lien filing and any other cost of collection, if
any including reasonable attorney’s fees.
   (B)   No adjustment to the stormwater fee may be made unless in error of
billing.
   (C)   This section went into full force and effect January 2020, or will as
the billing vendor can install program.
   (D)   Customers have the right to appeal in accordance to the utilities
appeal process under §§
50.15 through
50.30.
   (E)   (1)   The stormwater fee helps fund the city’s drainage projects,
storm sewer maintenance, stormwater program, and new stormsewer construction.
      (2)   The stormwater fee was adopted to provide a perpetual, dedicated
source of funding. The chart below shows the stormwater rates effective as of
January 2020. On January 1 each year after, rates will automatically increase
by 5% from the previous year’s fee.
 
Property Type              Equivalent Residential Monthly Fee
                           Unit (ERU)
Multi-family (per dwelling 1                      $2
unit)
Non-residential
(apartments complex,
commercial, schools,       Impervious area 3,500  $2 x ERU (but no less than
churches, industrial, tax-                        $2, unless unimproved)
exempt properties, and
agricultural)
Single-family residence
(residential or            1                      $2
agricultural)
Unimproved Properties ($3
per square foot of         0.33                   $1
impervious, applies to all
property types)
Note:
* Non-residential properties that have greater than 300 square feet and less
than 3,500 square feet will be charged a minimum of $2, or equivalent to one
ERU.
 
      (1)   Non-residential example: Property containing 7,000 square feet
would be divided by 3,500 (2 ERUs) and then multiplied by $2 to get the total
monthly amount of $4.
      (2)   Apartment fee billings: Apartment complexes are considered non-
residential, so the fee for the overall complex will vary based on the non-
residential fee calculation. The fee will be added to the main complex utility
billing account. Apartment residents should contact their apartment office to
determine how this fee will be applied.
(Ord. 13-2019, passed 12-23-2019)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
51.070, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable lime limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations. For any violation of §
51.015(H), the official in §
51.015(H) shall serve notice under this provision.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above, shall be guilty of a violation and on
conviction thereof shall be lined in the amount not exceeding $2,500 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   With regard to violations of §
51.015(H), any person described in §
51.015(H) who fails to install the described facilities and connect the
property to the public sewer after the final date specified in the official
notice for such connection, shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter, and
shall be fined at the rate of $25 for a violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   The city shall further have the right to apply to the circuit or a
superior court of the county, to require a connection under this section, in
addition to any conviction for an ordinance violation set forth above. All cost
of the action and reasonable attorney fees of the municipality shall be
assessed against the property owner for such an action. All such fines,
penalties, costs, and fees may become a lien against the property, in accord
with state law.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 4-23-2002)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Removing municipal water utility from jurisdiction of State Utility
Regulatory Commission
   
52.02   Rates
Water Use Rules
   
52.15   Definitions
   
52.16   Rules and regulations on file
   
52.17   Written application or contract required
   
52.18   Modification of contract
   
52.19   Assignment of contract
   
52.20   Deposits
   
52.21   Turning on water service
   
52.22   Payment of bills
   
52.23   Discontinuance of service
   
52.24   Service applications
   
52.25   Service connection
   
52.26   Maintenance of service pipes and meter boxes
   
52.27   Inside piping and service lines
   
52.28   Cross-connection
   
52.29   Use of booster pump
   
52.30   Access to premises
   
52.31   Metering
   
52.32   Basis for billing
   
52.33   Denial or discontinuance of service for cause
   
52.34   Notification of load increase
   
52.35   Resale of water
   
52.36   Private fire protection service
   
52.37   Interruption of service
   
52.38   Water main extension policy
   
52.39   Obtaining a permit
   
52.40   Service charge
   
52.41   Abandoned service lines
   
52.42   Inability to read meter
   
52.43   Temporary water service
   
52.44   Swimming pools
   
52.45   After hours work
   
52.46   Right to change policy
   
52.47   Appeal and requests
   
52.48   Water rationing emergency
   
52.49   Tax exempt status
   
52.50   Administrative codes
   
52.51   Role of the Clerk-Treasurer
   
Appendix A: Schedule of Water Rates for Customers Inside Corporate Boundaries
   
Appendix B: Schedule of Water Rates for Customers Outside Corporate Boundaries
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 REMOVING MUNICIPAL WATER UTILITY FROM JURISDICTION OF STATE UTILITY
REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   The Common Council hereby determines to remove the waterworks from the
jurisdiction of the State Utility Regulatory Commission pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-
3-9.1.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 6-27-2000)
§ 52.02 RATES.
   (A)   The rates and charges of the city’s waterworks shall be the rates as
shown in Appendix A at the end of this chapter. These rates and charges will be
implemented in two phases, Phase 1 and Phase 2. The Phase 1 rates became
effective November 28, 2023. Phase 2 rates will be effective for January 1,
2025.
   (B)   The Common Council finds that the rates and charges, as adopted, are
nondiscriminatory, reasonable, equitable, and just, and are necessary to
produce sufficient revenue to:
      (1)   Pay all the legal and other necessary expenses incident to the
operation of the utility, including:
         (a)   Maintenance costs;
         (b)   Operating charges;
         (c)   Upkeep;
         (d)   Repairs;
         (e)   Depreciation;
         (f)   Interest charges on bond or other obligations, including leases;
and
         (g)   Costs associated with the acquisition of utility property under
I.C. 8-1.5-2.
      (2)   Provide a sinking fund for the liquidation of bonds or other
obligations, including leases;
      (3)   Provide a debt service reserve for bonds or other obligations,
including leases, in an amount established by the municipality, not to exceed
the maximum annual debt service on the bonds or obligations or the maximum
annual lease rentals;
      (4)   Provide adequate money for working capital;
      (5)   Provide adequate money for making extensions and replacements to
the extent not provided for through depreciations;
      (6)   Provide money for the payment of any taxes that may be assessed
against the utilities; and
      (7)   Provide money to the municipality for taxes that would be due to
the municipality on the utility property were it privately owned.
   (C)   The Common Council hereby authorizes and directs the appropriate
officials and representatives of the city to take all necessary actions to
implement, bill, and collect the rates and charges in the manner described in
division (A) above, as approved and adopted herein, following the date of final
adoption of this section.
(Ord. 14-2023, passed 11-28-2023)
WATER USE RULES
§ 52.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD.  The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city, or any duly
authorized officials acting on its behalf; the administrative governing body of
the city’s public utilities.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, corporation, municipality, or other government
agent who has an application approved and is responsible for the water bill.
      (1)   Application for water service where the premises are occupied by a
tenant, the utility requires, based upon information on the application, the
owner and/or management company (who’s name has been furnished on the landlord
registry) shall furnish a rental agreement and such agreement shall state that
the tenant is responsible for each charge of water, wastewater, stormwater, and
sanitation, including fire protection. The billing clerk is responsible, along
with the Utility Superintendent, to verify that all information on the
application is correct and that the rental agreement has required information.
Such must be clearly stated in a rental agreement, ownership, it shall be
verified by checking with the County Recorder’s office, which shall match the
information on the agreement form.
      (2)   In cases where the tenant is receiving a city utility bill, both
the tenant and the real property owner shall follow all required city utility
ordinances.
      (3)   Any owner of rental property shall be registered as a landlord in
the city.
      (4)   In some situations, a renter and landlord may be on file as a
customer, for some properties.
   DEPOSITS. Money placed to entrust as a pledge of payment of utilities, where
such is used or not and remain on file as long as the customer has said
utility.
   MASTER METER. One water meter, normally five-eighths’ by three-fourths’ of
an inch, or one inch, serving more than one residential unit with one meter.
   NON-RECURRING CHARGES. A cost that is set within the rate study/ordinance,
or the ordinance reflecting such cost.
   PREMISES. A dwelling, building, structure, or parcel of real state, which is
normally supplied through a separate service pipe and meter installation.
   PRIVATE FIRE SERVICE. A privately owned arrangement of pipes, fixtures, and
devices designed for stand-by service and from which water is taken only for
extinguishment of fires.
   REAL PROPERTY OWNER. The actual owner(s) of the property, as recorded in the
County Assessor’s office.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY UNIT. A building under one roof designed, arranged, and
used primarily for dwelling purposes by a single family used for living,
sleeping, or other occupancy associated with residential uses.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory
   STANDARD METHODS.  The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, the American
Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   UTILITY. The city water UTILITY is owned by the city, operated and managed
by the Board of Public Works and Safety, and engaged in furnishing public water
supply service in the city and its environs.
   UTILITY ENGINEER. An engineer representing the Board of Public Works and
Safety or their duly authorized representative.
   UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT. The superintendent of all utilities in the general
supervision of all utilities overseeing the operations of efficient and
economical operation and maintenance of the utilities, construction work,
repairs, or alterations to the systems, and shall advise the Board of Public
Works and Safety on all matters that will bring about an efficient and
economical operation and maintenance of the utility, or their duly authorized
representative.
   WATER OPERATOR. The water operator of the water pollution control plant or
water distribution system of the city, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   WATER SERVICE PIPE. A supply pipe, including fittings, leading from the tap
in the distribution main to or into the premises supplied or to be supplied.
   WATER TAP or CORPORATION STOP. A fitting owned by the utility and inserted
into the distribution main to which the service pipe is attached.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.16 RULES AND REGULATIONS ON FILE.
   (A)   A copy of all rules and regulations under which service will be
rendered is on file for the convenience of the public in the utility billing
office located at 414 South Main Street.
   (B)   These rules and regulations are set forth by the Board of Public Works
and Safety to act as guidelines to serve the city and its customers. Any
altering or deviation from any of the described rules and regulations shall be
at the Board’s discretion and shall not constitute precedence in past or future
clarifications.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.17 WRITTEN APPLICATION OR CONTRACT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   The utility shall not be required to provide water services on a
temporary or permanent basis, unless and until there shall be an approved
written service application and contract on file with the utility. The only
exception to this rule is that the city may offer a 30-minute to one-hour
service to a new deeded owner of a property to check out the water system. No
utility charge will occur, however, a service charge will be charged. There can
be a three to five day waiting period.
      (2)   Applicants shall be required to show a positive identification when
applying for service. A picture I.D. is required. In the absence of a picture
I.D., a minimum of two proofs of identification will be requited (e.g.,
certified copy of birth certificate, military record, or the like) A social
security number is required.
      (3)   If the applicant is leasing or buying a property on contract the
premises where service is sought, a copy of the current lease or contract
purchase document must also be provided to the Utility Department where it will
be kept on file with the applicant/contract for service file. All occupants
must be identified. The property owner(s) name shall be on file in the utility
office. In some cases, a tenant and real property owner may have applications
on file, with both having a deposit.
      (4)   All applicants are thoroughly checked by the Billing Clerk, the
Superintendant, and reviewed by Mayor (using an approved check list). Normally,
the process may take up to three business days. Once the Superintendant has
checked and signed applications, a work order may be written on the
application, which will be completed within the next 24 hours.
      (5)   Commercial and industrial customer applicants/contracts shall be
executed be an individual with authority to bind the business and shall be
accompanied by assurance of payment satisfactory to the Board of Public Works
and Safety. The Mayor or Clerk-Treasurer may grant temporary approval between
Board meetings.
      (6)   An applicant/contract for service shall be in full force and in
effect until the party for service notifies the utility he or she wishes to
terminate the service, or until legal documentation of property ownership
change has been provided, or until proof of a new customer’s identity and date
of transfer has been provided to the utility. If legal proof of change has been
provided and/or date of transfer has been provided, a new application/contract
may be required.
      (7)   If the utility denies service, it shall notify the applicant of the
reason of denial and the applicant may appeal to the Board of Public Works and
Safety. The utility may reject an application/contact for any of the following
reasons:
         (a)   If the utility determines the applicant/contract has defrauded,
is currently defrauding, or is attempting to defraud the utility;
         (b)   If the utility determines the applicant has an unpaid balance at
another city service area, unless the applicant shall pay said balance in full
prior to new service, being provided, however, that if the applicant has been
discharged of the debt or obligation be proceedings in the United States
Bankruptcy Court, service shall not be refused for failure to pay said unpaid
balance, however, the utility shall have written proof of such proceedings
naming the utility;
         (c)   If the utility has determined that a service address has been
occupied and water has been used without a valid customer application/contact
for water has been used while services were considered off such must be paid in
full by property owner or charges filed against the owner;
         (d)   If the utility shall determine that the use or condition of the
premises would result in water pollution, or damage to the property of the
Utility or to others, or if said use or condition would result in a violation
of any ordinances or status;
         (e)      If the utility shall determine that the use or condition of
the premises, or the actions of the customer/owner(s), or any person acting on
behalf of or with permissions of the customer, shall violate and duly adopted
rule or regulation of the utility;
         (f)   The utility may reject the application/contract for service
whenever such is not clearly and completely filled out in accordance to forms;
         (g)   Service may be denied to any individual who is under the age of
eighteen years of age. He or she may make a special request to the Board of
Public Works and Safety for consideration;
         (h)   Failure to put down a deposit or update a required deposit;
         (i)   Evidence that the applicant has lived at this service address as
listed on the application and when applying balance is still owed at this
address such balance must be paid prior to approval;
         (j)   The utility may reject service based upon I.C. 36-7-9-4, unsafe
buildings and unsafe premises, as described, that may affect the utility
ability to read or inspect its equipment located on the property;
         (k)   Shall be credit worthy;
         (l)   Shall have regular income;
         (m)   Shall sign a release form for the Clerk to check employment
status and/or other information as deemed necessary;
         (n)   Shall reject applicant if a renter, if landlord has not
completed a landlord registration;
         (o)   May be rejected if landlord and/or owner has a permit from
County Area Plan on file and has not shown any progress for one year, that
would effect the condition of the property;
         (p)   Upon death of a spouse and/or a partner whose name is not on the
application, may complete a transfer from, furnish a death certificate
(additional information may be required). Applicants must have been at the
residence for a period of five years. If the applicant’s paying record is good,
no deposit or additional deposit may be required. Such must be waived by the
Board of Public Works and Safety;
         (q)   If property has a water leak that has not been corrected prior
to applicant’s request until the leak has been corrected and/or a plan
submitted to repair within ten days;
         (r)   If a contract for a renter from a landlord fails to state who is
responsible for the utilities; or
         (s)   Failure to pay deposit.
   (B)   Evidence of credit worthiness or at risk applicant.
      (1)   An applicant for utility service may be rejected if only part of
(B)(2) below has occurred or may be rejected under the requirement of (B)(3)
below.
      (2)   A customer of the city utilities who, during the prior two years
with the utility, the following criteria was evidence:
         (a)   Had two checks returned for NSF (non-sufficient funds) or was
required to pay cash;
         (b)   Has two or more liens filed for failure to pay;
         (c)   Had water disconnected by the city for failure of non-payment;
and
         (d)   The city utility filed under a collection agency to recover lost
funds in water utility.
      (3)   Other general information on application such as having a job less
than one year or has not had services with any utility company within the past
two years.
      (4)   An applicant for utility service with the city utility one or two
requirements of:
         (a)   Pay additional at risk deposit;
         (b)   Has been a continuous customers of any utility during the
immediate two years;
         (c)   Owes no outstanding bills for services rendered by the utility;
         (d)   Did not have service disconnected by a utility for non-payment
during the last two consecutive years; and/or
         (e)   Applicant must submit proof under (B)(4)(b) above from prior
utility.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.18 MODIFICATION OF CONTRACT.
   No promises, agreements, or representations by any agent of the utility
shall be binding upon the utility unless they have been incorporated in a
written application/contract signed and approved by an agent of the utility
authorized to sign such contract on the behalf of the utility. The utility may
require an updated contract if changes occur.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.19 ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACT.
   The benefits and obligations under any contract for the supply of water by
the utility shall begin when the utility commences to supply water service
thereunder, and shall inure to and be binding upon the successors, assigns,
survivors, executors, or administrators, as the case may be, of the original
parties thereof; provided, no assignment thereof shall be made by the customer
or by any successor, assign, survivor, executor, or administrator unless the
utility’s written consent to any such assignment is first obtained.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.20 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   (1)   An applicant shall deposit with the utility a deposit based on
the size of the meter as listed, or other factors in the general ordinance
reflecting deposits as may be amended. The utility may require an existing
customer to make additional cash deposits when the customer’s bill has been
delinquent for two months and has been disconnected two times during a six-
month period. If the customer’s bill remains unpaid for period of 60 days after
the date of the final bill or the date of the discontinuance of service, the
amount of such bill (water and wastewater) will be deducted from the deposit.
      (2)   The balance, if any, will be remitted to the depositor within 60
days or provided for proof of legal survivors, executors, or a court appointed
executor or administrator. Deposits may be transferred from one property to
another or refunded upon payment of the current final bill at the request of
the person whose name appears on the deposit in writing.
      (3)   Deposits may be transferred from one customer to another at the
same address with completion of the approved legal form. Any customer who is
requesting transfer may be required to put down a deposit or add to the deposit
on hand to the current required deposit, the exception may be that the new
customer has been a prior customer in good standing. No deposit of refunds
shall be made until the customer is no longer a customer of the utilities.
   (B)   Bankruptcies.
      (1)   Any active residential account which files bankruptcy shall have
its existing cash deposit applied to any unpaid charges established prior to
the bankruptcy filing date, and shall be required to submit an additional cash
deposit sufficient in amount so that the total deposit is equal to the regular
deposit requirement in order to continue service beyond said bankruptcy filing
date.
      (2)   Any active non-residential account which files bankruptcy shall
have it’s cash deposit applied to any unpaid charges established prior to the
bankruptcy date, and shall be required to submit an additional cash deposit
sufficient in amount so that the total deposit is equal to 15% of the previous
12 months charges, including taxes and penalties, for each service (rounded to
the nearest $100), but in no event less than the residential deposit for the
applicable service(s), in order to continue service beyond said bankruptcy
filing date.
      (3)   If, after the bankruptcy filing date, an account becomes past due,
service may be terminated and the deposit used to pay all existing charges.
Upon re-establishing the required deposit balance, the payment of reconnect
charges, and the payment of any charges not covered by the cash deposit,
services will be restored.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.21 TURNING ON WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Water shall not be turned on for any purpose at any premises until a
contract for service has been executed. A water utility representative for the
city is the only person authorized to turn on water. At least one adult that is
at least 18 years of age must be present to assure that all water outlets on
the premises are closed in order to prevent any possible water damage, unless
the customer has signed on the line in the contract “Releasing the Utility of
any Responsibility for any Damage to the Premises” and said customer shall
assume full responsibility for any damages to the premises.
   (B)   Appointment for water turn on will be scheduled with a one-hour window
during normal business hours from 7:30 a.m. up to 3:00 p.m., on a normal
scheduled workday, excluding holidays/weekends normally within 24 to72 hours of
application/contract approval. In some situations, it may be up to five days.
If a customer is not present at the scheduled appointed time, a service fee
will be assessed for a second turn-on appointment based upon the rate schedule.
If the water has been off at the service address for a period of one month, a
service fee shall be assessed for the purpose of resetting the meter. The
exception to this rule shall be any monthly scheduled disconnect shall be
turned on normally within two hours, and if an error occurred, water shall be
turned on immediately.
   (C)    No person, but an authorized representative of the Utility
Department, a member of the Fire Department, or a member of the Street
Department, shall turn on, operate, or remove the nozzle cap from any of the
city’s fire hydrants to which water is supplied by the utility. Anyone other
than the prior mentioned people who turn a fire hydrant on shall incur a fine
for each infraction as stated in the rate ordinance.
   (D)   Any customer/property owner/contractor or any other person that is
found to have tampered with a water meter pit including removing the lid of
such pit, with a water turn-on or shut-off valve, or any part of the meter
shall incur a fine for each infraction as stated in the rate ordinance and the
water will be turned off by the utility and shall not be turned back on until
the fine is paid. The customer whose name appears on the application is
responsible to ensure the theft of water service is discovered, the city shall
take legal action and reserves the right to collect any legal costs incurred
for prosecuting a customer, homeowner, or contractor that has stolen water from
the city. The Utility Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city shall be the only authorized agent to turn water on/off.
   (E)   The utility shall establish administrative guidelines on locking,
pulling of water meters and the procedures for turning water off/on for those
that has been disconnected due to delinquency or for standby service. All
charges for these activities are listed in the rate ordinance.
   (F)   Any legal action taken by the utility the property owner shall be
accountable for all attorney and court costs/fees.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.22 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   Service at the address may not be resumed or put in any other name
until any/all outstanding water charges have been paid in full and a new
application/contract has been approved.
   (B)   (1)   Customers who have past due water bills or a hardship plan in
paying their bill may establish a regular payment schedule for their past due
or hardship situation to avoid disconnect. An application shall be completely
filled out and forwarded to the Board of Public Works and Safety for approval.
      (2)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may require the applicant to
appear at the meeting prior to approval, and may allow less that a ten-month
time period for repayment. The customer shall agree to pay 10% of the original
unpaid balance, above their regular monthly bill for each month or less time
until all arrears are paid in full. The customer can pay the entire past
charges at any time during this time period. If the customer does not pay the
agreed to amount, the utility shall terminate the water service to said
property.
      (3)   The water shall not be turned back on until the outstanding bill
and penalties are paid in full. There will be no interest charge on any payment
plan. Under unusual circumstances, the Board may rewrite a plan or grant
additional time. If a tenant of said property is requesting such a plan the
owner of said property must approve in writing to let tenant have an extended
payment plan. In no way does such an agreement relieve the property owner of
the responsibility in payment of any due wastewater, stormwater utility bills.
The Board of Public Works and Safety may make special exceptions if it is in
the best interest of the utility and the customer. The real property owner may
not have water disconnected except for emergency repair.
   (C)   Customers vacating premises must give written notice to the water
office in order that the water may be turned off. Such forms may be online for
customers, or the customer will be held responsible for the water bill until
such notice is given. Landlords are responsible for unpaid wastewater,
stormwater, and trash for their rentals. The landlord can request to be
notified when a renter of their property is not paying the utility bill.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.23 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Notification of desire for service discontinuance.
      (1)   Whenever a customer desires to have service discontinued, the
customer shall notify the utility, in writing using forms, of such desire and
of the date on which service is to be discontinued three working days in
advance of such date to provide time for the utility to obtain the final meter
reading and complete the required disconnect forms. Disconnect shall occur
during the normal business hours of 7:30 a.m. up to 3:00 p.m. After hours,
weekend, or holidays may be requested for a fee. Customers shall complete the
required disconnect forms.
      (2)   There will be no statement of charges in whole or in part by reason
of the extended service of the customer or for any other cause unless the
utility has been notified to turn off the water.
   (B)   Customer/real property owner. A customer/real property owner shall not
request water disconnection due to a problem with a tenant.
      (1)   A customer or the real property owner may request the utility to
temporarily disconnect water service without charge, during regular working
hours, a maximum of two times in any one week for the purpose of repair. A
service charge will be assessed for each call in excess of two per week. Said
charge shall be $25. Customers/real property owners are required to have shut-
off vales installed as outlined in §
52.27.
      (2)   In order to pay for the maintenance of the water plant, meters,
lines, and the like, there shall be a monthly minimum charge based on the size
of the water meter servicing the property whether any water is used or not,
unless the customer or a court order request water to be turned off.
      (3)   After the final reading and a final bill has been issued and when
the water has been terminated by the utility at the service address, no charge
will occur for water, however, such shall be recorded as approved lost water.
   (C)   Real estate agency, lien holder, or new deeded owner; (standby
service).
      (1)   A real estate agency, a lien holder, or a new deeded property owner
may have the water turned on one time for the purpose of testing or
demonstrating the integrity of the water lines. A short application must be
completed for this service. They city shall charge $25 for standby service to
perform this type of test.
      (2)   The standby service will include turning on the water service,
providing someone that is 18 years of age is present to attest to inside
leakage, for a period of one-hour period. If the property needs a meter
reinstalled, an additional charge of $25 charged. If there is a no show for a
standby check and an additional request is submitted, another payment of $25 is
required. At the end of such test, the utility shall lock the water meter.
      (3)   If a real estate agent, lien holder, or a new deeded property owner
requests that the water service be left on, then a full application/contract
shall be signed and the full deposit as stated in the rate ordinance and an
account will be opened.
   (D)   Rental property.
      (1)   The deeded property owner must be informed any hardship extended
payment plans if they are requested by the renter. Both renter and customer
known as the owner of the real property has recorded, such a deed may be held
by others who have financial interest in said property. The real property owner
has the right to review customer usage and billings.
      (2)   The real property owner, once a renter vacates a rental unit, may
assume the responsibility for minimum water (unless water has been
disconnected). The property shall always pay for a minimum wastewater,
stormwater and sanitation. After 30 days, an inactive meter charge shall occur.
      (3)   If the property owner was to transfer, and/or sell the real
property and the renter owned an outstanding utility bill at the time the
utility shall forward the past due bill to the collection agency and water
shall be discontinued at such address.
      (4)   A utility deposit, as stated in the ordinance, must be maintained
at the utility billing office on order to keep water service on at the
property. The renter deposit will be used toward any unpaid balance due on a
utility bill and the customer which is the real property owner as recorded at
the County Auditor’s office.
      (5)   There shall be a charge for inactive meters after 30 days.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.24 SERVICE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   All customers who request water service which will require a water
main tap and service line shall be required to make a written application for
service to the utility. The application must indicate the location of the
premises to be served and the size of service line needed to determine the size
of the water meter or curb stop.
   (B)   The utility will then advise the applicant of the form and character
of the water supply available. Applications are good for 12 months. The
applicant may request an extension of time up to an additional year. The Board
of Public Works and Safety shall review and approve/reject all applications
requiring any type of new service. Any water lines that have been cut from a
water main area, shall be required to have a new tap.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.25 SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   All service pipes shall be type “K” copper from the water main to the
water meter setting and three feet beyond the water meter pit. In order to
provide a stable meter setting for outside residential meters, the outlet from
the water meter shall be a minimum of three-quarter I.D type copper for a
distance of three feet. No service pipe shall be less than three-quarters of an
inch I.D. The utility shall inspect all new types of service connections.
   (B)   The utility reserves the right to determine the placement of each
service connection so that the curb stop or water meter pit will, as a general
rule, be located between the present or proposed sidewalk and curb, or at such
other location as, in the judgment of the utility, will provide a safe, more
convenient, or more satisfactory location for the curb stop or water meter pit.
The customer at his or her own expense is responsible for construction of the
service line from the water meter setting to the premises.
   (C)   All tap connections that are two inches I.D. or greater shall have
plans and specifications submitted along with the application for approval by
the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (D)   Service pipes, curb stops, service boxes, water meter pits, stop and
waste valves, and other fixtures used in the installation of, repairs to, or
additions to service pipes shall be of a type and quality approved by the
utility’s standards.
   (E)   Water service shall not be furnished through a single pipe to more
than one property. Under unusual or exceptional conditions, the utility may
waive this rule if the circumstances require.
   (F)   In a case where a service has been installed prior to the adoption of,
and is not in accordance with, these general rules and regulations, where water
is being taken through a single curb stop to supply two or more premises, each
customer benefitting from such arrangement shall be responsible for the payment
of his or her own water bill and other legitimate charges.
   (G)   A new service pipe between the distribution main and a building shall
be run in a direct line whenever it is practicable and possible without bends
and at a depth of not less than four and one-half feet. No pipe having joints
shall be driven. Service pipes shall not be laid in the same trench with
wastewater lines or any other conduit.
   (H)   New service lines shall be connected directly to a water distribution
main, which is immediately adjacent to the property requesting service. If an
adequate distribution main is not available immediately adjacent to the
property requesting service, it will be necessary for the property owner to
petition for a water main extension in accordance with §
52.38.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) 2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.26 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE PIPES AND METER BOXES.
   (A)   The service pipe and fixtures from the water main to and including the
water meter pit shall be maintained in good repair at the expense of the
utility, including replacements, if necessary, because of damage, corrosion,
tuberculation or other deterioration. If the customer makes replacement
necessary due to increased demand, such replacement shall be at the customer’s
expense.
   (B)   The service pipe and fixtures from the water meter pit to the building
served shall be maintained at the expense of the customer or owner of the
property. The owner of the property shall repair any leaks or other defects in
the same. A service line main extended to property not adjacent to a utility
water main, whether through public or private property, shall be maintained by
the customer or owner unless such line or main has been accepted in writing for
maintenance by the utility. Any extension shall be recorded at office of the
County Recorder. A city permit may be required.
   (C)   In the event that the water meter for any property served by the
utility is located inside of a building upon the property, the owner of the
property shall be responsible for any and all maintenance and repairs to the
service pipes and fixtures for such property from the point at which at the
curb stop is located nearest to the point of entrance to the building contains
the water meter for such property and thereafter into and throughout such
building.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.27 INSIDE PIPING AND SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Each applicant for service shall, at his or her own expense, equip
their main supply line with suitable shut-off valves or valves just inside the
foundation wall and shall provide all piping and attachment, all of which shall
be assembled, installed, and maintained by him or her, subject to approval of
any authorized inspectors and in accordance with the general rules and
regulations of the utility at that time and all state codes including the
contractors plumbing code. A city permit may be required.
   (B)   Each three-quarter-inch service line shall have a compression type
stop and waste valve on the inlet side of the meter. Each one-inch or larger
service line shall have a gate type shut-off valve on both the inlet and outlet
side of the water.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.28 CROSS-CONNECTION.
   (A)   Any cross-connections with other sources of water supply shall be made
in conformity with rules and regulations of the State Department of
Environmental Management and/or such requirements as other regulatory bodies
may from time to time require and/or the rules and regulations of the utility
in force at that time. Copies of the State Department of Environmental
Management’s regulations and requirements are on file in the Utility Department
for the benefit and the inspection of parties concerned.
   (B)   All plumbing shall conform to the State Plumbing Code and no physical
connections between the public water supply and wastewater lines, process
solution lines, tanks, and the like shall be permitted unless property
protected by approved safety devices.
   (C)   The utility will make periodic inspections of customer’s piping and
will report any violations as set out above to both the customer and the
respective regulatory authority. The utility shall not assume responsibility
for damage, sickness, or death arising from the existence of an improper cross-
connection or the use of or failure of use of a back-flow prevention device.
The utility shall maintain a file of all connections.
   (D)   The utility may force any utility customer to install a cross-
connection, however, those customers that were in operation prior to 1995 may
be grandfathered in to operate without such requirement. In the event of an
update or change of ownership or operations, the customer shall be required to
install a cross-connection.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.29 USE OF BOOSTER PUMP.
   (A)   (1)   No booster pump shall be installed without the written approval
of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (2)   In all booster pump installations, the suction of the pump shall be
connected to an atmosphere tank with the city’s water flow entering the tank
being controlled by an automatic float waive and freely discharging into the
tank a minimum of six inches above the positive overflow level of the tank.
   (B)   As an alternative, a vacuum breaker with a cushioning valve shall be
installed on the suction side of the pump.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.30 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   With the consent of the owners or as authorized by law, properly authorized
representatives of the utility shall have the right to enter upon the premises
of the customer at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspecting cross-
connection protective devices, atmospheric tank installations, booster pump
vacuum breaker valves, and general plumbing, as well as for the purpose of
reading, inspecting, repairing, or replacing water meters used in connection
with the service and removing such water meters at the termination of the
contract or discontinuance of the service. A letter will be forwarded to the
deeded property owner and the renter (if rented) allowing three days for
access. After such time, if access is not given, action shall be taken by
removing the access problem.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.31 METERING.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified in the contract between the utility and the
customer or by the tariff on file, the water supplied will be measured by a
water meter or water meters of standard manufacture, furnished and installed by
the utility in force and effect as amended from time to time. The customer
shall provide for this purpose, free from expense to the utility, a suitable
place near the service entrance and as close as possible to the property line
water meter pit location, which is approved by the utility before installation.
   (B)   The utility shall designate the size of the water meter to be used for
serving any customer. Each building to be served directly from the main must be
supplied by at least a three-quarter-inch I.D. service line. When the service
line is larger than this, the utility reserves the right to designate the
number of water meters that can be supplied by such service line.
   (C)   All water meters or other appliances and equipment which are furnished
by and at the expense of the utility and which may at any time be at/or on the
customer’s premises shall, unless otherwise expressly provided herein, be and
remain the property of the utility. The customer shall protect such property
from freezing and from any loss or damage. No one except a representative of
the utility shall be permitted to remove such property or tamper therewith.
   (D)   (1)   Ordinary repairs will be made by the utility without expense to
the customer. Repairs of damage caused by carelessness or neglect by the
customer will also be made by the utility, but the cost of such repairs will be
charged to the customer.
      (2)   The utility reserves the right to turn the water service to the
property for failure to pay such costs.
   (E)   A water meter will be tested for accuracy if the customer requests it.
If the test establishes the accuracy of the water meter to be within 98% and
102%, the utility shall make a test free during a 12- month period. Additional
tests will charge the customer $25. The customer may have a representative
present when the water meter is tested.
   (F)   (1)   A data log shall be created by the water utility when a customer
uses an excess of 50% of the customer above average water usage.
      (2)   A customer may request a data log be created for their review or
copied for a purpose of checking for a leak or when high usage occurs at
customers property such logs may be done no more than two per 12-month period
or an additional charge often $10 per such date after a second log. The utility
office shall maintain records of all logs at each service address.
   (G)   A permanent record of each meter shall be kept owned by the utility
listing the year of the purchase, its identification record of each test date
general result of test, number of data logs recorded of such meter and if meter
any part replaced or meter is cleaned.
   (H)   Ordinary repairs to meter shall be made by the utility without expense
to the customer. Anytime a meter has been repaired or replaced, the customer
shall sign a copy of the utility work order indicating the service had been
provided and the current readings have been verified.
   (I)   Meter repairs and/or replacement necessitated through customer neglect
or negligence shall be charged to the responsible customer. Customers may be
held responsible for cost of repair for both materials and labor.
   (J)   In order to not be charged for sewage because of water usage due to
sprinkling, the Board of Public Works and Safety has established the following
policy, if a customer installs an automatic sprinkling system, with a water
meter, the customer shall be billed for water only that is used by the
sprinkling system, all other water used on premises shall be billed for water
and sewage. Said sprinkling system must be equipped with a water meter setting
and said setting is to be inspected and approved by the utility insuring that
it is installed properly. The customer shall be responsible for all
installation and connection costs. The customer shall be responsible for
notifying the Utility Department to turn on and off the water for seasonal
service. The property owner shall maintain the sprinkler system.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.32 BASIS FOR BILLING.
   (A)   All charges for usage, other than for non-metered fire service or
other special purpose, shall be calculated upon the registration of the water
meter(s) installed.
   (B)   The utility will make every effort to read all water meters monthly.
      (1)   Such readings shall be prima facie evidence of the amount of water
used. If a water meter fails to measure accurately or if the utility is unable
to read the water meter for any reason, the customer shall be billed an
estimated charge based on the average of the previous three months’ billings.
      (2)   The first billing made after the water meter is read shall be
adjusted according to the water meter reading.
   (C)   (1)   Where water is taken through more than one water meter, and
where such arrangement is for the convenience of the customer, then each water
meter shall be read and billed separately.
      (2)   Where water is taken through more than one water meter for the
convenience of the utility, then the water meter readings shall be aggregated
and billed as one reading.
   (D)   All water passing through water meters shall be charged with water,
whether used, wasted, or lost through leakage. If the utility is determined to
be at fault for a leak on the resident side of the water meter, then the Board
of Public Works and Safety or a member that is designated by the Board of
Public Works and Safety shall make an adjustment based on the average charge of
the customer’s previous three months of usage prior to the leak.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.33 DENIAL OR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR CAUSE.
   (A)   Denial of service. The utility reserves the right to refuse an
application for service if the applicant is indebted to the utility for service
therefor rendered at any location, however, the utility shall make known to the
applicant the reason for such refusal.
   (B)   Discontinuance with notice.
      (1)   The utility reserves the right to discontinue service without
notice to any customer:
         (a)   When an emergency exists (e.g., if a customer has a very bad
leak and cannot be reached, water main break or fire, or the like);
         (b)   For unauthorized use of water;
         (c)   For an unapproved cross- connection of a customer’s water pipes
to any other source of water supply or for permitting any condition to exist
about his or her premises that causes or might cause pollution of the public
water supply;
         (d)   Upon order of any authority having jurisdiction of such matter;
         (e)   For any tampering or knowingly permitting any tampering with any
service pipe, curb stop, water meter, meter seal, or water meter pit, including
the lid;
         (f)   For any fraudulent representation or concealment related to
consumption for use of water;
         (g)   Mail returned by the U.S. postal service;
         (h)   If a customer issued or causes to be issued any invalid form of
payment (for example, a bad check, invalid bank account number, invalid credit
card number, or the like) to avoid termination of service or for any reason,
and said payment method is rejected by a financial institution. However, any
customer who receives a letter, a door tag, or a phone call or email after two
times in a 12-month period must pay in cash;
         (i)   Failure to remit charges/fines/ legal/fees assessed by the city
for tampering with water/wastewater connections, which includes turning the
water on or off and tampering with water meter pit including removing water
meter pit lid;
         (j)   An agreement to pay may be executed between the utility, the
customer and an approved representative of the customer at the sole discretion
of the utility in order to avoid disconnection of service or in other special
circumstances, the full amount must be paid to avoid disconnection;
         (k)   Failure to comply as agreed to the terms of a payment plan with
the utility;
         (l)   Failure to pay an additional deposit; and/or
         (m)   When property is found to be vacant without notice to utility
and payment is not current.
      (2)   Water service discontinued for any of the foregoing reasons shall
be renewed immediately upon correction of the condition causing the
discontinuance and any applicable charges or fees paid prior to the
reconnection.
   (C)   Discontinuance after ten-day notice.
      (1)   The utility reserves the right to discontinue all water service to
all or any part of the premises of a customer who has been given written notice
on his or her monthly billing or a letter of notice, either mailed to the
customer at the address as shown on the records of the utility or delivered
personally to the customer, that their water service would be discontinued in
whole or in part if any situation as listed below continues:
         (a)   Delinquency in the customer’s account with the utility in
connection with charges for water service supplied, meter or service
maintenance, or contractual for facilities;
         (b)   Failure to maintain free and non-hazardous access to the
premises and to the water meter so that representatives of the utility may take
meter readings, make all necessary inspections, and maintain, replace, or
remove the water meter;
         (c)   Installing a new service pipe and appurtenances and altering or
removing existing service pipes and appurtenance including the water meter;
         (d)   Vacancy of the premises;
         (e)   Violation of any these general rules and regulations or any
amendments thereto;
         (f)   Failure to receive a bill shall not affect the right of the
utility to turn off and discontinue service for non-payment;
         (g)   An agreement to pay;
         (h)   Water wasted due to failure to repair a leak; or
         (i)   Existence of conditions dangerous or hazardous of physical
safety of property for the utility staff.
      (2)   (a)   Water service discontinued for one of the foregoing reasons
will be renewed by the utility upon application when the conditions under which
such service was disconnected has been corrected, when all charges to the
customer have been paid, and when access to the premises may be made during
regular business hours.
         (b)   A charge commensurate with the cost of turning off and turning
on the service shall be made. If shutting off or renewing the service involves
any excavating, the cost of such work shall be an additional charge against the
customer. The utility reserves the right to turn off the water service to the
property for failure to pay such costs.
      (3)   Whenever the utility has turned off water service, the customer
shall not turn the water service back on nor shall he or she cause any other
person to turn such service on. Illegal reconnections shall be treated and
assessed in the manner as illegal tap, as referred to in §
52.21.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.34 NOTIFICATION OF LOAD INCREASE.
   The service connections, meter, and distribution mains have definite
capabilities. No substantial addition to the water consuming equipment or
appliances connected thereto should be made except after written notice is
received by the utility and the customer receives written consent from the
utility.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.35 RESALE OF WATER.
   The water service furnished under the rules in this subchapter is for the
use of the customer on his or her own premises. He or she shall not resell any
water or service without the written consent of the utility.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.36 PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   The entire private fire protection service on a customer’s premises
shall be subject to inspection and tests by the utility at such times as it
deems necessary.
   (B)   Before any modifications are made to any private fire service
protection system or before service is furnished to new private fire protection
system connected to or proposed to be connected to and supplied with water from
the utility’s distribution mains, final plans of such fire protection system
shall be filed with and approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (C)   The following shall be shown on the final plans:
      (1)   The number of sprinkler heads to be served;
      (2)   The sizes and location of the system piping;
      (3)   The sizes and locations of all connections to the utilities;
      (4)   The sizes and locations of all valves;
      (5)   The sizes and locations of all hose connections, reels, or
cabinets;
      (6)   The sizes and location of storage tanks connected to the fire
system; and
      (7)   The outlet sizes and locations of fire hydrants.
   (D)   (1)   All fire protection lines that are within buildings must be
installed in such manner that all pipes will be easily accessible for
inspection at any time. Underground pipes outside of the building must be
placed and maintained at a minimum depth of four and one-half feet.
      (2)   All private fire protection lines, hydrants, and metering
facilities shall be maintained by and at the expense of the customer.
      (3)   No connection with a fire protection system will be permitted to
supply water for general purpose unless the customer’s fire underwriter has
approved the connection and unless the general purpose water is metered.
      (4)   If such a connection is approved, it shall be made outside the
building to be served and both the protection line and the general purpose line
shall be separately valved in accordance with the utility’s specifications to
permit either to be turned on or off without affecting other.
   (E)   A private fire protection system without a tank shall be equipped with
a minimum of a double check-detector check. A system with a tank shall have an
air gap or a reduced pressure device. All valves must be as close to the
distribution main as possible.
   (F)   Hydrant and other fixtures connected to a private fire service
connection may be sealed by the utility and such seal shall be broken only in
case of fire or as specially permitted by the utility. The customer must
immediately notify the utility when any such seal is broken.
   (G)   Where a service tap on a utility distribution main provides water for
both fire and general purposes to a customer or customers, separate charges
shall be made for the purpose to each customer by the utility in accordance
with the established rules and schedule of rates.
   (H)   A private fire service, at the option of the customer and after the
approval of his or her fire underwriter, may be connected to the metered water
service. The minimum monthly charge for such combined fire and general purpose
uses shall be as set out in the established rate schedules.
   (I)   The customer must pay any additional investment cost incurred by the
utility in such metering. Maintenance of the general water service meter will
be at the expense of the utility.
   (J)   Whenever a private fire system is to be tested under the regulations
of the fire service underwriters, the customer shall notify the utility of such
proposed test, naming the day and the hour same is to be made, so the utility
may have a representative present for the test.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.37 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The utility shall not be responsible for damages, for the failure to
supply or for the interruption of the supply of water, or for defective piping
on the customer’s premises, or for damages resulting to a customer or to third
persons through the use of water or the presence of the utility’s devices on
the customer’s premises, unless due to fault, negligence, or culpability on the
part of the utility.
   (B)   Neither party shall be liable to the other for any failure or delay in
case such failure or delay is caused by strikes, the acts of nature,
unavoidable accidents, or contingencies beyond its control and is not due to
the fault, neglect, or culpability on its part.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.38 WATER MAIN EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   Policy. The city shall follow the required main extension rules as
referred in General Assembly passed House Enrolled Act 1131 (I.C. 8-1-2-101.5)
of June 30, 2020, which requires the city water utility to comply with
extension rules of the IURC or as may be amended such rules are on file in the
utility office and/or the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   (a)   The city water utility is required to follow main extension
rules even when the utility has withdrawn from matters under I.C. 8-1-5-3-9 or
8-1-3-9.1.
         (b)   The extension rules after June 30, 2020 covers such as the
original depositor with refunds being required for ten years from the date the
main was completed, all refunds go to the original depositor.
         (c)   A three-year revenue allowance is required to be calculated by
the utility for each connection to the main. The cost of a main larger than
necessary, the city water utility shall bare such cost.
      (2)   The utility shall charge a separate tap fee, such fees are not to
be included in the main extension cost. The tap fee schedule is under a general
ordinance and may be amended by the Common Council. The City Board of Public
Works and Safety shall work with all involved necessary to ensure the main
extension rules are carried out with applicant. All water main extensions shall
obtain a required easement, size of such shall be designed and obtained by
engineering.
   (B)   Connection charges.
      (1)   Extension above fee limit; refunds.
         (a)   Refund provision.
            1.   The contract between the utility and the original petitioners
shall provide that any person who did not share the original cost of the
extension and who wishes to use the extension within a period of 15 years from
the date of the acceptance of such extension shall be required to pay a fair
and proportionate share of the original cost of the extension.
            2.   The amount of the share collected from such new customer shall
be based on a fixed connection charge as follows.
Tap Size Connection Fee
Tap Size               Connection Fee
3/4-inch connection    $900
1-inch connection      $1,100
1-1/2- inch connection $1,300
2-inch connection      $1,500
2-1/2-inch connection  $1,700
3-inch connection      $2,200
4-inch connection      $3,200
6-inch connection      $4,200
8-inch connection      $6,200
 
            3.   The above fees do not include any expense (such as the
connection cost) that the city may charge for work they perform.
            4.   This additional share shall be refunded equitably to the
original petitioner(s) annually or more frequently at the discretion of the
utility. The total amount refunded shall not exceed the amount of the
petitioner(s) original cost of the extension.
      (2)   Extension above fee limit; additional extensions.
         (b)   Lateral extensions.
            1.   The utility may connect additional water mains to an extension
without incurring any financial obligations to persons sharing the cost of the
financial obligations to persons sharing the cost of the extension. However,
the utility shall not permit a prospective customer whose property is
contiguous to the extension to obtain service from an additional extension
installed laterally from said extension until the customer pays proportionate
share of the cost of the extension.
            2.   The utility shall collect in advance from the owner of such
property a fixed connection charge as follows.
Tap Size Connection Fee
Tap Size              Connection Fee
3/4-inch connection   $900
1-inch connection     $1,100
1-1/2-inch connection $1,300
2-inch connection     $1,500
2-1/2-inch connection $2,700
3-inch connection     $2,200
4-inch connection     $3,200
6-inch connection     $1,200
8-inch connection     $6,200
 
            3.   This additional lateral connection fee shall be refunded to
the original depositors annually or more frequently at the discretion of the
utility. The total amount refunded shall not exceed the original cost of the
extension.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed - -2014; Ord. 1-2021, passed 6- 22-2021)
§ 52.39 OBTAINING A PERMIT.
   A property owner and/or contractor shall obtain a permit from the city in
replacement of water lines on owner property. Inspection of replacement is
required prior to backfill. If a new tap is required, refer to the related
General Ordinance, or as amended on such charges.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.40 SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   When an applicant for water service that needs to be connected to a
water main, such applicant shall pay to the utility a service charge as
established by the Board of Public Works and Safety, under §
52.38 and tap fee under such ordinance.
   (B)   Modifications/alterations/unauthorized operation of a valve, anyone
who operates of attempts to operate lines, meter pits, meter pit lids, and the
like in a manner which is not consistent with the rules and regulations shall
be subject to a fine as stated in the rate ordinance. The utility reserves the
right to turn off the water service to the property for failure to pay such
fine. Such fine may be appealed to the Board of Public Works and Safety. In
addition, there shall be a $50 fee each time a notice (legal or clerical) must
be sent regarding the incident(s). This fee can be appealed to the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.41 ABANDONED SERVICE LINES.
   All abandoned service lines shall be physically cut off and secured at the
water main, or the best method to secure, in order to eliminate the possibility
of leakage due to deterioration. Such work shall be done by the utility. It is
the responsibility of the property owner to notify the utility of such
abandoned lines. The utility may charge a fee or file for removal of cost to be
based on hourly rates per ordinance.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.42 INABILITY TO READ METER.
   (A)   When the utility is unable to gain access to a meter setting in order
to obtain the regular monthly reading cycle, the utility shall send the
customer a letter requesting arrangements for access within regular working
hours. If the city does not receive a response to the correspondence, then
service shall be discontinued.
   (B)   No object shall be permitted to block access to a water meter pit.
Objects blocking the water meter pit, including, but not limited to, buildings,
fencing, driveways, recreation area, vehicles, and the like, that prevent the
city from reading the water meter shall be removed by the customer. If the
customer does not remove such object(s), the utility reserves the right to
remove, move, or have removed any item blocking access to a water meter pit.
   (C)   The homeowner will be responsible for the cost of repairing,
rerouting, repaving, towing, removing an item, and the like, necessary to allow
a city employee access to the water meter pit. A $50 fee will be assessed for
each correspondence (legal or clerical) that must be sent to the homeowner
following the initial of a challenge for the removal of an item. This fee
cannot be appealed. The city reserves the right to turn off the water of any
customer for failure to pay such fees.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.43 TEMPORARY WATER SERVICE.
   Contractors and other using water construction or any other temporary use
must take out a permit for each separate job or location and whenever possible
must have water meter install by the utility to determine the amount of water
used. If it is not possible or practical to meter water used, the utility shall
establish a charge based on estimated water use.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.44 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department is the preferred method of filling
swimming pools for a water customer, for a donation to the Fire Department.
Following the pool ordinance, the customer shall pay at the going rate for
water to fill pool. The billing office shall complete all paperwork and forward
to the Fire Department who will schedule the fill. The billing office shall
then bill the customer for the water used to fill the pool. The filling process
shall be metered by the Fire Department. If the customer elects to fill the
pool themselves, they will be billed for the applicable water/sewage rates that
apply to the amount of gallons used.
   (B)   The Volunteer Fire Departments shall not be held liable for any damage
that may occur as a result of filling a customer’s own pool as the filling of
your pool is used as a training project for the Department.
   (C)   Any resident who wishes to have their pool filled must be in good
standing with the utility company. They must not have any previous balance on
any account with the city. If the resident wanting to have their pool filled is
found to be in arrears of a utility bill, they will not be eligible to have it
filled until their bill is paid in full.
(Ord. 11-2020, passed 6-9-2020; Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.45 AFTER HOURS WORK.
   (A)   All emergency call outs shall be made to the utility at (765) 667-9666
after hours from 4:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Monday through Friday, all weekends and
holidays entire 24-hour periods. There may be a fee for such call-outs.
   (B)   A utility service representative being dispatched for the following
reasons will be considered on-call, after hours:
      (1)   A utility service representative being dispatched between the hours
of 4:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. for the purpose of turning on or off water service
or other water and/or sanitary problems at a private, industrial, or commercial
property;
      (2)   Calls received after 4:00 p.m. on Friday and before 7:00 a.m. on
Monday for the purpose of turning on or off water service and/or sanitary
problems at a private, industrial, or commercial property;
      (3)   Calls received on a regularly scheduled holiday for the purpose of
turning on or off water service or other water and/or sanitary problems at a
private, industrial, or commercial property;
      (4)   There maybe a service charge based upon the rate ordinance for
emergency call outs or after hours.
   (C)   The utility is the only authorized agent to turn water on or off at
the water meter setting or curb stop. This will prevent any question as to the
responsibility of any repair bills that may occur from broken meter setting
valves or curb valves. A person attempting to turn water on or off from a curb
valve or meter setting valve shall be responsible for any and all repair cost
occurred from any damage to that valve, curb box, or meter setting.
   (D)   The minimum charges for after hour call outs for repairs on private,
industrial, and commercial property is $25. The utility or Board of Public
Works and Safety reserves the right to increase or waive this fee on a case-by-
case basis, in order to recover labor and materials costs. The Board of Public
Works and Safety during a regularly scheduled meeting must approve waiving this
fee.
   (E)   This fee should be paid following the billing ordinance procedures.
Failure to pay the fee shall constitute the water being turned off for a
delinquent payment.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021) Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.46 RIGHT TO CHANGE POLICY.
   None of the above rules and regulations shall prevent the Board of Public
Works and Safety from extending or providing water service under a different
policy so long as the public interest is thereby served. Policies or cost
within this subchapter may be changed or adjusted with amendments.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.47 APPEAL AND REQUESTS.
   (A)   For a request to dispute a disconnect, a customer has the right to
request a hearing before the Board of Public Works and Safety, during which a
customer may be represented in person or by counsel, or by any other person of
the customer’s choosing. Such request needs to be filed in writing of notice of
appeal form during normal business hours five days prior to hearings. All
hearings shall be on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month. At 6:00 p.m.
at the Common Council room, unless there is a change of venue due to reasons
beyond the city’s control. If the customer fails to file a timely appeal, the
appeal will not be considered.
   (B)   Appeals may also be filed for any charges the customer feels are
unfair such as deposits, late charges, or charges for labor and materials. All
appeals must follow the procedure of division (A) above.
   (C)   Any customer may be aggrieved by any charge or determination by the
utility may request and shall be granted the right to appeal.
   (D)   Customers may request a dialog five with the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer
who will hold a conference with the customer which may bring two additional
people to the conference. The conference will discuss the process of meter
reading, billing, data logging report, leak repair, water conservation tips,
and the like.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.48 WATER RATIONING EMERGENCY.
   Due to various emergencies the city utility may require customers to ration
amount of water used which may reflect time periods, volume consumed, or other
limits. Customers are expected to follow the guidelines as the utilities’
notices states during such emergencies.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.49 TAX EXEMPT STATUS.
   Any person or organization applying for service and requesting a sales tax
exempt status must provide the proper paperwork from the state proving the tax-
exempt status. This information must be provided before tax exempt service will
be granted. The Clerk-Treasurer shall review the material for approval and
maintain a file of such approval.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.50 ADMINISTRATIVE CODES.
   The utility, with Board approval, may create Administrative Codes to guide
the utilities in day-to-day activities and operation of the utilities.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 52.51 ROLE OF THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   The position of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be to maintain contracts, act as
clerk for the Board of Public Works and Safety and utilities, and shall be the
custodian of all funds belonging to the waterworks, know the manner in which
money is derived from, and regularly report on the general condition of such
funds. All financial actions shall be reported for approval normally at each
regularly scheduled meeting. The Clerk-Treasurer shall work with the Mayor on
annual budget preparation.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed 6-22-2021)
APPENDIX A: SCHEDULE OF WATER RATES FOR CUSTOMERS INSIDE CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
   The Phase 1 rates became effective November 28, 2023. Phase 2 rates will be
effective for January 1, 2025.
 Phase 1 Phase 2
                                  Phase 1   Phase 2
Recurring Charges
   Fire Protection per Month - Private Automatic Sprinkler Systems
1-1/2-inch meter                  $43.68    $47.39
2-inch meter                      $54.64    $59.28
2-1/2-inch meter                  $65.56    $71.13
3-inch meter                      $76.48    $82.98
4-inch meter                      $109.24   $118.53
6-inch meter                      $163.88   $177.81
8-inch meter                      $273.97   $297.26
10-inch meter                     $491.61   $533.40
12-inch meter                     $710.12   $770.48
   Monthly Metered Flow Rate per 1,000 Gallons
First 3,000 gallons per month     $16.38    $17.77
Next 5,000 gallons per month      $13.04    $14.15
Next 8,000 gallons per month      $9.76     $10.59
Next 14,000 gallons per month     $8.34     $9.05
Next 20,000 gallons per month     $6.54     $7.10
Over 50,000 gallons per month     $5.09     $5.52
   Minimum Charge per Month
5/8-inch meter                    $31.80    $34.50
3/4-inch meter                    $65.36    $70.92
1-inch meter                      $118.84   $128.94
   Minimum Charge per Month
1-1/4-inch meter                  $163.40   $177.29
1-1/2-inch meter                  $222.80   $241.74
2-inch meter                      $430.86   $467.48
3-inch meter                      $950.79   $1,031.61
   Minimum Charge per Month
4-inch meter                      $1,663.88 $1,805.31
6-inch meter                      $3,758.71 $4,078.20
   Monthly Fire Protection Charge
5/8-inch meter                    $3.38     $3.67
3/4-inch meter                    $3.72     $4.04
1-inch meter                      $4.72     $5.12
1-1/4-inch meter
1-1/2-inch meter                  $6.08     $6.60
2-inch meter                      $9.80     $10.63
3-inch meter                      $37.17    $40.33
4-inch meter                      $47.41    $51.44
6-inch meter                      $70.96    $76.99
   Non-Recurring Charges
Tap Fee
5/8-inch connection               $1,200    $1,200
All other meter sizes             Actual cost of connection - not to be less
                                  than $900
Unauthorized Use of Hydrant and Hydrant Meter Tampering
To be charged to customers for
unauthorized use of hydrants and  $250 plus cost of repair and estimated usage
for hydrant meter tampering - per
instance
 
(Ord. 14-2023, passed 11-28-2023)
APPENDIX B: SCHEDULE OF WATER RATES FOR CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
   The Phase 1 rates became effective November 28, 2023. Phase 2 rates will be
effective for January 1, 2025.
 Phase 1 Phase 2
                                 Phase 1   Phase 2
   Recurring Charges
   Fire Protection per Month - Private Sprinkler System
1-1/2-inch meter                 $50.19    $54.45
2-inch meter                     $62.78    $68.11
2-1/2-inch meter                 $75.33    $81.73
3-inch meter                     $87.87    $95.34
4-inch meter                     $125.52   $136.19
6-inch meter                     $188.30   $204.30
8-inch meter                     $314.79   $341.55
10-inch meter                    $564.86   $612.88
12-inch meter                    $815.93   $885.28
   Monthly Metered Flow Rate per 1,000 Gallons
First 3,000 gallons per month    $18.82    $20.41
Next 5,000 gallons per month     $14.98    $16.25
Next 8,000 gallons per month     $11.21    $12.16
Next 14,000 gallons per month    $9.58     $10.39
Next 20,000 gallons per month    $7.51     $8.15
Over 50,000 gallons per month    $5.84     $6.34
   Minimum Charge per Month
5/8-inch meter                   $36.53    $39.64
3/4-inch meter                   $75.10    $81.49
1-inch meter                     $136.55   $148.15
   Minimum Charge per Month
1-1/4-inch meter                 $187.75   $203.71
1-1/2-inch meter                 $256      $277.76
2-inch meter                     $495.06   $537.13
3-inch meter                     $1,092.46 $1,185.32
   Minimum Charge per Month
4-inch meter                     $1,911.80 $2,074.30
6-inch meter                     $4,318.76 $4,685.85
   Monthly Fire Protection Charge
5/8-inch meter                   $3.88     $4.21
3/4-inch meter                   $4.27     $4.64
1-inch meter                     $5.42     $5.88
1-1/2-inch meter                 $6.98     $7.58
2-inch meter                     $11.26    $12.21
3-inch meter                     $42.71    $46.34
4-inch meter                     $54.47    $59.10
6-inch meter                     $81.53    $88.46
   Non-Recurring Charges
Tap Fee
5/8-inch and 3/4-inch connection $1,200    $1,200
 
(Ord. 14-2023, passed 11-28-2023)
CHAPTER 53: SANITATION
Section
   
53.01   Compliance with rules and regulations
   
53.02   Determination of rates by Common Council
   
53.03   Monthly charge for services
   
53.04   Service not provided for retail, manufacturing and/or commercial
establishments or some apartments
   
53.05   Failure to pay; recovery of amounts by city
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   From and after July 1, 2016, the collection, hauling, transporting,
processing, treating, and disposing of the garbage and trash in the city shall
be done in strict compliance with all rules and regulations applicable to same
whether said rules and regulations be by the United States of America, the
state, the county, and/or the city.
(Ord. 7-2016, passed 6-28-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.02 DETERMINATION OF RATES BY COMMON COUNCIL.
   From and after July 1, 2016, the Common Council shall fix and determine, at
the time appropriate and deemed proper by it, the rates and charges to be
assessed and collected within the city, in order to obtain the income necessary
to provide the sanitation services as hereinabove set out.
(Ord. 7-2016, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 53.03 MONTHLY CHARGE FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Effective after July 1, 2016, a charge of $10.50 per dwelling unit per
month shall be made for the services of the collection, transporting, hauling,
processing, treating, and disposing of garbage and trash within the city
limits, and in accordance with any and all rules and regulations at any time
established by the Common Council and further in accordance with any and all
contracts entered into for said services by the city, and any and all charges
to be made upon every dwelling unit within the city limits.
   (B)   (1)   All residents within the city shall pay a mandatory fee for
collection of weekly trash collection, even if trash collection is not used.
Such billing shall be billed on a monthly utility bill, with a 10% penalty to
be assessed if the fee has not been paid by the due date. Such billing shall
follow the utility billing procedures based upon I.C. 36-9-23-1. Fees for
collection is due on the fifteenth day of every month.
      (2)   All residents shall be charged the required fee where being used or
not. However, one container must be available at such residence for collection
of trash and charge shall apply whether used or not at the property. The city
is applying Home Rule that the one service company that the city hires shall be
the one used by all city residents.
      (3)   Residents outside the city may request city trash pick up if the
resident has one of the city utilities cost shall reflect as stated in an
ordinance. If costs change, those outside the city needs to be informed.
(Ord. 7-2016, passed 6-28-2016; Ord. 18-2023, passed 12-27-2023)
§ 53.04 SERVICE NOT PROVIDED FOR RETAIL, MANUFACTURING AND/OR COMMERCIAL
ESTABLISHMENTS OR SOME APARTMENTS.
   Sanitation service shall not be provided for any retail, manufacturing, and/
or commercial establishment within the city. All apartments with more than
three units must provide their own sanitation service with the exception of
apartment units that receive separate water/sewage bills.
(Ord. 7-2016, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 53.05 FAILURE TO PAY; RECOVERY OF AMOUNTS BY CITY.
   (A)   In the event that the owner of a residential dwelling unit and/or the
occupant thereof fails and/or refuses or neglects to pay the monthly charge or
any part thereof for the sanitation services rendered as hereinable described
for a dwelling unit or any part thereof, said charge or charges shall be an
obligation of the owner and the occupant of said dwelling unit.
   (B)   If the owner and/or occupant does not pay the monthly charge or any
part thereof within 30 days after it is due, the amount of the unpaid monthly
charge, together with the penalty of 10% and reasonable attorney’s fees, shall
be recovered by the city in accordance with I.C. 36-9-30-21.
(Ord. 7-2016, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any resident outside the city who has collection for pick up and/or
bring it into the city for pick up shall pay a penalty or $100 each time paid
to the Clerk Treasurer.
(Ord. 18-2023, passed 12-27-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Speed limits
   
70.03   Operation of vehicles
   
70.04   Truck traffic
Traffic Schedules
   
70.15   Schedule of intersections
   
70.16   Schedule of two-way stop intersections
   
70.17   Schedule of stop intersections
   
70.18   Schedule of three-way stop intersections
   
70.19   Schedule of four-way stop intersections
   
70.20   Schedule of five-way stop intersections
   
70.21   Schedule of yield intersections
   
70.22   Schedule of one-way streets
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 93
   Noise caused by motor vehicles, see §
95.03
   Traffic and vehicle use in parks, see §
96.22
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Refers to vehicles of the Fire Department,
police vehicles, ambulances, EMA vehicles, and/or public service corporation
vehicles as are designated or authorized as such by the Board of Public Works
and Safety.
   BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY. Has the authority, working with the
Police, Fire, and Street Departments, to temporarily close streets and/or
alleys for city approved special events, repair, or other situations for the
safety of all such using city streets and alleys.
   BUSES. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying passengers for hire and
used for the transportation of persons.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway at an intersection included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of the sidewalks from curb to
the opposite curbs when unmarked.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   ERECTION OF SIGNS, MARKINGS. Working with a traffic engineer, such shall
meet required standards. The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have
authority to work with the Street Department that all areas are properly
signed.
   INTERSECTIONS. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines, or if more, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways at, right angles, or an area within which vehicles traveling on
different streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the portion of a street
used for travel, except when temporarily closed for repair, utility work, tree
cutting, and/or sidewalk or special activities as approved by the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
§ 70.02 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed laws within the city as establishing and regulating shall apply
to the city streets or alleys with the laws as state establishing or regulating
speed limits shall apply to all public streets, except in circumstances where
as property authorized by state law. Such limits have been determined to be
safe and reasonable.
   (B)   All streets within neighborhoods shall be 30 mph, with exception as
authority within the jurisdiction to reduce the following areas to 25 mph:
      (1)   Main Street from Pearl Street to Tenth Street shall be 25 mph;
      (2)   Water Street from East Fourth Street to East Twelfth Street shall
be 25 mph;
      (3)   All alleys shall be ten mph;
      (4)   Temporary speed limits in the vicinity of a work site, signs must
be posted in accordance with work site speed limits of five mph;
      (5)   Areas around a school zone shall be 20 mph imposed only in
immediate vicinity of the school when children are present and properly posted;
and
      (6)   A person may reduce speed as may be required with right-of-way.
Drivers may not drive a vehicle at speeds greater then is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions having required to the actual and potential
hazards than existing.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
§ 70.03 OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Stop when traffic is obstructed. No driver shall enter an intersection
or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating
without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Crossing of marked traffic lanes. Where traffic lanes have been
marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse
to keep such vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane except when
lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning
movement.
   (C)   Turning at intersection. The driver of vehicle intending to turn at an
intersection shall do as follows:
      (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      (2)   Left turns on two-way roadway.
         (a)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of such center line where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection to the right of the
center line of the roadway being entered.
         (b)   Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that portion
of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection, where both
streets are one-way.
      (3)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection
where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways,
the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-handed lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection,
as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction on the roadway being entered.
      (4)   Pedestrians and motor vehicles to obey railroad signals. It shall
be unlawful for any pedestrian or operator of any vehicle to enter on or
attempt to cross railroad tracks at any intersection without first stopping
when there are automatic red signal lights flashing and in operation or if such
has gates until gates have raised.
      (5)   Prohibition.
         (a)   It is unlawful and a violation of this section to use, operate,
or ride upon a skateboard, roller skates, in-line skates, coaster, or scooters
both motorized and non-motorized in the following areas of the city:
            1.   City sidewalks rendered impassable by damage;
            2.   Water Street;
            3.   West Sixth Street;
            4.   Main Street;
            5.   Muncie Pike;
            6.   Pearl Street, except while crossing the street on a crosswalk.
When so crossing, such person shall be granted all of the rights and be subject
to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
         (b)   No motorized vehicles or scooters may be used on any city
sidewalks.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions for TRUCK, used in this section
reflects that a truck vehicle having three axles or a truck vehicle over 5,000
pounds gross vehicle weight, and includes every self-propelled commercial
vehicle designed, used, or maintained for the commercial transport of goods or
property, and includes semi-trailer trucks and either the tractor pulling the
same, or the trailer itself, or trucks that include self-propelled commercial
vehicles designed, used, or maintained for commercial transport of goods or
property.
   (B)   Restricted travel. No person shall drive any truck or vehicle as
defined upon any public street or alley in the city at any time, unless said
vehicle is in the process of delivering or picking up goods or materials as
address written on bill of loading, or similar documentation must be produced
by driver if stopped while driving on any city street.
   (C)   Travel by shortest travel. All trucks and vehicles as defined shall
proceed by the shortest combination of state, county, or federal highways and
shall not proceed on any city street or alley unless such highways have been
closed and the City Board of Public Works and Safety has approved such detour
allowing trucks to travel only on designated streets of such detours.
   (D)   Exit from city. All trucks, as defined, when finished delivering or
picking up goods within the city shall return to the nearest non-city street by
most direct route, unless the truck has subsequent delivery or pick-up schedule
within the immediate vicinity for that day. In such cases, the truck may
proceed with subsequent delivery or pick-up locations. The driver shall have in
his or her possession a written manifest or similar document which shows in a
clear manner all of the scheduled delivery or pick-up locations for that day
and shall proceed by the shortest and/or marked location.
   (E)   Court costs and attorney fees. Any person found in violation of any
provision of this section shall be responsible for court cost and reasonable
attorney’s fees for any prosecuting the action in court. Fines may be paid to
the Clerk-Treasurer without attorney fees or court costs. If Area Plan is
called in to assist, such will be handled by the courts and attorneys
accordingly.
   (F)   Blocking or parking on any city streets.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a truck on any city streets,
alleys, or on any easement of said areas and/or property owned by the city,
other than expeditious loading or unloading of freight, except also in the
event a moving van is loading or unloading furniture and household goods and
operator shall have reasonable time in which to complete such tasks and
movement of trucks.
      (2)   A truck tractor may park for a period of one hour at a business
site while conducting business. Residents may park only a truck tractor (no
trailers), box truck, and the like at their resident private parking lot, as
long as it does not create a safety hazard to the flow of traffic, children
playing, or neighborhood issues that may devalue property and/or create noise
issues.
      (3)   No trucks shall be allowed at a residence that may be operating a
business from such residence unless such resident is zoned for such business.
Such shall be in the best interest of the neighbor’s sustainable quality of
life for all city residents.
   (G)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   Licensed and zoned to repair trucks, operate trucks, or the like;
      (2)   Licensed to carry passengers for hire;
      (3)   School buses;
      (4)   Trash trucks;
      (5)   State, county, and municipal;
      (6)   Farm equipment;
      (7)   Public utility vehicles on official business;
      (8)   Licensed and zoned business who has truck deliveries and/or picking
up material on an ongoing basis; and
      (9)   A temporary permit of $25 as may be approved by the Police
Department and the Street Superintendent.
(Ord. 3-2022, passed 4-26-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
§ 70.15 SCHEDULE OF INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No U-turns are permitted at any intersection and/or public streets
within city streets.
   (B)   This code designates and describes a stop or yield at each
intersection and the authority to erect.
   (C)   The following intersections are recognized:
      (1)   Third Avenue stops for Second Street;
      (2)   Third Avenue stops for Sixth Street;
      (3)   Third Street stops for Fourth Avenue;
      (4)   Third Street stops for Third Avenue;
      (5)   Third Street stops for Water Street;
      (6)   Twelfth Street stops for Muncie Pike (WB);
      (7)   Twelfth Street stops for Muncie Pike (EB);
      (8)   Walker Street stops for Muncie Pike;
      (9)   Wichita Avenue stops for Sixth Street; and
      (10)   Wiley Street stops for Douglas Street.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
§ 70.16 SCHEDULE OF TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections are recognized as two-way stop intersections:
   (A)   Corder Street stops for Ninth Street;
   (B)   Eighth Street stops for Main Street;
   (C)   Eleventh Street stops for Boyd Street;
   (D)   Eleventh Street stops for Water Street;
   (E)   Fairmount Avenue stops for Ninth Street;
   (F)   Fifth Street stops for Main Street;
   (G)   Ninth Street stops for Water Street;
   (H)   Pearl Street stops for Main Street;
   (I)   Race Street stops for Eighth Street;
   (J)   Race Street stops for Ninth Street;
   (K)   Race Street stops for Sixth Street;
   (L)   Seventh Street stops for Fairmount Avenue;
   (M)   Seventh Street stops for Sixth Street;
   (N)   Seventh Street stops for Water Street;
   (O)   Tenth Street stops for Gulick Street;
   (P)   Third Street stops for Main Street;
   (Q)   Twelfth Street and Corder Street (EB and SB); and
   (R)   Twelfth Street and Fourth Avenue (WB and NB).
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
§ 70.17 SCHEDULE OF STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersection are designated as stop intersections. Every
driver shall stop his or her vehicle as indicated by the official traffic
control devices erected at these intersections:
   (A)   Bates Street stops for Muncie Pike;
   (B)   Boyd Street stops for Douglas Street;
   (C)   Corder Street stops for Sixth Street;
   (D)   Davis Street stops for Third Avenue;
   (E)   Douglas Street stops for Muncie Pike;
   (F)   Eighth Street stops for Fairmount Avenue;
   (G)   Eighth Street stops for Gulick Street;
   (H)   Eleventh Street stops for Main Street;
   (I)   Eleventh Street stops for Corder Street;
   (J)   Eleventh Street stops for Fourth Street;
   (K)   Eleventh Street stops for Muncie Pike (EB);
   (L)   Eleventh Street stops for Muncie Pike (WB);
   (M)   Fairmount Avenue stops for Sixth Street;
   (N)   Fifth Street stops for Fourth Avenue;
   (O)   Fifth Street stops for Third Avenue;
   (P)   Fifth Street stops for Water Street;
   (Q)   First Avenue stops for Pearl Street;
   (R)   First Avenue stops for Second Street;
   (S)   First Avenue stops for Main Street;
   (T)   First Street stops for Water Street;
   (U)   Fourth Avenue stops for Twelfth Street (NB);
   (V)   Fourth Avenue stops for Ninth Street;
   (W)   Fourth Street stops for Fourth Avenue (WB);
   (X)   Fourth Street stops for Main Street;
   (Y)   Fourth Street stops for Third Avenue (EB);
   (Z)   Gulick Street stops for Sixth Street;
   (AA)   Gulick Street stops for Twelfth Street;
   (BB)   James Street stops for Pearl Street;
   (CC)   Ninth Street stops for Boyd Street;
   (DD)   Pearl Street stops for Water Street;
   (EE)   Race Street stops for Second Street;
   (FF)   River Street stops for Muncie Pike;
   (GG)   River Street stops for Tenth Street;
   (HH)   Second Avenue stops for James Street;
   (II)   Second Avenue stops for Pearl Street;
   (JJ)   Second Avenue stops for Second Street;
   (KK)   Second Street stops for Water Street;
   (LL)   Seventh Street stops for Corder Street;
   (MM)   Seventh Street stops for Gulick Street (EB);
   (NN)   Seventh Street stops for Gulick (WB);
   (OO)   Tenth Street stops for Corder Street;
   (PP)   Tenth Street stops for Wichita Avenue;
   (QQ)   Twelfth Street stops for Main Street (WB and NB);
   (RR)   Twelfth Street stops for Boyd Street;
   (SS)   West Ninth Street stops for 150 East;
   (TT)   Winston Road stops for Wichita;
   (UU)   Winston Road stops for 150 East; and
   (VV)   450 East stops at SR22/US35.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
§ 70.18 SCHEDULE OF THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersection are designated as three-way stop intersections:
   (A)   Fourth Street and Water Street;
   (B)   Glenn Street and Wiley Street;
   (C)   Ninth Street and Wichita Avenue;
   (D)   Second Street and Fourth Avenue;
   (E)   Seventh Street and River Street; and
   (F)   Twelfth Street and Water Street.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
§ 70.19 SCHEDULE OF FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersection are designated as four- way stop intersections:
   (A)   Eighth Street and Water Street;
   (B)   Boyd and East Tenth Street;
   (C)   Eleventh Street and Gulick Street;
   (D)   Ninth Street and Gulick Street;
   (E)   Ninth Street and Main Street;
   (F)   Second Street and Main Street;
   (G)   Fourth Avenue and West Tenth Street;
   (H)   Sixth Street and Main Street;
   (I)   Sixth Street and Water Street; and
   (J)   Tenth Street and Main Street.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
§ 70.20 SCHEDULE OF FIVE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The intersection of Tenth Street, Water Street, and Muncie Pike is
designated as a five-way stop intersection.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
§ 70.21 SCHEDULE OF YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersection is designated as a yield intersection. Every
driver shall yield his or her vehicle as indicated by the official traffic
control devices erected at this intersection: River Avenue and Wiley Street (EB
and WB).
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
§ 70.22 SCHEDULE OF ONE-WAY STREETS.
   All streets below are one-way streets. Every driver shall operate his or her
vehicle on these streets in one specific direction, as indicated by official
traffic control devices posted on these streets:
   (A)   Water Street from Twelfth Street to Tenth Street (One Way North); and
   (B)   Whichita from West Ninth Street to West Sixth Street (One Way North).
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating one or more provisions in this chapter shall be
subject to a civil penalty schedule as:
      (1)   First violation: $25.
      (2)   Second violation: $50.
      (3)   Third violation and each after: $100.
   (B)   Any city police officer o city code enforcement officer are authorized
to handle complaints and issue tickets for violations of such ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   Payments of such violations shall be in accordance with Chapter
33 of this code of ordinances, payable to the City Clerk-Treasurer or in a
court of general jurisdiction.
      (2)   There may also be fees associated with an attorney or courts that
might apply.
   (D)   (1)   Penalties not stated within §
70.04 found in violation shall be fined not less than $150 for the first
offense no more than $250 for the second offense and no more than $350 for the
third or subsequent offense with a citation being issued for each violation. In
addition, any person found in violation of §
70.04 and/or any provision thereof shall be responsible for court cost and
reasonable attorney fees for prosecuting action.
      (2)   Any truck who is stopped by any law enforcement officer or code
enforcement officer of the city is hereby authorized to enforce §
70.04, and any person found in violation thereof shall be fined not less than
$150 for the first offense, not less than $250 for the second offense, and not
less than $350 for the third and subsequent offense, with a citation being
issued for each violation. Trucks parked over night on any city street, alley,
or easement of such shall be fined $200 for each subsequent event.
      (3)   Failure by driver to use good judgement as in §
70.04(F)(1) shall be fined $100.
      (4)   Residents who fail to correct the situation as described in §
70.04(F)(2) shall be fined $100 to $250.
(Ord. 3-2022, passed 4-26-2022; Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Purpose; definition
   
71.02   Regulations, generally
   
71.03   Parking spaces for persons with a physical disability
   
71.04   Authority, violations, and enforcement
   
71.05   Restricted stopping, standing, and parking
   
71.06   Storage of trucks and the like
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Truck parking regulations, see §
70.04
§ 71.01 PURPOSE; DEFINITION.
   (A)   The Common Council grants the Board of Public Works and Safety all
powers to install signs and markings through the Street Department shall cause
to be placed and maintained official signs and marking where no parking points
are necessary and practicable for the purpose of regulating said restrictions
upon various areas under the city’s jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating
the parking of various types of vehicles under the general guidance as provided
by MUTCD and the Mayor and the Chief of Police may order no parking in various
areas due to any type of emergency within the city or a city’s daily function
and during special city approved activity.
   (B)   Referring herein, the reference to TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRACTOR TRAILER,
TRAILER BODY, MOBILE HOME, HOUSE TRAILER, CAMPER TRAILER, BUS or any similar
vehicle or equipment means vehicles or equipment having an overall length in
excess of 20 feet of a height or more than nine feet.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
§ 71.02 REGULATIONS, GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person may park a motorized vehicle in an alley. A 30-minute
exception shall be allowed for loading and/or unloading unless prior approval
by permit granted by police or Code Enforcement for a period that exceeds the
30-minute period was obtained. Exceptions include utility-type work or other
work activities.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle near or around any school buildings,
unless for children drop-off or pick-up, special school events or activities,
and to handle school-related business.
   (C)   No parking allowed on the American Legion Post 95 Memorial on First
and Water Streets.
   (D)   (1)   Short duration of double parking and/or parking on part of a
road or in an alley using a common-sense approach in residential areas that may
reflect a property owner’s right-of-way.
      (2)   No overnight parking is allowed in city- owned parking lots, park
areas, and the like. No overnight sleeping in cars on any city streets, alleys,
or parking lots is permitted. Having a special event such as a graduation
party, holiday event, or death in a residence may create additional vehicles;
however, a ten-foot clearance for free movement of traffic flow is required.
   (E)   The city shall regulate the parking of semi- tractors or trailers,
trucks in excess of one-ton capacity, and other similar vehicles and equipment
of a certain size upon city roadways, public right-of-ways, or any property
owned by the city. Said vehicles and equipment tend to block the view of other
vehicles and children playing in the neighborhoods, as well as negatively
impacting the aesthetics of the city residential properties or in the downtown
areas in order to further protect the health, safety, and general well-being of
the residents or visitors in the city.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Trucks, see §
70.04
§ 71.03 PARKING SPACES FOR PERSONS WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Designation of parking spaces for persons with a physical disability.
Parking spaces for persons with a physical disability may be reserved and shall
be designated by posting immediately adjacent to and visible from the space a
vertical sign measuring at least 48 inches from the base of the sign post and
bearing:
      (1)   The official international wheelchair symbol or a reasonable
facsimile of that symbol; or
      (2)   A facsimile of the symbol displayed on the motor vehicle license
plate of a person with a physical disability as such symbol may be designated
by the state law.
   (B)   Violations.
      (1)   No person shall park a motor vehicle which does not have displayed
a placard of a person with a physical disability or of a disabled veteran
issued under I.C. 5-16-9 or under the laws if another state, or a registration
plate of a person with a physical disability or a disabled veteran issued under
I.C. 9-18-18 or 9-18-22, or under the laws of another state, in a properly
designated reserved parking space intended for pairing by a person with a
physical disability.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly park in a properly designated and
reserved parking space intended for a person with a physical disability while
displaying a placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is
entitled.
      (3)   No person shall display for use in parking in a properly
designated, reserved parking space intended for a person with a physical
disability while displaying a placard or a special license plate that was
issued under I.C. 5-16-9, 9-18-18, or 9-18-22, or under the laws of another
state.
      (4)   No person shall park in a properly designated and reserved parking
space intended for use by a person with a physical disability if their vehicle
displays a placard or a special registration plate entitled the person to park
in a parking space reserved for persons with physical disability, if at the
time of using that designated parking space the person is not in the process of
transporting a person with a physical disability or a person who is a disabled
veteran.
      (5)   The following areas have been designated as ADA Parking Spaces:
         (a)   The library at Fourth and Water Street;
         (b)   One at City Hall;
         (c)   Two on West Fourth and Main Street;
         (d)   Two at the Community Building;
         (e)   Two as designated by the parking area at Fifth and Main Street;
and
         (f)   Private parking lots or business may also have a designated
area.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 AUTHORITY, VIOLATIONS, AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall be responsible of
controlling and monitoring all signs and sign posts within city streets, city
owned properties and alleys; painting under the guidelines of MUTCD.
   (B)   Restricted time limits or any passengers or for the loading, delivery,
or pick-up of freight or materials in any place marked loading zone shall be
under the control of the Board of Public Works and Safety who shall erect and
maintain signs indicating them.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall control all no parking
zones or areas within the city such may be recommended by the Police Chief. The
following zones have been created:
      (1)   Twelfth Street, its north side running from Main Street to Water
Street;
      (2)   Water Street, its east side running from Tenth Street to Twelfth
Street, and from First Street to Fifth Street, west side from First Street to
Tenth Street;
      (3)   Main Street, its west side from Twelfth Street to the end of Main
Street;
      (4)   Sixth Street its Northside from Fairmount Avenue to Third Avenue;
and on its south from Fairmount Avenue to Third Avenue;
      (5)   On a crosswalk area;
      (6)   600 Block of River Street on west side of the road;
      (7)   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (8)   With 75 feet in front of any railroad flasher signal erected for
the control traffic over railroad tracks;
      (9)   Parking in properly marked ADA locations; and
      (10)   Any area that is properly marked with a sign as approved by the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 RESTRICTED STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING.
   (A)   A person operating a motor vehicle on city streets and/or city alleys
shall abide by the laws when finding a place to park their vehicle. If a person
parks in a no parking zone or areas, will face a fine or a vehicle may be towed
to an impound yard. If any person has problems with parking, he or she shall
discuss such with the Chief of Police.
   (B)   No one operating a motor vehicle may not stop, stand, or park except
when necessary as directed by police officers or traffic control officers in
any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, grass plot between curbs, or sidewalks;
      (2)   In front of a public or five feet from a private driveway, or an
alley entrance;
      (3)   Within an intersection or on a bridge;
      (4)   On a crosswalk, within 20 feet of a crosswalk;
      (5)   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (6)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, when hydrant is part of an
intersection up to 30 feet;
      (7)   Within 50 feet of the nearest railroad crossing or a flashing
signal;
      (8)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance, entrance to a fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to the fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to the fire station, within 75 feet
of the entrance signs must be posted;
      (9)   Twenty-five to 30 feet of an intersection area; and
      (10)   Exception to the above rules shall be approved by the Board of
Public Works and Safety, such as created by a special event or project.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 STORAGE OF TRUCKS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to store trucks, (box, semi, and the like)
trailers, or commercial vehicles, recreational vehicles, boats, motor homes,
travel trailers, or campers as defined in this title, on properties in
residential zoning districts unless they comply with the following rules
(except for loading and unloading).
   (A)   Such storage shall not be located closer than three feet to any side
or rear lot line and ten feet of any street line. Property owners may appeal
these setbacks to the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   Travel trailers or campers shall not exceed 40 feet in length and
eight feet in width.
   (C)   Only one such travel trailer or camper shall be permitted to be stored
outdoors in any required yard setback areas of a lot on any residential zoning
district.
   (D)   No travel trailer or camper stored in conformance with this subsection
shall remain in such storage for longer than 12 consecutive months.
   (E)   Any such vehicle stored in accordance with this subsection shall not
be occupied and shall not be provided with utility connections other than
required for vehicle maintenance and shall not be used for storage of any non-
recreational material.
   (F)   The within section shall not apply to the storage of any construction
vehicles engaged in construction for an active construction site within
residential zoning district.
   (G)   Only one commercial vehicle of a rated capacity not exceeding two tons
with two axels, owned or used by a resident of the premises, shall be permitted
to be regularly parked or be garaged on a lot in any residential zoning
district. The vehicle must follow the above rules.
   (H)   All vehicles must be registered and be licensed (refer to no thru-
trucks and the like within the city corporate limits).
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person violating one or more provisions in this chapter
shall be subject to a civil penalty schedule as:
         (a)   First violation: $25.
         (b)   Second violation: $50.
         (c)   Third violation and each after: $100.
      (2)   Any city police officer of city code enforcement officers are
authorized to handle complaints and issue tickets for violations of such
ordinance.
      (3)   (a)   Payments of such violations shall be in accordance with
Chapter 33 of this code of ordinances, payable to the City Clerk-Treasurer or
in a court of general jurisdiction.
         (b)   There may also be fees associated with an attorney or courts
that might apply.
   (B)   There is a $100 fine for violation of §
71.02(C).
   (C)   If any person violates the provisions of §
71.03, the owner of such vehicle shall be responsible for the payment of a fine
of $100 at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed - -2024)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Operator of golf carts and utility task vehicles
   
72.03   Slow moving signs
   
72.04   Time of operation
   
72.05   Place of operation
   
72.06   Occupants
   
72.07   Parking rules
   
72.08   Registration
   
72.09   Exemption and condition
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER LICENSE. A valid license, issued by the State of Indiana or any other
state, to operate a motor vehicle.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart, and
other vehicles as defined in this ordinance, in an amount not less than is
required by applicable state law for motor vehicle operated on public highways
within the state.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf cart clubs for the
purpose of playing he game of golf on a golf course, all as defined by I.C. 9-
13-2-69-7.
   OPERATE or OPERATION. To exercise any control over the function or movement
of a golf cart, and all others listed operating on the city streets and alleys.
   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE (UTV). A motorized off-highway vehicle that:
      (1)   Is a small two- to six-person, two- or four-wheel drive, off-road
vehicle, also called UTV (utility vehicle or utility task vehicle), a ROV
(recreational off-highway vehicle), or a MOHUV (multipurpose off-highway
utility vehicle); and
      (2)   Is defined as multipurpose off-highway utility vehicles (MOHUVs) as
vehicles with:
         (a)   Four or more wheels;
         (b)   A steering wheel;
         (c)   Non-straddle seating; and
         (d)   Maximum speeds between 25 mph and 50 mph.
      (3)   In addition, MOHUVs have foot controls for throttle and braking,
occupant restraints, and rollover protective structures.
   ROADWAYS.
      (1)   The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publically
maintained when any part of the way is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel within the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   The terms includes, but is not necessarily limited to, streets,
alleys, roads, highways, and thoroughfares.
   SIDE BY SIDE (SBS). A four-wheeled vehicle designed for on and off-road use,
such as a John Deere Gator, Cub Cadet Challenger, or a Polaris Ranger.
   STATE HIGHWAY. Any street under the control of and maintained by the State
of Indiana.
(Ord. 11-2021, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 72.02 OPERATOR OF GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TASK VEHICLES.
   (A)   The operation of a golf cart, utility task vehicle, and other vehicles
as defined in the definition of “side by side” in §
72.01  within the city is strictly prohibited, unless the golf cart or utility
task vehicle is operated and equipped in full compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Only valid licensed drivers 16 years of age or older who have been
issued a driver’s license from a State Bureau of Motor Vehicles may operate a
golf cart, utility task vehicle, or other vehicles as defined in the definition
of “side by side” in §
72.01  in the city.
(Ord. 11-2021, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 72.03 SLOW MOVING SIGN.
   All carts as listed operating on any city street or alley shall at all times
display a slow moving sign in accordance to I.C. 9-21-9-3.
(Ord. 11-2021, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 72.04 TIME OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts and utility task vehicles shall not be operated on city streets
during one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise unless the
golf cart, utility task vehicle, and other vehicles as described in the
definition of “side by side” in §
72.01  is equipped with two operating headlights (one on each side of the front
of the golf cart or utility task vehicle) and two operating tail light with
brake lights (one on each side of the rear of the golf cart or utility task
vehicle) which are visible from a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 11-2021, passed 7-13-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts, utility task vehicles, or other vehicles as described in the
definition of “side by side” in §
72.01  may be operated on city streets which have a posted speed limit of 30
mph or less. Golf carts, utility task vehicles, or other vehicles as described
in the definition of “side by side” in §
72.01  shall not be operated on city sidewalks, walking paths, or grass right-
of-ways or upon any state highways located within the city. Golf cart, utility
task vehicle, or other vehicles as described in the definition of “side by
side” in §
72.01  traffic shall be prohibited on private areas and city parks (with the
exception of the River Rally or other approved special events as approved by
the Board of Public Works and Safety).
(Ord. 11-2021, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 72.06 OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The number of occupants on a golf cart, utility task vehicle, or other
vehicles as described in the definition of “side by side” in §
72.01  shall be limited to the number of persons for whom factory seating is
installed and provided on the golf cart or utility task vehicle. The operator
and all occupants shall be seated and remain in the golf cart or utility task
vehicle and no part of the body of the operator or occupant shall extend
outside the perimeter of the golf cart, utility task vehicle or other vehicles
as described in the definition of “side by side” in §
72.01 , while the golf cart, utility task vehicle, or other vehicles as
described in the definition of “side by side” in §
72.01  is being operated. No one under the age of eight years is allowed to
ride on the back seat of the golf cart, utility task vehicle, or other vehicles
as described in the definition of “side by side” in §
72.01  unless accompanied by an adult.
   (B)   In accordance with Indiana Law as of July 1, 2017; all children under
18 years of age are required to wear a helmet on or in any off road vehicle
(ORV). This includes utility task vehicles described in this ordinance. The law
applies to public or private property.
(Ord. 11-2021, passed 7-13-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING RULES.
   Golf carts, utility task vehicles or other vehicles as described in the
definition of “side by side” in §
72.01 , shall obey all of the rules and regulations adopted by the city or by
the state of the road, as well as have a registered sticker from the city,
valid for the current year.
(Ord. 11-2021, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 72.08 REGISTRATION.
   Golf carts, utility task vehicles, or other vehicles as described in the
definition of “side by side” in §
72.01  shall be registered with the city on or before May 1 annually. The city
incurs administrative costs in providing materials for the registration and for
approved stickers to be placed upon the golf carts, utility task vehicles, or
other vehicles as described in the definition of “side by side” in §
72.01  and in inspecting the vehicles. The administration/inspection fee of $25
is to be paid through the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer. Registration tags
will be issued by the Clerk-Treasurers office during business hours after the
city’s Police Department has completed a satisfactory inspection of the golf
cart, utility task vehicle, or other vehicles as described in the definition of
“side by side” in §
72.01 . The city allows Gas City registration to operate on city streets and
alleys within the city without additional registration. All shall follow the
rules within this subchapter.
(Ord. 11-2021, passed 7-13-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 EXEMPTION AND CONDITION.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety for the city may exempt from the
provisions of this subchapter the use of golf carts, utility task vehicles, or
other vehicles as described in the definition of “side by side” in §
72.01 , in favor of public safety personnel, and street/utility personnel.
During special events, the participants should be identified as such and each
individual must provide proof of insurance and a valid driver’s license before
being allowed to operate a golf cart, utility task vehicle, or other vehicles
as described in the definition of “side by side” in §
72.01  during such event as approved by the police.
(Ord. 11-2021, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter reflecting any type of infraction of traffic
regulations, registration, parking rules, occupants, valid operator license and
insurance, all shall be a violation/penalty of $100 for each infraction at any
given time. An exception shall be “slow moving” sign violations, which shall be
$25. Any violation/penalties shall be paid through the Ordinance Violation
Bureau and money collected shall be deposited into the General Fund.
(Ord. 17-2023, passed 12-27-2023)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   NOISE CONTROL
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
90.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
90.10   Exemptions
   
90.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
   
90.12   Landlord registration program
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-12-2015)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4, et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.04 through
90.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in the definition of “familial status,” above.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person, means:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities.
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or addictions to
a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802, 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14); nor
does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that individual is
a transvestite.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-12-2015)
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, the definition of
“family” as set forth in §
90.02, §
90.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
90.04 of this chapter, shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by
division (B) below and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
90.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(A)(3) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-12-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
90.03 and except as exempted by §
90.03(B) and §
90.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (B)(3)(c)3. above.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-12-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following.
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-12-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or
participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-12-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.03,
90.04,
90.05, or
90.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-12-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether or not acting under code or
law, by force or threat of force, to willfully injure, intimidate or interfere
with, or attempt to injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, contracting, or negotiating
for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-12-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-12-2015)
§ 90.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-12-2015)
§ 90.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below, shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
city.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the city, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6. The Chief Elected Official of
the city shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above, for purposes of investigation, resolution, and
appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the city shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter,
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the city, or the Chief Elected
Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-12-2015)
§ 90.12 LANDLORD REGISTRATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Program established.
      (1)   Rental units within the community are a vital part of the fabric of
the city. They play a critical role in finding good and affordable living for
our residents. By reason of their operation, use, or occupancy, they affect or
are likely to affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
city.
      (2)   In many cases, identifying a landlord is very difficult due to the
property being registered under an L.L.C. or an out-of-state owner. Thus, it is
hard to hold negligent landlords accountable for properties that are negatively
impacting their tenants and the surrounding neighborhood. It is also very hard
to connect the dots and identify a bad landlord that owns many properties
around the city and is causing a burden on the tax payers to deal with their
code violations.
      (3)   The chronology of events before a property becomes abandoned, and
thus a financial and public health liability for the city, has shown in many of
those cases that the properties were poorly kept rentals. Property ownership
comes with responsibility, and when someone rents a property to the public,
there are additional responsibilities. Many properties that are poorly kept
have owners who are, and at times deliberately so, difficult to track down. To
address this issue, the Landlord Registration Program is hereby established.
   (B)   Authority. Effective June 30, 2014, House Enrolled Act No. 1403 (2014)
allows political subdivisions to establish and enforce registration and
inspection programs for rental units within the political subdivision, subject
to certain conditions and limitations.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicated or required a
different meaning.
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Code Enforcement or its designee.
      LANDLORD. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 32-31-3-3.
      OWNER. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 32-31-3-4.
      PERSON. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 32-31-3-5.
      RENTAL UNIT. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 32-31-3-8, with the sole
exception being an owner-occupied structure that has a single sleeping unit
being rented to a tenant.
      RENTAL UNIT COMMUNITY. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 36-1-20-1.5.
      TENANT. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 32-31-3-10.
   (D)   Registration program.
      (1)   Beginning on March 1, 2020, all owners or landlords of rental units
within the city must register with the department via a method or form
prescribed by the Board of Public Works and Safety. The registration form shall
include the following:
         (a)   The name, telephone number, and address of the owner;
         (b)   The name and address of:
            1.   A person residing in the state authorized to manage the rental
unit; and
            2.   A person who is authorized to act as agent for the owner for
purposes of service of process and receiving and receipting for notices and
demands, as provided in I.C. 32-31-3-18;
         (c)   An affirmation that the rental units, the real property of which
the rental units are a part, and any other rental unit property owned or
registered by the owner in the city, are not subject to an un-remediated
citation of violation of the state and local codes and ordinances;
         (d)   An affirmation that there are no delinquent real property taxes,
assessments, or penalties (other than those that are the subject of an ongoing
appeal) with respect to the property, or any other rental unit property owned
or registered by the owner in the county; and
         (e)   A statement of the number of rental units on each separate
parcel of real property covered by the registration.
      (2)   Beginning on March 1, 2020, an owner or landlord of a rental unit
must pay to the department an initial registration fee. Only one registration
fee is required for all rental units in a rental unit community. If a rental
unit is not part of a rental unit community, a separate registration fee must
be paid for each separate parcel of real property on which a rental unit is
located, unless they are all registered at the same time.
      (3)   In the event of a change of ownership, the new owner or landlord
must, not later than 30 days after the change of ownership, pay the
registration fee and provide updated registration information to the
department.
      (4)   Registrations must be renewed annually. The renewal fee may be
determined by the Department.
      (5)   The owner or landlord must notify the Department within 30 days of
any changes to registration information.
   (E)   Inspection program. The I.C. 36-1-20-4 inspection program will be
implemented to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Landlord Registration Fund.
      (1)   There is hereby created a special fund, to be designated as the
“Landlord Registration Fund.” This fund shall be a continuing, non-reverting
fund, with all balances remaining therein at the end of the year, and such
balances shall not revert to the city or county general funds.
      (2)   The controller shall deposit in this fund all fees assessed and
collected pertaining exclusively to a rental unit or rental unit community.
This Fund shall be dedicated solely to reimbursing the costs actually incurred
relating to the Landlord Registration Program.
   (G)   Penalties and enforcement.
      (1)   Failure to register as required is subject to admission of
violation and payment of a civil penalty for each rental unit or rental unit
community in violation in an amount provided by the Department.
      (2)   Failure to update the registration within 30 days of a change in
ownership as required is subject to admission of violation and payment of a
civil penalty for each rental or rental unit community in violation in an
amount provided by the Department.
      (3)   Failure to renew the registration each calendar year as required is
subject to admission of violation and payment of a civil penalty for each
rental or rental unit community in violation in an amount provided by the
Department.
      (4)   Failure to update the registration within 30 days of a change in
anything other than ownership required is subject to admission of violation and
payment of a civil penalty for each rental or rental unit community in
violation in an amount provided by the Department.
      (5)   In addition to civil penalties, the Department may seek injunctive
relief to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   The penalties allowed under subsections (G)(1) through (G)(4) above
may not be imposed until after:
         (a)   A notice of violation has been issued to the owner or the
owner’s designee by personal service or by first class United States Mail,
postage prepaid;
         (b)   Passage of 30 days, which must be stated in the notice, for the
violation to be cured; and
         (c)   Failure of the violation to be cured within the time stated in
the notice.
   (H)   Schedule of license and permit fees. The following fees are
established for their respective license and permits issued by the city.
 
License or Permit       Fee
Rental registry/renewal $5
 
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to §
10.99.   
   (B)   Whoever does any of the actions set forth in §
90.08 shall be fined according to local, state, and federal law; and if bodily
injury results, shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more
than ten years, or both; and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment
for any term of years or for life.
   (C)   The following code (or ordinance) provisions are their respective
civil penalties are designated for enforcement through the Ordinance Violations
Bureau under §
90.12.
 
Subject Matter                                             Civil Penalty
Failure to register as a landlord                          $500
Failure to renew annual registration as a landlord         $100
Failure to update the landlord registration upon change in $100
information, other than ownership
Failure to update the landlord registration upon change in $250
ownership
 
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-12-2015)
CHAPTER 91: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Trash and Public Nuisances
   
91.01   Purpose and intent
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Application of subchapter
   
91.04   Prohibited activity
   
91.05   Determination of violation; notice of violation
   
91.06   Enforcement
   
91.07   Property owner right to object to complaint
Environmental Public Nuisances
   
91.20   Purpose and intent
   
91.21   Definitions
   
91.22   Application of subchapter
   
91.23   Prohibited activity
   
91.24   Determination of violation; notice of violation
   
91.25   Enforcement
   
91.26   Property owner right to object to complaint
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Open burning, see §§
92.01 through
92.06
TRASH AND PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 91.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to protect the
public safety, health, and welfare, and to enhance the environment of the
people of the city by making it unlawful for any person to maintain, use,
create, cause, place, deposit, leave, or permit a nuisance to remain on any
property and to promote the health and general welfare of the people of the
city by prohibiting the throwing, casting, or depositing of litter in or upon
any private or public property within the city limits.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEE. An individual designated to make the necessary
inspections or any individual of any governmental department of the city, which
department has been designated by the Mayor to enforce this chapter. The
following departments may assist with enforcement of this chapter: The County
Sheriff’s Department,; County Health Department; County Area Plan; Jonesboro
Police Department; City Code Enforcement; and the Street/Utility Department.
   CITY. The City of Jonesboro.
   GOVERNMENTAL PROPERTY. Real estate within the city which is owned, leased,
controlled, or occupied by the United States, the state, or any political
subdivision thereof.
   OFFICER. An employee of the Code Enforcement Department or any other
government department of the city so authorized by the Mayor having law
enforcement powers to issue a city ordinance violation summons in order to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter or those involved in the county under
county nuisance ordinances.
   OWNER. Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners in fee simple of a parcel of real estate,
including the life tenant, if any;
       (2)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the most current
records in the township assessor’s office of the township in which real estate
is located; or
      (3)   The purchaser or purchasers of such real estate under any contract
for the conditional sale thereof.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All real estate within the city except governmental
property.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Whatever is injurious to health, safety, or welfare of the
citizens, or indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free
use of property, so as essentially to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment
of life or property. The following is a list of PUBLIC NUISANCES, but does not
limit the conditions constituting a nuisance under this subchapter it is
unlawful for any person to maintain, use, create, cause, place, deposit, leave,
or permit a nuisance to remain on any property within the city, including:
      (1)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber, ashes, filth, excrement, boards, slops, cinders, old
tires, pallets, sawdust, wood or metal shavings, rubber, boxes, barrels,
crates, cans, bottles, cartons, paper, debris, manure, grass cuttings, tree
limbs, discarded food, clothing, parts from bikes, cycles, vehicles, lawn
mowers, household items such as washers or dryer, refrigerators, hot water
heaters, and the like, or any other offensive or disagreeable substance
(meaning not orderly, stacked, packed, racked, stored, or in containers, and
with the following exception: compost pile);
      (2)   Any condition which provides harborage of rats, mice, snakes, and
other vermin and/or carcasses of animals or fowls, not disposed of within a
reasonable time;
      (3)   Disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of those odors and stenches; other than which originate from
customary agricultural or industrial practice;
      (4)   Any building or other structures on property which is in such
dilapidated condition that it is unfit for human habitation or kept in such an
unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health or safety of the people
residing in the vicinity thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous
fire hazard in the vicinity where it is located;
      (5)   Unauthorized obstruction of any public street, road, alley, or
sidewalk creating a public nuisance;
      (6)   Accumulation of stagnant water;
      (7)   Any abandoned, unattended, or discarded freezer, refrigerator, or
other container which has an airtight door or lid, without first removing the
door or lid from the freezer, refrigerator, container, or leaving such items on
property not being used;
      (8)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal,
or body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial waste, or other
substances;
      (9)   No trash, refuse, brush, or garbage shall be removed, hauled, or
conveyed within the city limits, unless the vehicles used for removal, hauling,
or conveying is rightly covered by screen, and driven in a manner that none of
the contents may be spilled, dropped, or blown from it;
      (10)   It shall be a nuisance to permit furniture designed for interior
use or household furnishings to be placed outside any structure, unless placed
for refuse collections;
      (11)   It shall be a nuisance to maintain a swimming pool 42 inches or
more deep without being secured by fences or gates. The County Area Plan will
be responsible for issuing permits for a fence over six feet and the city shall
issue permits for those six feet and under; and
      (12)   It shall be a nuisance to fill land with materials other than that
allowed by state law.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 91.03 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Each department or agency of the United States, the state, or any
political subdivision thereof shall be required to keep governmental property
free from public nuisances.
   (B)   Any owner of private property shall be required to keep that private
property free from public nuisances.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of private property or government
property to allow a public nuisance to exist on that property even of owner is
a landlord or management firm for the rentals or property that is vacated or
under some form of construction.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Code Enforcement Department shall forward any complaint to the officer
for processing, who, in turn, shall visually inspect the property in question.
If the officer determines that a violation exists, he or she shall issue a
notice of violation as provided below.
   (A)   Notice to abate. When a complaint addresses a private property, the
officer through the Code Enforcement Department shall cause a written notice to
abate to be served upon the owner of property in question, granting that owner
a minimum of ten calendar days in which to remove the public nuisance. This
notice shall be served by certified mail and regular mail to the owner and by a
notice place card conspicuously posted on the property which mail and notice
shall contain the following information the (the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
shall assist with this process): the address of the property; the date of the
notice; the name of the city enforcing this subchapter; the address of the
city; the telephone number of the city authorized employee and/or officer and
warning that if the public nuisance is not removed within ten calendar days
after the posting, the city has the right to enter on the property to abate
and/or correct the condition and bill the owner for costs incurred in so doing
and/or file a court action against the owner for an ordinance violation.
   (B)   Inspection. Following the expiration of the notice to abate, the
authorized employee and/or officer shall visually inspect the property to
determine whether a public nuisance still exists. If a public nuisance exists,
action shall be taken to abate that nuisance in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (C)   Abatement by city on governmental property. Where the complaint for
nuisance addresses governmental property and it is determined by the authorized
employee and/or officer that a violation exists and threatens the health and/or
safety of the people of the city, the authorized employee and/or officer may
direct the city to immediately enter upon the premises and remove the nuisance.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 91.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Citation. If the officer/Code Enforcement finds that a public nuisance
exists on private property and has not been abated as directed in the written
notice to abate, that officer may cause a citation for violation of a city
ordinance to be issued to the offending property owner after a five-day period.
   (B) Abatement by city on private property. In addition to the issuance of a
citation for the violation of a city ordinance under division (A) above, the
officer/Code Enforcement may determine that an emergency exists and direct the
city to immediately enter upon the property and remove the public nuisance. The
Street/Utility Department, shall thereafter furnish the Mayor with a statement
of actual cost involved in the removal of the public nuisance. The actual
abatement may be assigned to a city department or contracted out through
standard procedures.
   (C)   Responsibility of offender for costs of enforcement.
      (1)   (a)   The Code Enforcement Department and the Street/Utility
Superintendent shall make a statement, in a timely manner, of the costs
incurred in eliminating the public nuisance.
      (b)   The cost shall include: cost of removal of the public nuisance,
administrative fees, attorney fees if court ordered enforcement is necessary,
and all recording fees associated with the collection of the outstanding
balances. Attorney and court cost shall be paid by the offender. Grant County
may enforce action within the system.
      (c)   All costs shall be forwarded to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
to collect and/or file liens. The Clerk Treasurer may forward to the City
Attorney to create a follow up letter prior to filing a lien.
      (2)   The following fees shall be charged:
Administrative Fees
These fees would cover such administration tasks as inspecting the
property to determine violation, to determine compliance, determining     $500
ownership, and preparing and mailing notices. (No fee would be charged if
no violation is found.)
Labor and Fees
The following labor fees per person, per hour or fraction thereof for labor
necessary to abate a public nuisance.
Operator/Driver/Labor w/o CDL                                             $28
Operator/Driver/Labor w/o CDL                                             $28
Supervisor (or current rate)                                              $38
Equipment Fees
The following equipment fees per machine, per hour or fraction thereof, for
the use of each piece of equipment necessary to abate the public nuisance.
Pick-up                                                                   $20
Trash/bush hog                                                            $30
Backhoe                                                                   $30
Dump truck                                                                $30
Packer                                                                    $30
Loader (or current rate)                                                  $30
Land Filling Fees 
Any land filling fees actually incurred to dispose of litter and waste
products removed
Other Fees
Any other reasonable fees actually incurred in abating a public nuisance. Said
statement shall be delivered to the property owners by first class mail. The
owner shall pay the amount noted to the city within ten days after receipt,
which shall be deposited in the General Fund.
 
   (D)   Failure to pay. If the owner fails to pay the amount within ten days
after receiving the statement, the Code Enforcement Department shall institute
action necessary to collect the debt under divisions (D)(1), (D)(2), and/or (D)
(3) below.
      (1)   A copy of all costs as described in division (C) above may be filed
in the office of the County Auditor for the purpose of placing the amount
claimed on the tax duplicate against the property, so that the amount claimed
can be collected as taxes are collected.
      (2)   The city may seek the recovery of costs plus as described in
division (C) above in the county courts.
      (3)   The city may allow the citation for costs to be paid to the
Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 91.07 PROPERTY OWNER RIGHT TO OBJECT TO COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a notice to abate, the property owner or his or her
duly authorized representative may notify the Code Enforcement Department of
intent to object to any notice to abate.
   (B)   This correspondence shall be in writing and shall specify the street
address involved. Any such correspondence must be received by the Code
Enforcement Department within the amount of time set out in the notice to
abate.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such correspondence, the Code Enforcement Department
shall provide copies of same to the City Attorney and to the office involved in
the violation, who shall cause the objection to be investigated. No further
action shall be pursued against the owner to abate the public nuisance until
resolution of the objection thereto.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022)
ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 91.20 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to protect the
public safety, health, welfare, and enhance the environment of the people of
the city by making it unlawful to allow an environmental public nuisance to
exist in or upon any private or public property within the city limits.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 91.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEE. An individual designated to make environmental public
nuisance inspections or any individual(s) of any governmental department of the
city, which department has been designated by the Mayor to enforce this
subchapter.
   CITY. The City of Jonesboro.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any of the following constitute an
environmental public nuisance:
      (1)   Any growth of weeds, grass, or other rank vegetation on private or
governmental property which is neglected, disregarded, or not cut, mowed, or
otherwise removed and/or which has attained a height of nine inches or more
from the edge of the street to alley, around any sign and/or street or in front
of signs;
      (2)   Any accumulation of dead weeds, grass, brush, trees, or woody
growth on private or governmental property (with the following exception: a
compost pile);
      (3)   Any poison ivy, ragweed, or other poisonous plant or plants
detrimental to health, growing on any private or governmental property;
      (4)   Any vegetation, trees, or woody growth on private property which
due to its proximity to any governmental property, right-of-way, or easement,
interferes with the public safety or lawful use of the governmental property,
right-of-way, easement, or which has been allowed to become a health or safety
hazard; or
      (5)   No grass or weeds may be blown into the streets or into city
drains; such become a safety issue.
   EXCLUDED PROPERTY. Any of the following may constitute excluded property:
      (1)   Land cultivated in a commercial, agricultural, or horticultural
zone;
      (2)   An existing natural or developed forest which does not create a
health or safety hazard;
      (3)   Vacant open lands, fields, or wooded areas more than 150 feet from
occupied property;
      (4)   A nature habitat area more than 150 feet from an occupied structure
on adjacent property and determined not to be a health or safety hazard; or
      (5)   A wetland area designated by United States Department of Interior
Fish and Wildlife Division on a National Wetlands Inventory Maps.
   GOVERNMENTAL PROPERTY. Real estate within the city which is owned, leased,
controlled, or occupied by the United States, the state, or any political
subdivision thereof; excluding areas such as interior fields, river bank
properties, and wooded lots which are maintained as natural sites by any such
political entity.
   OFFICER. An employee of the Code Enforcement Department, police officers, or
any other governmental department of the city so authorized by the Mayor, may
issue city ordinance violation summons in order to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter. The city Street/Utility Department and the Clerk Treasurer’s
office shall assist with city code enforcement of this violation.
   OWNER. Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners in fee simple of a parcel of real estate
including the life tenant or tenants if any;
      (2)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the most current records
in the County Assessor’s office of the township in which the real estate is
located; or
      (3)   The purchaser or purchasers of such real estate under any contract
for the conditional sale thereof.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All real estate within the city except governmental
property.
   TRAFFIC HAZARD. Any environmental public nuisance that is potentially
dangerous to the existing traffic at the intersection in question, as it may
block or prohibit the view of any oncoming traffic.
   WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION. Any plant which grows to a height of nine inches
where it is not wanted, such as around fire hydrants, curbs, the edge of the
street or alley, street signs, and/or easements areas.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 91.22 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Each department or agency of the United States, the state, or any
political subdivision thereof, shall be required to keep governmental property
free from environmental public nuisances.
   (B)   Any owner of private property shall be required to keep that private
property free from environmental public nuisances.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022)) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any owner of private property
or governmental property to allow an environmental public nuisance to exist on
that property, unless the property is excluded property.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Complaint. Any department of the city which receives a complaint
regarding environmental public nuisance within the city shall forward that
complaint to the Code Enforcement Department.
   (B)   Assignment of complaint. The Code Enforcement Department shall
thereafter forward the complaint to the officer for processing, who, in turn,
shall visually inspect the property in question. If the officer determines that
a violation exists, they shall issue a notice of violation as provided below.
   (C)   Notice to abate.   When a complaint addresses private property, the
officer through the Code Enforcement Department shall cause a written notice to
abate to be served upon the owner of the property in question, granting that
owner a minimum of ten calendar days in which to remove the environmental
nuisance. This notice shall be served by certified mail and regular mail to the
owner and by a notice place card conspicuously posted on the property, which
mail and notice shall contain the following information: The address of the
property; the date of the notice; the name of the agency enforcing this
subchapter; the address of the agency; the phone number of the agency; and a
warning that if the environmental public nuisance is not removed within ten
calendar days after the posting; and notice that the city has the right to
enter on the property to abate and/or correct the condition and bill the owner
for costs incurred in so doing and/or file a court action against the owner for
an ordinance violation.
   (D)   Exception to notice to abate requirement. If the officer finds a
violation which constitutes a traffic hazard, the officer shall find it
necessary to waive the ten-day grace period and abate the problem as soon as
possible.
   (E)   Inspection. Following the expiration of the notice to abate an officer
shall visually inspect the property to determine whether an environmental
public nuisance still exists. If an environmental public nuisance exists,
action shall be taken to abate that nuisance in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (F)   Publication of notice on certain environmental public nuisances. In
lieu of the notice required by division (C) above, the Code Enforcement
Department, through the authorized employee, officer, and/or the Clerk-
Treasurer shall publish notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city, on two separate occasions during the month of April, that if any
environmental public nuisance violations are not corrected by May 15 of that
year, such violations shall be cut and/or removed by the Code Enforcement
Department and the owner of the property charged with the costs under the
provision of §§
91.25 and
91.99 below. The publication shall contain all the information required of the
notice to abate in environmental public nuisance violations such as weeds,
grass, or other rank vegetation and shall allow the city to correct such
violations as many times as is necessary to comply with this subchapter and
charge the actual costs to the property owner.
   (G)   Continuous abatement notice on certain environmental public nuisances.
After providing an initial notice of the violation of an environmental public
nuisance such as weeds, grass, or other rank vegetation under division (C)
above, a continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time
of abatement instead of certified mail or equivalent service. Such continuous
abatement notice shall allow the city to correct such violation as many times
as necessary to comply with this subchapter and charge the actual costs to the
owner.
   (H)   Abatement by city on government property. Where the complaint
addresses governmental property and it is determined by the officer that a
violation exists and threatens the health and safety of the people of the city,
the officer may direct the city to immediately enter upon the premises and
remove the environmental public nuisance.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Citation for violation. If the authorized employee and/or officer
finds that a public nuisance and/or environmental public nuisance exists on
private property and has not been abated as directed in the written notice to
abate, that employee may cause a citation for violation of a city ordinance to
be issued to the offending property owner.
   (B)   Abatement by city on private property. In addition to the issuance of
a citation for violation of city ordinances under division (A) above, the
officer/Code Enforcement may determine that an emergency exists and direct the
city to immediately enter upon the property and remove the public nuisance. The
Street/Utility Department, shall thereafter furnish the Mayor with a statement
of actual cost involved in the removal of the public nuisance. The actual
abatement may be assigned to a city department or contracted out through
standard procedures.
   (C)   Responsibility of offender for costs of enforcement.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Department shall work with the Street
Supervisor and the Mayor in eliminating the environmental public nuisance cost.
The costs shall include: the cost of removal of the environmental public
nuisances; administrative fees; attorney fees if court ordered enforcement is
necessary; and all recording fees associated with the collection of outstanding
balances.
      (2)   The following fees shall be charged:
Administrative Fees
These fees would cover such administration tasks as inspecting the
property to determine the violation, to determine compliance,      $500
determining ownership, and preparing and mailing notices. (No fee
would be charged if no violation is found.)
Labor and Fees
The following labor fees per person, per hour or fraction thereof for labor
necessary to abate a public nuisance.
Operator/Driver/Labor w/o CDL                                      $28
Operator/Driver/Labor w/o CDL                                      $28
Supervisor (or current rate)                                       $38
Equipment Fees
The following equipment fees per machine, per hour or fraction thereof, for
the use of each piece of equipment necessary to abate the environmental
public nuisance.
Pick-up                                                               $20
Trash/bush hog                                                         $30
Backhoe                                                                $30
Dump truck                                                             $30
Equipment Fees                                                      
Packer                                                                 $30
Loader                                                              
(or current rate)                                                     $30
Land Filling Fees 
Any land filling fees actually incurred to dispose of litter and waste
products removed
Attorney Fees
This fee shall cover the legal time on an hourly basis necessary to enforce
this subchapter in court for each violation.
Other Fees                                                         
Any other reasonable fees actually incurred in abating a public nuisance.
Said statement shall be delivered to the property owners by first class
mail. The owner shall pay the amount noted to the city within ten days
after receipt, which shall be deposited in the General Fund.
 
   (D)   Failure to pay. If owner fails to pay the amount within ten days after
receiving the statement, the Code Enforcement Department shall institute action
necessary to collect the debt under division (D)(1), (D)(2), and/or (D)(3)
below:
      (1)   A copy of all costs as described in division (C) above may be filed
in the office of the County Auditor for the purpose of placing the amount
claimed on the tax duplicate against the property, so that the amount claimed
can be collected as taxes are collected.
      (2)   The city may seek recovery of the costs as described above in
division (C) above in the County Courts as the Common Council may select.
      (3)   The city may allow the citation for costs as described in division
(C) above to be paid to the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 91.26 PROPERTY OWNER RIGHT TO OBJECT TO COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a notice to abate, the property owner or his or her
duly authorized representative may notify the Code Enforcement Department of
intent to object to any notice to abate.
   (B)   This correspondence shall be in writing and shall specify the street
address involved. Any such correspondence must be received by the Code
Enforcement Department within the amount of time set out in the notice to
abate.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such correspondence, the Code Enforcement Department
shall provide copies of same to the City Attorney and to the office involved in
the violation, who shall cause the objection to be investigated. No further
action shall be pursued against the owner to abate the public nuisance and/or
environmental public nuisance until resolution of the objection thereto.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who creates a nuisance as listed under the definition
of “public nuisance” in §
91.02 who deposits such as stated in section a of this chapter upon any public
areas such as right of ways, parks, easements, streets, and/or public parking
areas or public buildings or land owned by the city shall have created a public
nuisance and be fined for such a violation without warning, being a fine of $50
to $250 per day until corrected. The city/county may also charge to correct
both in use of equipment, labor, or outside contractor. Such cost also may
include attorney’s fees and court costs.
      (2)   Any property owner(s), landlords, or tenants who allow anyone, that
may or may not reside at said property, to bring in material that creates a
public nuisance on the property. After a five-day grace period to correct the
situation shall be fined $50 to $250 per day to correct as an ordinance
violation plus the cost of city/county or outside contractor to correct the
situation in both cost of labor and equipment. Such cost may include cost of
attorney’s fees and court cost.
      (3)   If property owner(s), landlords, or renters who may not allow such,
but a public nuisance has been created by someone unknown are still responsible
for such a public nuisance and after a five- day grace period to correct the
situation shall be fined $50 to $250 per day to correct plus the cost of city,
county, or outside contractor to correct the situation in both cost of labor or
equipment. Such cost may include cost of attorney’s fees and court cost. Code
Enforcement may work with those involved to correct the problem within a
reasonable time.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
91.06 shall be deemed to have committed an ordinance violation and upon
conviction, shall be fined not less than $50 and not more than $2,500. Each day
a violation continues after an action has been commenced to abate the nuisance
that nuisance shall constitute a separate ordinance violation. No additional
notice under §
91.06 shall be required to initiate separate actions once an action has been
against the person violating §
91.06.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
91.25 shall be deemed to have $50 and not more than $2,500. Each day a
violation continues after an action has been commenced to abate the
environmental public nuisance that nuisance shall constitute a separation
ordinance violation. No additional notice under §
91.25 shall be required to initiate separate actions once an action has been
against the person violating §
91.25.
(Ord. 4-2022, passed 5-10-2022)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Open Burning
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Prohibitions against burning
   
92.03   Exemptions
   
92.04   Conditions applicable to exemptions and variances
   
92.05   Enforcement authority
   
92.06   Enforcement procedures
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Donations Fund, see § 31.18
   Fire restrictions in parks, see §
96.21
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE CONTAINER. A non-combustible, 55-gallon barrel or drum sufficiently
vented to induce adequate primary combustion air with enclosed sides, a bottom,
and a mesh covering with openings no larger than one-quarter inch square.
   AIR POLLUTANTS. Any substances such as cinder fly ash, smoke fumes, gas
mist, and offensive odors.
   AIR POLLUTION.  The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of substances in
quantities, having characteristics and being of duration which are with
reasonable certainty injurious to human life and property or which unreasonably
interfere with the enjoyment of life and property due to the emission of odors,
vapors, liquids, or gases.
   COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS. Any waste or substance which is easily inflammable
such as tree leaves, papers, cartons, paper boxes, dry limbs, or dry grass
cuttings.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer or their
designated agents.
   NON-COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS. Any waste material or substance not easily
flammable, such as clothing, bedding, garbage, fresh grass clippings, fresh
tree leaves, mattresses, tires or other rubber products, automobile hunks,
furniture, rugs, rags, cans, waste foodstuff, dead animals, animal excrement,
sawdust, and any material which is subject to slow combustion usually emitting
smoke, offensive odors, fumes, gases, or similar pollutants.
   NUISANCE. Environmental conditions, intermittent or continuous, produced or
correctable by a person, prejudicial to the reasonable enjoyment of health,
comfort, or safety of an individual or causing injury or damage to persons and
property.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the air, without passing
through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
   SMOKE. Any small gas borne particles resulting from incomplete combustion
and present in sufficient quantity to be visually observable.
   SOURCE. Any real or personal property or person contributing to air
pollution.
   VIOLATOR. A person contributing to air pollution in violation of standards
established in this section.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 92.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow, or maintain any form of
open burning of any materials on private or public property, except as
specifically authorized by this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall allow the accumulation or existence of combustible
material that constitutes open burning.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of burning are allowed:
   (A)   Outdoor cooking. The burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood, and
other cooking fuels customarily used in an outdoor grill, traditional food
cooking devices, or campfires.
   (B)   Recreational or ceremonial fires. Fires used for recreational or
ceremonial purposes such as school pep rally fires or the celebration of
scouting activities. Recreational or ceremonial fires shall meet the following
conditions.
      (1)   Only clean untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper or
petroleum products can be used for ignition purposes only.
       (2)   The fire shall not be ignited more than two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity.
      (3)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1,000 cubic feet (for
example: ten feet by ten feet by ten feet).
      (4)   The Fire Department shall be notified 24 hours in advance if the
pile to be burned is more than 125 cubic feet (for example: five feet by five
feet by five feet).
      (5)   The fire shall not be for disposal purposes.
      (6)   The fire shall not be within 500 feet of a pipeline or fuel storage
area.
   (C)   Campfire. A CAMPFIRE is a fire that is no larger than three feet in
diameter, and no deeper than 16 inches in depth. IN DEPTH means 16 inches above
ground level. A campfire shall be supervised by a person age 18 or older at all
times.
   (D)   Burning of combustible materials. Burning of combustible materials in
an adequate container is permitted only in the following instances.
      (1)   The burning takes place on property which contains either no
buildings or structures or which contains a residential structure with no more
than two units. No burning may take place in apartment complexes or mobile home
parks.
      (2)   The burning takes place at a distance of five or more feet from any
combustible product including buildings, automobiles, or any structure.
      (3)   The burning does not take place on the sidewalks, streets, or on
the grounds in front of the building.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 92.04 CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO EXEMPTIONS AND VARIANCES.
   The following conditions apply to all exemptions and variances.
   (A)   Only wood and paper products shall be burned.
   (B)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
   (C)   Fires shall be extinguished if the Police Chief or Code Enforcement
Officer, or their designated agents determine that they are a nuisance, fire
hazard, or air pollution problem.
   (D)   All burning of combustible materials in adequate containers described
above must occur between 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. and shall be totally
extinguished at 7:00 p.m. (except campfires). If the daylight hours end before
7:00 p.m., the fire must be extinguished when the daylight hours end.
   (E)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds, or stagnation. The
Police Chief, Fire Chief, or Code Enforcement Officer, or their designated
agents may determine that meteorological conditions are unfavorable for burning
and may order that any and all fires be extinguished at such times.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The open burning provisions are enforceable by the duly appointed Police
Chief or Code Enforcement Officer or their designated agents within the city,
acting on their own initiative or at the request of the Common Council.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 92.06 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   Any person found in violation of this subchapter shall be subject to the
following procedures:
   (A)   The Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer or their designated agent
shall issue a warning notice to a first-time violator stating that he or she is
in violation. The person must then correct the violation immediately by
extinguishing the fire. Failure or refusal to immediately extinguish the fire
shall result in a citation being issued.
   (B)   Failure or refusal by the violator to immediately extinguish the fire
in violation of this subchapter shall also result in the Police Chief, Fire
Chief, or Code Enforcement Officer or their designated agents having the
authority to go upon private property to extinguish said fire.
   (C)   Each subsequent starting, kindling, causing, or allowing of a new fire
after a warning notice or citation has been issued, shall be considered a
separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible
material which constitutes or contributes to open burning may not refute
liability for violation of this subchapter on the basis that said fire was set
by vandals, accidental, or act of God.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a citation as set forth in §
92.06, the violator shall be fined not less than $50 for the first offense, $75
for the second offense, $125 for the third offense, and $200 for the fourth
offense. The violator shall pay all attorney fees, expert’s fees and court
costs incurred by the city enforcing §§
92.01 through
92.06.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-12-2012)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Adopting the Grant County Abandoned Vehicles Ordinance
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   General rules
   
93.04   Enforcement authority
   
93.05   Identification of abandoned vehicle
   
93.06   Marking, reporting, and possession
   
93.07   Report to bureau of motor vehicles; tracing of owner
   
93.08   Disposal of vehicle if owner or leinholder fails to appear
   
93.09   Responsibility of owner
   
93.10   Abandoned vehicle account
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking regulations, see
Chapter 71
   Public nuisances, see
Chapter 91
§ 93.01 ADOPTING THE GRANT COUNTY ABANDONED VEHICLES ORDINANCE.
   The city shall adopt the County Abandoned Vehicles ordinance as written with
the following noted exceptions.
   (A)   The city has a contract with Page’s Towing for towing services, the
city officers and/or Code Enforcement shall work with Page’s Towing on all
reporting of vehicles or parts being reported to State Bureau of Motor
Vehicles.
   (B)   The following shall be included under §
94.22, the Police Department, and/or code enforcement officers.
   (C)   Any city police officers or code enforcement officer who writes a
citation needs to follow up on action or inform the Police Chief of such action
and all city officers shall follow the county ordinance with exceptions as
written.
   (D)   Penalties shall reflect the county ordinance, except city police
officers or City Code Enforcement shall send penalties through the City
Ordinance Violation Bureau handled by the Clerk-Treasurer who shall set up
established accounts.
   (E)   City officers (Police Chief or Captain or Code Enforcement) may, as
needed, call the County Area Plan Commission and others in helping and
assisting the city or such may take necessary action.
(Ord. 24-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Includes:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle located on public property in a manner as to constitute a
hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle traffic on a
public right-of-way;
      (3)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission, or differential or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property;
      (4)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for 72 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner, or person in control of that property, for more than 72 hours;
(nothing in this statute shall prevent a property owner from removing, at any
time and in any lawful manner, a vehicle left on his or her own property
without his or her consent, except in a case where the owner of the vehicle
also resides on the property where the vehicle is left. If the owner requests
the county’s assistance in removal of the vehicle, however, this statute
governs all stages of the removal);
      (6)   A vehicle that does not have a current and valid license plate or
an Affidavit of Nonuse -State Form 56164 (a maximum five vehicles per property
can be registered with State Form 56164) and/or from which there has been
removed the engine, transmission or differential or that is otherwise
dismantled or inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a
location visible from public property for more than 20 days;
      (7)   A vehicle that does not have a current and valid license plate or
an Affidavit of Nonuse-State Form 56164 (a maximum five vehicles per property
can be registered with State Form 56164) and/or is three or more model years
old and mechanically inoperable and is left in a location visible from public
property for more than 20 days;
      (8)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance of this
subchapter if the vehicle once impounded is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or his or her agent within 15 days of its removal; or
      (9)   The following described vehicles do not fit within the definition
of “abandoned vehicles;”
         (a)   Vehicles and attachments specifically designed and owned for
agricultural purposes and kept on property used for that purpose;
         (b)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adopted, modified
or constructed for operation on privately-owned raceways, to include derby
cars;
         (c)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the Armed Forces
of the United States who is on an active duty assignment;
         (d)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial
servicing facility, operated in accordance with
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances;
         (e)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an
automobile scrapyard;
         (f)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12-1 et seq.
as an antique vehicle;
         (g)   A vehicle being dismantled to keep another vehicle in running
condition if the owner hauls away the dismantled vehicle after a 60-day period
has expired; and
         (h)   A vehicle concealed in a garage or other building, with the
owner’s knowledge and consent.
   OWNER. The last record titleholder of a vehicle according to the records of
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-13-2-121.
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that as assembled do not constitute a
complete vehicle and are placed in the same manner as an “abandoned vehicle.”
   PERSON. Any individual, firm partnership, association, corporation, company,
fiduciary, government entity, or organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property within the county.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other state, county, or municipal property located within the county.
   TOWING SERVICE. A business that engages in moving or removing disabled
vehicles and, once removed, to store or impound vehicles.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground or in the air by use of wheels, treads, runners,
slides, or similar devices, and transport persons or property, or pull
machinery, and includes, but is not limited to, the automobile, motorcycle,
truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor, bus, school bus, recreational vehicle,
motorized bicycle, buggy, and wagon.
(Ord. 24-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 93.03 GENERAL RULES.
   No person shall leave an abandoned vehicle, as described above in §
94.20, or parts, as described above in §
94.20, on public or private property in the unincorporated county.
(Ord. 24-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Sheriff’s Department, Health Officer, employees of the County Plan
Commission and the Nuisance Abatement Officer of the county (hereafter
collectively called “officer”) are hereby authorized to enforce this subchapter
in accord with the procedure described below.
(Ord. 24-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 93.05 IDENTIFICATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   Abandoned vehicles shall be identified in the following manner.
   (A)   If the officer finds a vehicle he or she believes to be an abandoned
vehicle, he or she may immediately follow the procedures set forth below in §§
93.06 through
93.10.
   (B)   Upon complaint of a private property owner or person in control of the
property that a vehicle has been left on the property for 48 hours or more
without the consent of the owner or person in control, an officer shall follow
the procedures set forth in §§
93.06 through
93.10 (I.C. 9-22-1-18).
   (C)   (1)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a
person other than the owner and the person cannot establish his or her right to
the possession of that vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall be notified within 72 hours
of the location and the description of the vehicle. Upon receipt of
notification, the Bureau shall cause a search to be made to determine and
notify the owner in accordance with §
93.09.
      (2)   If the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined, the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles shall declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for its disposal
in accordance with this subchapter.
      (3)   If the properly identified owner or lienholder appears at the site
of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all proper costs
incurred against it at that time, then the vehicle or parts shall be released.
A copy of the release of all vehicles or parts shall be sent to the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles. The release must contain the owner or lienholder’s signature,
name, address, vehicle or parts description, costs and date of release.
      (4)   If the vehicle is not released to the owner or lienholder, the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for
disposal in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 24-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 93.06 MARKING, REPORTING, AND POSSESSION.
   (A)   An officer who finds a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned shall
attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency, and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours or, if the
vehicle fits in §
93.02, after 20 days;
      (4)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to the
removal, storage, and disposal, and if not paid the owner’s registration
privileges will be suspended on that car; and
      (5)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts within
96 hours, or within 20 days if the vehicle fits in §
93.02.
   (B)   If the tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within that 72-hour
period or the 20-day period, if applicable, the officer or his or her designee
under the supervision of the officer may prepare a citation as specified herein
or take action for the removal of the vehicle or parts as specified in §
93.02.
   (C)   The officer may cause a citation for violation of a county ordinance
to be issued to the offending property owner. The court may order the county to
remove the vehicle and parts or may impose an injunction upon the owner of the
property. Each day a violation continues after an action has been commenced
shall constitute a separate ordinance violation. No additional notice under
this subchapter shall be required to initiate these separate actions once an
action has been commenced against the person violating this subchapter.
   (D)   If the officer is causing removal, he or she or his or her designee
shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts,
including information on the condition, missing parts and other facts that
might substantiate that the market value is less than $500. Photographs shall
be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
   (E)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is less than $500, the officer, or his or her designee under
the supervision of the officer, shall immediately dispose of the vehicle to an
automobile scrapyard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and photographs
relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the Bureau. The public
agency shall retain the original records and photographs for at least two
years.
   (F)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is $500 or more, the officer, before placing a notice tag on
the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the owner or
person who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 96 hours, the
officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage area.
(Ord. 24-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 93.07 REPORT TO BUREAU OF MOTOR VEHICLES; TRACING OF OWNER.
   (A)   Within 72 hours after removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage
area under this subchapter, the officer, or his or her designee under the
supervision of the officer, shall prepare and forward to the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles an abandoned vehicle report containing a description of the vehicle
including tire make, model, engine number, if any, identification number, and
the number of the license plate, and request that the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
advise the office of the name and most recent mailing address of the owner and
any leinholder.
   (B)   The Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall:
      (1)   Conduct a reasonable search through the National Automobile Theft
Bureau and the State Police Department to determine whether the vehicle or
parts have been reported as stolen;
      (2)   Conduct a reasonable search of Bureau records to determine the
owner of the vehicle or parts or lienholder of record;
      (3)   If a reasonable search discloses the name and address of the owner
or lienholder, mail a written notice, by first class mail, to:
         (a)   The owner, with a copy to any lienholder if the Bureau disposes
of the vehicle; and
         (b)   The officer, indicating that the vehicle or parts have been
impounded at a certain location and must be removed within 15 days of the date
of mailing of the notice and advising that the vehicle or parts will be
disposed of after that time.
      (4)   The Bureau or the officer shall further advise the owner or any
lienholder that all costs incurred in removing and storing the vehicle or parts
are his or her legal responsibility.
(Ord. 24-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 93.08 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE IF OWNER OR LEINHOLDER FAILS TO APPEAR.
   (A)   If the vehicle or parts are in a condition that vehicle identification
numbers or other means of identification are not available to determine the
owner or lienholder, the vehicle may be disposed of without notice by the
county.
   (B)   If the owner or lienholder does not appear within 15 days after
mailing of notice, the county shall sell the vehicle or parts to the highest
bidder at a public sale conducted after notice under I.C. 5-3-1, except only
one newspaper insertion one week before the public sale is required. The county
may elect to sell the vehicle or parts as unclaimed property in accordance with
I.C. 36-1-11, except that the 15-day period for the property to remain
unclaimed is sufficient.
   (C)   The purchaser shall be furnished a bill of sale for each abandoned
vehicle sold by the Bureau or the county. The fee for the bill of sale is $6.
Should the purchaser wish to obtain a title for the vehicle acquired, he or she
shall present evidence from a law enforcement agency that the vehicle is
roadworthy and pay the appropriate title fee.
(Ord. 24-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 93.09 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment
and is liable, to the extent of the market value of the vehicle, for all costs
incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle or the parts.
   (B)   Neither the owner, lessee, or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed nor a public agency, towing service, or
automobile scrapyard is liable for loss or damage to the vehicle or parts
occurring during its removal, storage, or disposition.
(Ord. 24-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 93.10 ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The county shall keep an abandoned vehicle account to help defray the
costs of enforcing this subchapter. To this end, the Unsafe Building Fund, as
previously established by Chapter 150, will be used as this account, and
heretofore, shall be called the Joint Abatement, Abandoned Vehicle, and Unsafe
Building Fund and operated in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-14 and I.C. 9-22-1-
27.
   (B)   The costs of towing, storing, and removing and disposing of an
abandoned vehicle shall be allocated as follows.
      (1)   The owner or lienholder shall pay the cost in an amount not in
excess of $150 and in all cases not to exceed the fair market value of the car.
      (2)   The rest of the cost shall be paid from the abandoned vehicles
account.
      (3)   The owner or lienholder shall be able to reclaim a vehicle in
storage only after all costs are paid and a reclamation fee of $50 is paid to
the abandoned vehicle account.
   (C)   All proceeds from the sale shall be deposited with the County Auditor
and placed by him or her in the county’s abandoned vehicle account.
(Ord. 24-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to
have committed an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined not
less than $50 per vehicle and not more than $2,500 total.
(Ord. 24-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Adoption; exemptions
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Application
   
94.04   Rabies vaccination
   
94.05   Finding of rabies; general quarantine
   
94.06   Animals under restraint at all times
   
94.07   Unrestrained animals impounded
   
94.08   Animals becoming a nuisance
   
94.09   Animal bites
   
94.10   Treatment and care of animals
   
94.11   Care of livestock
   
94.12   Use of ropes, chains, or cords prohibited
   
94.13   Mistreated animals impounded
   
94.14   Animals in enclosures
   
94.15   Removal of excrement
   
94.16   Injury/death from motor vehicles
   
94.17   Animals not to be left unattended in vehicles
   
94.18   Aggressive (vicious) animals
   
94.19   Traps as a nuisance or assistance
   
94.20   Removal of dead animals
   
94.21   Unlawful use of an animal
   
94.22   Lost or stray domestic animals
   
94.23   Animal Control Officer
   
94.24   Impoundment fee
   
94.25   Grounds for impoundment
   
94.26   Notice to owner
   
94.27   Return of impounded animal to owner
   
94.28   Habitual offender
Market Cattle Testing Program
   
94.40   Title
   
94.41   Purpose
   
94.42   Area of responsibility
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Injuring wildlife in parks, see §
96.18
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 ADOPTION; EXEMPTIONS.
   The Common Council adopts the ordinance of County Area Plan, Chapter 90 2019
5-8, related with the exceptions as stated below.
   (A)   No chickens are allowed within the city limits.
   (B)   The animal control officer shall also include Police Department and
the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   The city may temporarily shelter an animal for up to three days at $25
per day.
   (D)   If necessary, officers are to call Marion Animal Care and Control. The
Police Chief must grant such approval.
   (E)   If the city needs or wants County Area Plan to assist and/or handle
the problem, the Police Chief, Police Captain, and/or Code Enforcement Officer
may make such calls.
   (F)   Penalties shall be as listed, however, if city officers and/or Code
Enforcement Officers shall process the ordinance violation. Such shall be
handled by the Ordinance Violation Bureau with the Clerk-Treasurer handling.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. If a person intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or with
criminal negligence leaves a domestic animal and includes equine, bovine,
swine, fowl, or any and all sentient beings at a location without providing
adequate care.
   AGGRESSIVE (VICIOUS) CANINE. Any canine that has been determined, without
provocation:
      (1)   Has attacked and injured other domestic animals, without
provocation, provided, however that basic interaction and play among animals of
the same species does not constitute an “attack” for purpose of this provision;
      (2)   Has bitten one or more persons who are lawfully inside the animal’s
enclosure; or
      (3)   Has attempted to climb over, dig under, chew through, break, or
otherwise escape from its enclosure in an attempt to attack, chase, or harass a
person or another domestic animal as observed by a person charged with
enforcing this subchapter.
   ANIMAL. Any living non-human, warm or cold blooded, vertebrate creature or
reptile, domestic, or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Those persons designated by Marion Animal Care and
Control to enforce state statues and this subchapter as defined.
   ANIMAL FIGHTING. Refers to paraphernalia equipment used to train or
condition animals for participation in an animal fighting contest.
(I.C. 35-46-3-4.3)
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated as a site for impounding and caring
for animals, confined under this subchapter. Shall refer to Marion Animal Care
and Control, currently located at 1021 East State Road 18, Marion, IN and
Marion Grant County Humane Society currently located at 505 South Miller Ave,
Marion, IN.
   BOAH. Indiana State Board of Animal Health, located at Discovery Hall, Suite
100, 1202 East 38th Street, Indianapolis, IN 46205.
   BREEDER. Any persons who intentionally or unintentionally causes or allow
their animal(s) to breed.
   CANINE HOUSE. Housing that is specifically made for housing of a canine with
an opening on one side for the animal to enter and exit with a roof. An “igloo”
style construction is acceptable.
   COUNTY. The unincorporated areas of Grant County, Indiana.
   ENCLOSURE. See the definition of “kennel.”
   HUMANE TRAP. Any device used for capturing an animal without inflicting
injury, pain, or suffering and which provides adequate ventilation for the
trapped animal. Snares, leg traps, or similar devices are considered inhumane.
   IDENTIFICATION. Bearing either a microchip, rabies tag, tattoo, or tag
bearing the owner’s name, address, and/or phone number.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an animal control officer or other officer empowered to act by law and
transporting it to an animal control facility.
   KENNEL. A facility, which is ascribed to it in the City of Marion Zoning
Code, as revised from time to time, operated commercially and principally for
the purpose of boarding, housing, grooming, breeding, or training dogs or cats,
or both.
   LIVESTOCK.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, LIVESTOCK means domestic
animals, except the following:
         (a)   Aquatic animals;
         (b)   Fish;
         (c)   Dogs;
         (d)   Cats;
         (e)   Poultry and other birds; however, the term includes ratites that
are domestic animals.
      (2)   LIVESTOCK, for purposes of I.C. 15-17-5, includes the following,
whether live or dead:
         (a)   Cattle;
         (b)   Sheep;
         (c)   Swine;
         (d)   Goats;
         (e)   Bison;
         (f)   Farm raised cervidae;
         (g)   Ratitae; and
         (h)   Horses, mules, or other equines.
   MARION ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL. Currently located at 1021 State Road IN-18,
Marion, IN 46952, is the entity that oversees animal welfare and is the legal
authority to administer this subchapter.
   MARION GRANT COUNTY HUMANE SOCIETY. Currently located at 505 South Miller
Avenue, Marion, IN 46953 is a not for profit organization committed to the
welfare of animals.
   OWNER/CAREGIVERS. Any person who owns, harbors, keeps, feeds, maintains, has
lawful possession of, or knowingly causes or knowingly permits an animal to be
harbored or kept or has an animal in his or her care or who permits an animal
to remain on or about his or her premises; provided this shall not include a
person hired or acting as custodian of the animal for its owner.
   RESTRAINT. Confinement to the premises of the owner/caregiver, while on or
being outside those premises while accompanied by a responsible person keeping
control of the animal, being on a leash, chain, or confinement in a fenced
area.
   STRAY/AT LARGE ANIMAL. Any animal not under the immediate control, not on a
leash, not at heel, not beside a competent person, not in a vehicle driven or
parked, or not confined within the property limits of his or her owner.
   UNALTERED/INTACT. An animal that has not been spayed or neutered.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 94.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This subchapter explicitly applies to the unincorporated areas of the
county. It is understood that these same circumstances exist in the
incorporated areas of Marion, Gas City, Swayzee, Fairmount, Fowlerton, Upland,
Landess, Jalapa, Sims, Sweetser, Jonesboro, Van Buren, Matthews and Point
Isabel. Each of these incorporated areas can be within the dominion of this
subchapter if approved by their governing body and with modifications and
adjustments to their specific region.
   (B)   Marion Animal Care and Control collects and retains the violation
fines and permit fees to compensate for their service to the county’s
unincorporated areas and the towns and incorporated areas that implement this
subchapter with modifications and adjustments to their specific region.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 94.04 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep a canine or feline and ferrets over the
age of three months unless such feline or canine or ferrets are immunized
against rabies by a vaccination performed by a veterinarian, and the period of
immunization specified by the veterinarian performing the vaccination has not
expired. Each owner of a canine or feline or ferret older than three months of
age must procure a rabies vaccination for the animal. The rabies vaccination
must be administered by a licensed veterinarian. The rabies vaccination must be
obtained annually unless three-year vaccination is administered. The animal
must wear the rabies vaccination tag when applicable at all times. Any person
who is found to have violated this section shall pay a fine of not less than
$35 for the first offense, $75 for the second offense and $125 for the third
offense.
   (B)   However, if the unvaccinated animal causes bodily injury to another
person or animal, the fine will be not less than $125, and the court shall
conduct an aggressive (vicious) canine hearing relating to the animal.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-46-3-1(1), a person who knowingly or intentionally
harbors a dog that is over the age of three months and not immunized against
rabies commits harboring a non-immunized dog, a Class C infraction. However,
the offense is a Class B misdemeanor if the dog causes bodily injury by biting
a person.
   (D)   Whenever Marion Animal Care and Control has reasonable cause to
suspect that an animal has been exposed to rabies, or bitten or exposed through
non-bite exposure a person to rabies, such animal shall be surrendered by its
owner for quarantine and observation, at the owner’s expense, promptly upon
demand by Marion Animal Care and Control. Such quarantine and observation shall
be at the animal owner’s expense.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 FINDING OF RABIES; GENERAL QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When an animal quarantined has been found rabid or is suspected of
being rabid by a veterinarian and dies while under observation, Marion Animal
Care and Control shall take such action as is specified in such cases by the
State Board of Animal Health and shall notify the proper public health
officials of reports of human contacts made by, and the diagnosis made of, the
animal.
   (B)   (1)   When a rabies report is made under this section, Marion Animal
Care and Control shall recommend to the enforcement authority of City of Marion
and Grant County, a general quarantine for a period of 30 days.
      (2)   Upon invocation of the general quarantine by the Commissioner, any
animal found at large may be destroyed without being impounded.
      (3)   During the quarantine period, every animal bitten or exposed
through non-bite exposure by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be confined,
at its owner’s expense, or destroyed as specified by the enforcement authority.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 ANIMALS UNDER RESTRAINT AT ALL TIMES.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to keep any of his or her animals under restraint
at all times.
   (B)   Any animal with sufficient size, capable of causing severe bodily
injury to another person or animal, shall adhere to the following.
      (1)   The animal should be securely confined indoors, or confined in a
securely and totally enclosed and locked pen, with either a top and with all
four sides at least six feet high.
         (a)   A fenced in yard may be suitable for confinement if fence is at
least six feet high with a minimum of ten gauge wires.
         (b)   All gates or access to fenced area must be securely locked at
all times and all areas of fencing must be secure to maintain the animal inside
the fenced area.
         (c)   An electric fence may be a suitable form of containment.
      (2)   At any time that the animal is not confined as required in division
(B)(1) above, the animal shall be muzzled in such a manner as to prevent it
from biting or injuring any person or animal, and kept on a leash, no longer
than six feet, with the owner or custodian in attendance.
      (3)   In order to protect the public and to afford relief from the severe
harm and injury which could occur, every owner of an animal with sufficient
size, shall maintain and be able to provide evidence of the owner’s financial
ability to respond in damages up to and including the amount of $50,000 for
bodily injury to or death of any person or animal or damage to property which
may result from the ownership, keeping, or maintenance of the animal.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 UNRESTRAINED ANIMALS IMPOUNDED.
   Unrestrained animals may be taken to the Marion Animal Care and Control or
the Marion Grant County Humane Society facility and impounded in their shelter
and confined in a humane manner. Impounded animals shall be kept for not less
than 72 hours unless reclaimed by their owners. Animals not reclaimed by their
owners within 72 hours may become the property of the Marion Animal Care and
Control or the Marion Grant County Humane Society. All cost incurred for the
impounding of these animals will be the responsibility of the owner for
payment.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 ANIMALS BECOMING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to own or keep any animal which by
frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking, screeching, or other
vocalization, chase vehicles, habitually attack other animals, trespassing on
school grounds, or trespassing or damaging private property, or otherwise shall
cause serious annoyance or disturbance to persons in the vicinity.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   The person responsible for any animal which has bitten a person or
another animal must report the incident to the Marion Animal Care and Control
or local law enforcement. Upon receiving the report of a bite, Marion Animal
Care and Control will quarantine the animal for ten days with the place of
confinement to be at the discretion of the Marion Animal Care and Control.
      (1)   During quarantine, if the animal is confined by Marion Animal Care
and Control, a charge equal to the actual cost of housing the animal, not to
exceed $50 per day, shall be paid to Marion Animal Care and Control by the
owners of said animal.
      (2)   Additionally, during the quarantine period, the owner must provide
a current rabies vaccination certificate for his or her feline or canine that
is being quarantined. If proof of vaccination cannot be provided, the animal
will be vaccinated by a veterinarian at the owner’s expense. Said animal will
not be released until payment is received.
   (B)   Upon release of his or her animal(s), they must be spayed or neutered
by a veterinarian at the owner’s expense. This procedure must be complied with
prior to release.
   (C)   (1)   Upon receiving information about any animal which has bitten a
person or which has possibly been exposed to rabies, the law enforcement agency
shall notify Marion Animal Care and Control.
      (2)   If a veterinarian determines that an animal in quarantine is a
possible rabies carrier, the County Health Office shall be notified. Any
necessary action shall be to confirm the diagnosis and disposal of the animal.
   (D)   Every case of a human bitten by a domestic or wild animal shall be
reported promptly to Marion Animal Care and Control or the local law
enforcement agency. It is the duty of the person bitten or the parent/guardian
to make the report in conformance with 410 I.A.C. 1-2.3-52. Law enforcement
K9’s are exempted from this section.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 TREATMENT AND CARE OF ANIMALS.
   This section applies to the care of domestic animals.
   (A)   No owner shall recklessly fail to provide animals with sufficient good
and wholesome food and water. Food must be appropriate for the species.
   (B)   No owner shall recklessly fail to provide animals with proper shelter.
   (C)   (1)   No owner shall leave an animal outside and exposed to the
elements for any amount of time that said exposure would become dangerous to
the animal’s health, without providing proper shelter for said animals.
      (2)   Proper shelter shall mean a structure of at least three sides and a
roof within which an animal can seek refuge from the sun, wind, and
precipitation. The shelter is to be located on dry ground that is mud free and
which shelter is maintained in a sanitary condition to prevent odor and health
problems for the animal.
      (3)   Every owner/caregiver of a domestic animal(s) that is confined
outside shall be brought into a temperature controlled facility/shelter when
the temperature is at or below 32°F or at or above 85°F or when a heat
advisory, wind chill warning, or a tornado warning has been issued by local,
state, or national authority. Exception to the listed above is when the animal
(s) are in direct visual range/site of a owner/caregiver.
   (D)   (1) No person shall recklessly fail to provide veterinary care for
animals. As used in this section, VETERINARY CARE means proper grooming,
medical treatment, and vaccinations against rabies.
      (2)   Tail docking, ear cropping, or spay/neutering, when done by an
individual who is not a licensed veterinarian, is a violation of this section.
   (E)   No person shall recklessly beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload,
overwork, or otherwise abuse any animal.
   (F)   No owner shall abandon any animal.
   (G)   Animal shall be kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement; the
person(s) responsible for animal(s) shall regularly , maintain all animal areas
or areas of animal contact to prevent odor, health, and sanitation problems.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a person to incite, train to fight, or set
any animal to fighting another animal or to incite combat between animals and
humans. An exception to this division is a crime prevention dog.
      (1)   No person shall build, make, maintain, or possess animal fighting
paraphernalia or keep a fighting facility on his or her premises.
      (2)   No person shall in any manner encourage, instigate, promote, or
assist in an exhibition of animal fighting or intentional combat between
animals.
      (3)   No person shall assist, participate, be present, or charge
admission to any exhibition of an animal fight or combat.
   (I)   No person shall violate the provisions of I.C. 35-46-3. Violations of
I.C. 35-46-3 shall be prosecuted in accordance with the provisions of state law
as contained therein.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 CARE OF LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide animals with sufficient wholesome food
and clean or fresh water. Food must be appropriate for the species.
   (B)   No owner shall fail to provide animals with proper shelter. Proper
shelter shall mean a structure of at least three sides and a roof within which
an animal can seek refuge from the sun, wind, and precipitation, which shelter
is located on dry ground.
      (1)   Shelter shall be well ventilated and provide adequate protection
from weather.
      (2)   Shelter shall be kept clean and in good repair.
      (3)   No owner shall leave an animal(s) outside and exposed to the
elements that would become dangerous to the animal’s health, without providing
proper shelter for said animal(s).
   (C)   No person shall fail to provide veterinary care for animals. As used
in this section, VETERINARY CARE means proper grooming and medical treatment.
   (D)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload, overwork,
or otherwise abuse any animal.
   (E)   No owner shall abandon any animal(s).
   (F)   Animal(s) shall be kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner; the
person(s) responsible for the care of said animal(s) shall regularly check and
maintain their condition to prevent odor or health issues.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for an owner/caregiver of any livestock to
willfully and carelessly allow livestock to roam off their property.
   (H)   No person shall violate the provisions of I.C. 35-46-3. Violations of
I.C. 35-46-3 shall be prosecuted in accordance with the provisions of state law
as contained therein.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 USE OF ROPES, CHAINS, OR CORDS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No animal shall be tied or fastened by any rope, chain, or cord except
under the direct supervision of the animal’s owner/caregiver. Restrained
animals must wear a properly fitted collar or harness made of leather or nylon,
not of the choker type. This is not to prohibit the proper use of choker
collars in the training of animals. The tying device shall be attached to the
animal’s collar or harness. If a chain is used, such chain shall not have a
total weight of more than one-eighth of the restrained animal’s body weight.
   (B)   Under the direct supervision of the animal’s owner/caregiver the
animal will not be tied or fastened by any rope, chain, or cord with no relief
from environment and climate hazards while causing possible harmful and cruel
physical and mental impairment to the animal.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 MISTREATED ANIMALS IMPOUNDED.
   (A)   Animals found in cruel, abusive, neglectful situations, or abandoned
as defined in the subchapter, shall be promptly impounded. If no immediate
contact with a responsible person can be made, Marion Animal Care and Control
Officer(s) will leave a written notice on the door of the residence explaining
to the owner the reason for impoundment.
   (B)   Impounded animal(s) will be in the care of Marion Animal Care and
Control until such time as the violator is in compliance with this subchapter.
If no contact is made within three business days, said animal(s) shall become
the property of Marion Animal Care and Control. An extension shall be granted
if court proceedings are necessary.
   (C)   In the case of animals impounded for quarantine at Marion Animal Care
and Control, if there is no contact from the owner within 11 days, the animal
becomes the property of Marion Animal Care1 and Control. All bills and charges
for the care and treatment of the animal(s) will be assessed to the owner for
payment.
   (D)   Animals impounded for reasons beyond the control of the owner, such
as, but not limited to, house fires, death of the owner, or other similar
situations will be held for seven days during which time a reasonable effort
will be made to contact the owner and/or their representative. After the
seventh day of impoundment, the animal will become the property of Marion
Animal Care and Control.
   (E)   An animal awaiting disposition by a court order shall remain in the
custody of Marion Animal Care and Control. All bills and charges for the care
and treatment of said animal(s) will be assessed to the owner for payment.
   (F)   Animals removed shall be seen by a licensed veterinarian for
examination and/or treatment. If, in the opinion of the veterinarian, the
animal must be destroyed, euthanasia will be performed within 24 hours. Cost of
treatment, euthanasia, and care shall be the responsibility of the owner/agent.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 ANIMALS IN ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   Domestic animals.
      (1)   All domestic animals kept inside, in a pen, leashed, enclosed by a
fence or electric fence, shall be kept in a sanitary manner. No animal shall be
kept in feces, mud, water, or with any debris. The owner or person(s)
responsible for the animals shall regularly maintain all areas within the
confinement. It is unlawful for an owner or person in control of an animal not
to provide an adequate enclosure, which complies with all of the requirements
of this section.
         (a)   Housing facilities. Indoor and outdoor housing facilities for
animals shall be maintained so as to contain the animal on the property at all
times and to protect the animal from injury.
         (b)   Storage of food. Supplies of food shall be stored in sealed
containers or other containers which protect the food against insect and vermin
infestation and contamination. Refrigeration shall be provided where necessary
to prevent the spoiling of food.
         (c)   Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities for animals shall be
ventilated with fresh air by means of windows, doors, vents, fans, or air
conditioning to provide for the animals’ health, comfort, and well-being, and
to minimize odors, drafts, ammonia levels, and moisture condensation. Ambient
temperature in an indoor housing facility shall be maintained between 50°F and
85°F.
         (d)   Primary enclosures. All primary enclosures for animals shall
conform to the following minimum requirements, except where identified
otherwise in writing by a licensed veterinarian for medical reasons.
            1.   Primary enclosures shall be structurally sound and constructed
so as to permit the animal within them to remain dry.
            2.   a.   The floors of the primary enclosure that are not a solid
surface shall be of an open-weave construction, where the openings are smaller
than the size of the flattened foot of the animal contained inside.
               b.   The solid surface of the mesh which the floor is made shall
be not less than one-fourth-inch wide in diameter.
            3.   Primary enclosures shall be maintained in good repair and
shall not have sharp points or edges that could injure an animal.
            4.   The following restrictions apply to primary enclosures that
house multiple canines and felines.
               a.   Intact females in estrus shall not be housed in the same
primary enclosure with adult canines of felines other than their dams or
surrogate dams.
               b.   Puppies or kittens shall not be housed in the same primary
enclosure with adult canines or felines other than their dams or surrogate
dams.
               c.   Canines shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure
with felines, nor shall canines or felines be housed in the same primary
enclosure with any other species of animal.
            5.   Housing facilities shall be cleaned and disinfected as needed.
Primary enclosures, including top, sides, floor, grate, and door shall be
cleaned with soap and disinfectant as needed.
            6.   Animals under quarantine or treatment for communicable disease
shall be housed according to generally accepted veterinary medical
requirements.
            7.   Records and medical release forms. For all animals currently
on the premises, records identifying the animal, including all license tag
information with the owner’s name, address, and emergency telephone number
shall be maintained.
         (e)   Dogs. For canines, enclosures shall have an outside perimeter
barrier that is a minimum height of 48 inches when measured from the ground, or
an electric fence. Any portion of a building that is intended to form part of
an enclosure must have a continuous wall (inclusive of windows and doors) that
meets the applicable height requirement.
         (f)   Additional structures. All non-building portions of an
enclosure, including gates, shall be constructed of chain link, welded wire,
wrought iron, brick, mortared stone, concrete block, wood stockade, or other
similar fencing-type material approved by Marion Animal Care and Control.
         (g)   Minimal separation. Where a building forms a part of an
enclosure, there shall be a minimal separation between the building and the
remaining parts of the enclosure to prevent escape of the animal or animals
intended to be contained.
         (h)   Zoning requirements. An enclosure shall be designed, erected,
and maintained in accordance with all applicable zoning and building
regulations of this code.
         (i)   Repairs. Broken or damaged portions of an enclosure shall be
repaired with like material and provide a seamless barrier that reasonably
inhibits or prevents escape.
         (j)   Aggressive dogs. For aggressive canines, an enclosure shall have
an outside perimeter barrier that is a minimum height of 72 inches when
measured from the ground.
            1.   Kennel enclosure for aggressive canines must be six sided,
which means there must be four sides, a top, and a bottom to the enclosure
area.
            2.   A property housing an aggressive canine must post on all four
sides of the property a “Beware of Dog” sign, that is clearly visible from the
outside of the property lines.
            3.   Onsite inspections shall be performed by a Marion Animal Care
and Control officer(s) prior to releasing an aggressive animal to its owner.
      (2)   An owner commits an offense if he/she fails to comply with this
section. If said owner fails to comply with this section with respect to more
than one canine, the person’s conduct with respect to each canine constitutes a
separate offense.
   (B)   Livestock.
      (1)   All livestock animals shall be kept in a sanitary manner. The owner
or person(s) responsible for the animals shall regularly maintain all areas of
the animal’s confinement.
         (a)   Housing facilities. Indoor and outdoor housing facilities for
animals shall be maintained at all times to protect the animal.
         (b)   Storage of food. Supplies of food shall be stored in a way which
is protected from insects, vermin infestation, and contamination.
         (c)   Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities for livestock shall be
ventilated with fresh air by means of windows, doors, vents, fans, or air
conditioning to provide for the animals health, comfort, and well-being.
         (d)   Primary enclosures. All primary enclosures for animals shall
conform to following minimum requirements, except where identified otherwise in
writing by a licensed veterinarian for medical reasons.
            1.   Primary enclosures shall be structurally sound and constructed
so as to permit the animal(s) within to remain dry.
            2.   Primary enclosures shall be maintained in good repair at all
times.
            3.   Animals under quarantine or treatment for communicable disease
shall be housed according to generally accepted veterinary medical
requirements.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.15 REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT.
   (A)   This section applies to domestic animals. It is deemed in the best
interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens and visitors of the
county, that all necessary precautions be implemented to prevent cutaneous
larva migrans (a frequently severe skin disorder caused by the infective larvae
of a canine hookworm which is transmitted by the contact of the human skin with
soil contaminated by canine feces), and visceral larva migrans (a disease
caused by the ingestion of larvae canine roundworms which commonly occurs when
young children swallow dirt.)
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for a responsible party to allow, whether
willfully or through failure to exercise due care or control, any canine or
feline to leave excrement in any public area.
      (2)   Persons responsible for an animal, except visually impaired persons
working with service canines, shall immediately remove the animal’s excrement
from public lands, sidewalks, and rights-of-way (property between sidewalks,
and streets), or from the property of another.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 INJURY/DEATH FROM MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any person operating a motor vehicle who causes injury or death to an
animal shall stop at once, assess the extent of injury, together with a
description of the animal struck, the location of the striking, and an estimate
as to the condition of the animal along with the rabies tag number if it can
safely be ascertained.
   (B)   One or more of the following shall be contacted:
      (1)   The owner of animal;
      (2)   Local law enforcement; and/or
      (3)   The Marion Animal Care and Control.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 ANIMALS NOT TO BE LEFT UNATTENDED IN VEHICLES.
   (A)   No animals shall be left unattended in a vehicle in excessive heat of
80°F or above unless the vehicle is running with the air conditioning on. No
animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle in excessive cold (30°F or below)
unless the vehicle is running with the heater on, or when the conditions in
that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or person in control of an animal to
carry or transport the animal on any public roadway in an unenclosed vehicle
such as, but not limited to, a pick-up, flatbed truck, jeep, or similar
vehicle, unless the animal is:
      (1)   Contained in a closed, vented animal carrier that is secured in
such a manner as prevent the carrier from being thrown from the vehicle in the
event of a collision; or
      (2)   Secured by a leash or other device that is cross-connected to
prevent the animal from falling, jumping, or being thrown from the vehicle and
from strangling on a single lead.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 AGGRESSIVE (VICIOUS) ANIMALS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to aggressive animals. AGGRESSIVE (VICIOUS)
ANIMALS include:
      (1)   Any animal, according to the record of the appropriate authority
provided. This section shall not apply to animals under the control of a law
enforcement or military agency;
      (2)   An animal shall be deemed aggressive if:
         (a)   Did bite or attack once, causing wounds or injuries creating a
potential danger to the health or life of a human being without provocation in
a public or private place where the person was conducting himself or herself
peacefully and lawfully;
         (b)   Required defensive action by any person to prevent physical
injury or property damage, where the animal has acted without provocation, in a
public or private place where the person was conducting himself or herself
peacefully and lawfully;
         (c)   Could not be controlled or restrained at the time of a bite or
attack upon an animal or person;
         (d)   Any animal owned, harbored, or trained primarily or in part for
the purpose of animal fighting.
   (B)   An animal shall be declared aggressive/vicious only after Marion
Animal Care and Control Service has received an affidavit of complaint by an
individual under oath, stating all pertinent facts to support the allegation
that the animal is aggressive/vicious. If Marion Animal Care and Control
determines the complaint is valid, Marion Animal Care and Control shall file a
complaint in court. The court, after hearing all the evidence, shall make the
final determination as to whether the animal qualifies as an aggressive/vicious
animal.
   (C)   Any owner of an animal which qualifies under this section as an
aggressive (vicious) animal must:
      (1)   Register the animal with Marion Animal Care and Control within ten
days of the effective date of the subchapter. Registration shall include name,
address, and telephone number of the animal’s owner, the address where the
animal is to be harbored if different from the owner’s address, a complete
identification of the animal including the animal’s sex, color, and any other
distinguishing characteristics, two color photographs of the animal, a
description of the method of compliance with the confinement requirements,
$50,000 proof of liability insurance or other evidence of financial
responsibility, and a registration fee of $100 per year;
      (2)   Notify the Marion Animal Care and Control immediately if the animal
is given or sold to a new owner, providing Marion Animal Care and Control with
the new owner’s name, address, and telephone number. If the animal is moved to
another address, Marion Animal Care and Control shall make an onsite inspection
making sure this section is complied with. Registration will continue, but the
new owner must comply with the other provisions of this subchapter;
      (3)   Notify the Marion Animal Care and Control immediately if the animal
becomes loose or unconfined, attacks livestock, another domestic animal, or
human being, or inflicts any property damage;
      (4)   Notify Marion Animal Care and Control of the death of the animal
within ten days of the death;
      (5)   Confine the animal in a humane way inside or outside of the owner’s
property, in a secure enclosure so that it cannot escape of its own volition.
The owner’s property must contain a sign easily readable to the public saying
“Beware of Canine” or “Aggressive Animal”, posted on all four sides of the
property;
      (6)   Allow the animal to go off the owner’s premises only when it is
muzzled and kept on a leash or restraint, no more than six feet long, under the
control of a responsible person. The animal must be tattooed or have a
microchip placed in the animal. Appointments must be made within 24 hours after
the animal is released from the care of Marion Animal Care and Control to the
owner;
      (7)   The owner must provide proof of rabies vaccination before the
animal is to be released. If proof cannot be shown then an appointment with a
licensed veterinarian for rabies vaccination must be made within 24 hours after
being released from the care of Marion Animal Care and Control to owner;
      (8)   Upon the release of said animals, they must be spayed or neutered
at the owner’s expense within 24 hours; and
      (9)   Upon a second unrelated bite conviction, the animal will
immediately become the property of Marion Animal Care and Control by order of
the court to be humanely euthanized. A violation of this section shall be
subject to the penalties described in all other sections of this subchapter. In
addition, the court in its discretion can order the animal impounded by Marion
Animal Care and Control at the owner’s expense, until the owner complies with
the terms of this section, or order the animal to be humanely euthanized when
necessary, to preserve the public health, safety, and the welfare of the
community.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 TRAPS AS A NUISANCE OR ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   A hunting or trapping license or nuisance wild animal control permit
is required to take wild animals on land that a person does not own or rent.
Within 24 hours of capture, the person who takes the animal must release it or
euthanize it. Animals that are released must be released on land in the county
where it was captured. Furthermore, the landowner or property manager must give
permission for the release. These nuisance animals cannot be possessed for more
than 24 hours and cannot be sold, traded, bartered, or gifted.
   (B)   Trapping as a nuisance permit shall not apply to any trap specifically
designed to kill rats, mice, gophers, or moles so long as the owner of the
property is aware of the location where the trap(s) are set and monitors said
trap(s) at least once every 24 hours.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to use poisons or use poisoning or stupefying
substances in a trap.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remove an animal from any trap
not on the person’s property, unless such person has the express permission of
the property’s owner to do so.
   (E)   (1)   Traps discovered by Marion Animal Care and Control to be
unlawful shall be seized and used as prima facie evidence that a violation has
been committed.
      (2)   Upon conviction, said trap(s) shall be forfeited and disposed of by
Marion Animal Care and Control.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Domestic. Any person who shall become apprised of the death of any
animal owned, shall, within 24 hours thereafter, cause the animal to be removed
from the premises and taken to the Marion Animal Care and Control, a
veterinarian, cemetery, or other locations approved for disposal.
   (B)   Livestock . (I.C. 15-17-11-20) A person who owns or cares for an
animal that has died from any cause shall dispose of the animal’s body not
later than 24 hours after knowledge of death so as not to produce a nuisance,
the disposal of the animal’s body must be by one of the following methods:
      (1)   At an approved disposal plant; or
      (2)   Burial upon the owner’s premises to such a depth that every part of
the animal’s body is at least four feet below the natural surface of the ground
and every part of the animal’s body is covered with at least four feet of earth
in addition to any other material that may be used as cover.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 UNLAWFUL USE OF AN ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to make use of an animal in the commission
or furtherance of any criminal act.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 LOST OR STRAY DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Owners of animals must notify Marion Animal Care and Control of
missing animals within 48 hours of the animal becoming lost/stolen.
   (B)   Owners of missing animals must make reasonable effort to locate the
missing animal. Examples of a reasonable effort include:
      (1)   Notify local veterinarian offices and humane society;
      (2)   Post flyers;
      (3)   Publish in local media; and
      (4)   Publish on local social media sights.
   (C)   Persons finding a stray animal are to notify Marion Animal Care and
Control within 48 hours. At the discretion of the division, the animal may be
kept by the finder and a found report left with the division, to enable the
finder an opportunity to return the animal to its rightful owner.
   (D)   Upon demand by Marion Animal Care and Control, any found animal will
be taken to the Marion Animal Care and Control facility, veterinarian office,
or Marion Grant County Humane Society and scanned for an identifying microchip.
   (E)   (1)   Persons finding an animal are obligated to comply with all the
rules and regulations of this chapter pertaining to humane care and treatment
of animals, while said animal is in their custody awaiting return to its actual
owner.
      (2)   The finder will be considered the “found animal’s owner” for
purposes of this subchapter only after the animal is in the finder’s custody
for 30 continuous days.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   The Marion Animal Care and Control Officer(s) shall have powers in the
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to interfere with any Marion Animal Control and
Control Officer(s), to take or attempt to take any animal from the animal
control vehicle used to transport the animals, or to take or attempt to take
any animal from the Marion Animal Care and Control facility, Marion Grant
County Humane Society, or impounding area.
   (C)    It shall be unlawful to hinder, molest, abuse, or fail to provide
identification to the Marion Animal Care and Control Officer(s) in the exercise
of these powers.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 IMPOUNDMENT FEE.
   (A)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay a fee to Marion
Animal Care and Control. That fee shall be equal to the actual cost of housing
the animal, not to exceed $50 per day.
   (B)   Any animal found to be stray and impounded by Marion Grant County
Humane Society shall be reclaimed from Marion Grant County Humane Society by
the owner at a fee equal to the actual cost of housing the animal, not to
exceed $50 per day. If those fees are not paid and animal reclaimed within 72
hours, the impounding facility shall become the owner of said animal.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25 GROUNDS FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   An animal found at large in violation of this chapter shall be
captured and impounded by Marion Animal Care and Control or Marion Grant County
Humane Society.
   (B)   An animal found confined or abandoned on private property in violation
of this subchapter of this code shall be impounded by Marion Animal Care and
Control.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Upon the impoundment of an animal, a reasonable attempt shall be made
to notify and inform the owner of the animal of the requirements of this
subchapter for regaining the custody of the animal.
   (B)   Such attempt shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   In the instance of an impounded canine or feline, contact with the
owner identified by the microchip or other permanent means of identification,
if any, borne by the canine or feline;
      (2)   In the instance of an impounded canine or feline not bearing a
permanent means of identification, contact with the veterinarian facility
listed on the animal’s vaccination tag;
      (3)   Cooperation of effort with other governmental and private agencies,
such as the Marion Animal Care and Control or other humane and/or breed rescue
organizations recognized by the animal care and control division; and
      (4)   A person who confines an animal found by that person to be at large
shall notify Marion Animal Care and Control or one of its agents within 48
hours thereafter.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 RETURN OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL TO OWNER.
   An animal impounded under this subchapter, if claimed by its owner, shall be
returned to its owner subject to, and upon compliance:
   (A)   The owner of an impounded animal may obtain the return of such animal
upon compliance with any applicable provisions and the payment of the
appropriate impoundment and kennel fees, and any other applicable fees and
fines.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to the return to its owner of an impounded canine or
feline which at the time of impoundment did not bear a permanent means of
identification as required, the Animal Control shall cause a microchip with a
registered identification number to be implanted in the animal.
      (2)   The fee for such service shall be paid by the owner at the time of
the microchip placing.
   (C)   If an animal(s) has been picked up by Animal Control for the third
time, the animal is required to be spayed/neutered by a veterinarian at owner’s
expense.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 HABITUAL OFFENDER.
   (A)   A person shall be declared a habitual offender only after Marion
Animal Care and Control has filed a complaint in the Municipal Court. The City
Judge, after hearing all the evidence, shall make a final determination as to
whether the person qualifies as a habitual offender.
   (B)   A person shall be declared a habitual offender if:
      (1)   The offender has been found guilty of three or more of the same
provisions in the last five years;
      (2)   The offender has been found guilty of five or more of any
combination of the provisions in the last three years;
      (3)   The offender has been found guilty of a provision of this
subchapter which designates the offender as a habitual offender; or
      (4)   The offender has been found guilty of any section of I.C. 35-46-3-
7 through 35-46-3-13.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of being a habitual offender shall not own,
have possession of, or harbor any animals for a minimum of one year, but not
more than five years as determined by the court. Any animals owned or in the
possession of the habitual offender at the time of judgment shall be
surrendered to Marion Animal Care and Control Service and become the property
of the Marion Animal Care and Control Service.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
MARKET CATTLE TESTING PROGRAM
§ 94.40 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Market Cattle Testing Program.”
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 94.41 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to facilitate the cooperation needed
to make the Market Cattle Testing Program (MCT) effective. The MCT Program
shall replace the Brucellosis and Tuberculosis Control Program, which was paid
for by tax funds and which consisted of testing all eligible cattle in the
county once every six years.
   (B)   The MCT Program provides for the collection of blood for tests and the
examination of the carcasses of all slaughtered animals for evidence of
Brucellosis or Tuberculosis. Infected animals can be traced to the herd of
origin by identification through backtags. The entire herd can then be tested.
Negative animals shall be credited to the county of origin, until the entire
state has qualified as a “Certified Brucellosis Free Area” and as an
“Accredited Tuberculosis Free Area.”
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 94.42 AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Every herd owner and livestock dealer shall allow an official backtag
to be applied to all female bovine animals two years of age and over, any
heifer showing udder development and all bulls over six months of age that are
going to slaughter.
   (B)   (1)   Any public livestock marketing facility within the county shall
identify and apply official tags to all bovine animals as described in division
(A) above.
      (2)   Identifying backtags shall be supplied free of charge to the
auction markets to identify species of animals for their convenience.
   (C)   (1)   Every slaughtering establishment within the county which buys
identified animals from a market or direct or untagged animals shall collect
and identify all blood samples from those animals as described in division (A)
above and send them to the Purdue Diagnostic Laboratory for testing.
      (2)   The county shall supply all necessary equipment and postage.
   (D)   (1)   Any livestock dealer purchasing untagged livestock within the
county shall identify and apply official tags to all animals described in
division (A) above unless a public livestock marketing facility agrees to
provide that service to the dealer.
      (2)   The dealer shall identify the source of each animal presented at
the market.
   (E)   All persons required to identify animals in accordance with this
section shall file reports of that identification on forms supplied by the
State Board of Animal Health.
   (F)   If the market cattle test discloses any reactor animal, the herd of
origin shall be tested within 15 days under supervision of the State Board of
Animal Health.
   (G)   If the owner fails to comply, a quarantine shall be enforced with
attending restrictions and penalties.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   During a general quarantine declared by the Commissioner under §
94.05, an animal’s owner or keeper who resists the quarantining authority
acting under this chapter, or who permits an animal owned or kept by that
person to be at large, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500, and
any animal which is suspected of being rabid or is in violation of the general
quarantine shall be impounded immediately.
   (C)   Any person or persons found to be in violation of §
94.06(B)(2) shall be fined no more than $150 per animal and $25 per day for
every day of the violation. Upon second violation, owners shall be fined no
more than $200 per animal and $50 per day for every day of the violation. Upon
third violation, all animals will be removed by Marion Animal Care and Control
and a recommendation will be given to the court requesting owners not be
allowed to own or harbor animals of this nature for a period of one year. At
this time owners shall be fined no less than $300 per animal.
   (D)   A person who violates any provision of §
94.08 shall be punishable by a fine imposed for the first such violation, which
shall not be less than $25; subsequent or continued violations may also subject
the owner to impoundment of the animal by Marion Animal Care and Control.
   (E)    If a person is found guilty of §
94.10(I), the fine shall be not less than $100 for the first offense, $200 for
the second offense, and $300 for the third offense.
   (F)   If a person is found guilty of §
94.11(H), the fine shall be not less than $100 for the first offense, $200 for
the second offense, and $300 for the third offense.
   (G)   (1)   Any person found guilty of the provisions of §
94.14(A)(1)(d)7. shall pay a fine not less than $50 for the first offense, $100
for the second offense, and $225 for the third offense.
      (2)   An offense under §
94.14(A)(2) is punishable by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
      (3)   (2)   Any person found guilty of the provisions of §
94.14(B) shall pay a fine not less than $50 for the first offense, $100 for the
second offense, and $225 for the third offense.
   (H)   A person who violates §
94.21 shall be punished by a fine imposed for any such violation. This fine
shall not exceed $200. Further, upon a finding of violation, the court upon
request shall order the animal surrendered to Marion Animal Care and Control.
   (I)   Owners of missing animals who fail to make an effort to locate their
animals, as in §
94.22(B), shall be fined no less than $25 for the first offense and no less
than $50 for the second offense.
   (J)   (D)   Any person, after being found guilty of a habitual offender, who
continues to own, harbor, or have possession of an animal in violation of an
order entered pursuant to §
94.28(C) shall pay a fine of $2,500 plus be subject to a court hearing for
being in contempt of court.
   (K)   Any person who violates any provision of §§ 90.15 through 90.41 shall
be deemed guilty of an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not less than $25 for the first offense, $75 for the second offense, and $125
for the third offense, unless any provision of this chapter declares otherwise.
The maximum fine for any offense shall be $2,500. Each day any violation
continues or occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 25-2021, passed 12-28-2021)
CHAPTER 95: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   General prohibitions
   
95.03   Specific restrictions
   
95.04   Exemptions; permits
   
95.05   Disposition of fines
   
95.06   Fireworks
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.   
   COMMERCIAL ZONE. Zones B 1 and B 2 as established in the zoning ordinance of
the city.
   INDUSTRIAL ZONE. Zone I-1 as established in the zoning ordinance of the
city.
   LIGHT MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle with gross vehicular weight less
than 8,000 pounds, including automobiles, vans, motorcycles, motor-driven
cycles, motor scooters, dune buggies, snowmobiles, all terrain vehicles, go-
carts, mini-bikes, trail bikes, and light trucks.
   MODIFIED EXHAUST SYSTEM. Any exhaust system in which the original noise
abatement devices have been removed, altered, or replaced to produce more
noise.
   NOISE. Any unwanted sound.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any noise for which the information content is
unambiguously communicated to the listener, including understandable spoken
speech, comprehension or whether a voice is raised (agitated) or normal or
comprehensible musical rhythms.
   RESIDENTIAL ZONES. Zones R 1, R 2, R 3 as established in the zoning
ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 11-23-1999)
§ 95.02 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall make, or cause to be made, any noise that unreasonably
annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace,
safety, or welfare of any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or
affects their property’s value. This general prohibition is not limited by the
specific restrictions listed in the following sections.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 11-23-1999) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 SPECIFIC RESTRICTIONS.
   The following acts are declared to be unlawful:
   (A)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, tape or record players,
amplifiers and similar devices. Operating or permitting the use or operation of
any such device in such a manner to be plainly audible to any persons on or in
an adjoining property, apartment, office, structure, sidewalk, or vehicle shall
be prima facie evidence of a violation of this chapter;
   (B)   Domestic power tools. Operating or permitting the use or operation of
any mechanically powered saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool,
lawnmower, snow blower, or similar device used outdoors between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any
reasonable person nearby;
   (C)   Construction. Operating or permitting the operation of any tool or
equipment used in construction, drilling, or demolition between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any
reasonable person nearby;
   (D)   Horns and signaling devices. Operating a horn or other audible
signaling device on any motor vehicle except in an emergency or when required
by law;
   (E)   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings. Participation in any
party or gathering giving rise to noise that is plainly audible across property
boundaries or in such a manner to be plainly audible to any persons on or in an
adjoining property, apartment, office, or structure shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this chapter;
   (F)   Animals. Harboring or keeping any animal which by causing frequent or
long continued noise disturbs or annoys any reasonable person nearby; or
   (G)   Adjacent to certain institutions. The creation of any loud and raucous
noise on any street adjacent to any school, rest home, nursing home, church, or
court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution, or which unduly
disturbs the patients in the hospital; provided that conspicuous signs are
displayed in such streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital, or
court street.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 11-23-1999) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 EXEMPTIONS; PERMITS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the emission of
sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence of an emergency, or
the emission of sound in the performance of work to prevent or alleviate
physical or property damage threatened or caused by a public calamity or other
emergency.
   (B)   (1)   The Police Department shall have the authority to issue permits
for:
         (a)   Holidays, celebrations, concerts, parades, school and athletic
events, special parks and recreational activities, or other special events
(public or personal); or
         (b)   Persons who demonstrate that bringing the source of sound or
activity for which the permit is sought into compliance with the provisions of
this chapter would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, the
community, or other persons and that the adverse impact on the health, safety,
and welfare of persons affected by the permit has been outweighed by such
hardship.
      (2)   Permits may contain any conditions (including a time limit) that
are necessary to limit the adverse impact of the activity.
      (3)   Noncompliance with any condition of the permit shall terminate it
and subject the person holding it to the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   The Police Department may issue guidelines defining the procedures
to be followed in applying for a permit and the specific criteria to be
considered in deciding whether to issue a permit.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 11-23-1999) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 DISPOSITION OF FINES.
   All fines collected upon conviction of any person charged with a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be paid into the city treasury,
as required by law.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 11-23-1999)
§ 95.06 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   While there are a few holidays that are typically celebrated with
legal consumer fireworks, such celebration is prohibited at all times and
locations within the city, with the following exceptions, as allowed by I.C.
22-11-14-10.5:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on
Memorial Day Weekend (Friday to Monday);
      (2)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. on June 29, June 30,
July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July 9;
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on July
4;
      (4)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on Labor
Day Weekend (Friday to Monday); and
      (5)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m.
January 1.
   (B)   Any other time and location must be authorized by the city by permit
of $50. It must be approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety, as
recommended by the City Fire Chief, or his or her designee.
   (C)   Fireworks use is not permitted on any city owned property, park,
roads, easement, or other publically owned property without specific approval
by the Board of Public Works and Safety and the Common Council, as recommended
by the City Fire Chief, or his or her designee.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee shall prevent any use of
fireworks due to weather conditions or any other safety concerns.
   (E)   In addition, I.C. 22-11-14-6 states fireworks must be used either on
the user’s property or on the property of someone who has given permission. The
user must be 18 or be using fireworks under adult supervision. All provisions
of this code, other than what is listed above, are in full force.
(Ord. 8-2018, passed 9-11-2018) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of the motor vehicle noise limits set
forth in this chapter shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of any other provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $25 for the first offense, not less than $75 for
the second offense, and not less than $150 for the third or subsequent
offenses.
   (C)   Each day that a violation is in effect shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of or failing to comply
with §
95.05:
      (1)   First violation: $25.
      (2)   Second violation: $50.
      (3)   Third violation: $150.
      (4)   Fourth violation $200.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 11-23-1999; Ord. 8-2018, passed 9-11-2018)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
96.02   Construction and scope of chapter
   
96.03   Enforcement
Park Regulations
   
96.15   Park hours
   
96.16   Possession or use of alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
96.17   Possession of firearms and weapons prohibited
   
96.18   Inflicting injury to wildlife or vegetation prohibited
   
96.19   Damaging signs, shelters, or other structures
   
96.20   Overnight camping prohibited
   
96.21   Fire restrictions
   
96.22   Traffic and other vehicle use in parks
   
96.23   Other prohibited activity
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   The Common Council hereby establishes the Department of Parks and
Recreation.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Parks and Recreation of the city.
      (2)   PARK. Includes the land and water constituting all parks and other
recreation areas within the jurisdiction of the Department.
      (3)   PARK BOARD. The Board of Parks and Recreation of the city.
   (C)   The Department shall be composed of the Park Board. The Park Board
shall be composed of four members who shall be appointed by the Common Council
on the basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation. No
more than two members of the Park Board shall be members of the same political
party.
   (D)   Each member of the Park Board shall be appointed for a four-year term,
commencing on the first Monday in January. Each member shall continue in office
until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
   (E)   The Park Board shall elect a president and vice-president at its first
meeting of each year. The vice-president shall act as president of the Park
Board during the absence or disability of the president.
   (F)   The Park Board may perform all acts necessary to acquire and develop
sites and facilities and to conduct programs generally understood to be park
and recreation functions, and shall have all powers and duties listed in I.C.
36-10-3-11, as amended.
   (G)   The Park Board may create an advisory council and special committees
composed of citizens interested in parks and recreation, in accordance with
I.C. 36-10-3-17, as amended.
   (H)   (1)   The Park Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget.
      (2)   The Park Board may accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for park
and recreation purposes.
      (3)   A special non-reverting fund shall be established and made
available for expenditures for purposes specified by persons donating money to
the Park Board.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980)
§ 96.02 CONSTRUCTION AND SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The following rules shall apply in the interpretation of this chapter.
      (1)   Any term in the singular shall include the plural.
      (2)   Any requirement of this chapter concerning any act shall include
the causing, procuring, aiding, and abetting, whether directly or indirectly,
that act, and the permitting of any minor in the custody of an adult to perform
any act prohibited by this chapter.
      (3)   No provision of this chapter shall make unlawful any act of any
Parks and Recreation Department employee or officer performed in the line of
duty, or any act performed by any person pursuant to the terms of any agreement
with the Park Board.
      (4)   Any act otherwise prohibited by this chapter, if not otherwise
prohibited by state law or city ordinance, shall be lawful if performed under,
by virtue of, and to the extent authorized by this chapter.
      (5)   This chapter shall be deemed to supplement all city, state, and
federal laws and ordinances.
   (B)   This chapter shall be effective within all parks and shall regulate
their use by all persons.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department may issue notices of violation to any person violating
this chapter. The notices shall be prepared and issued in accordance with I.C.
9-18-12 and 34-28-5-1, as amended.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980)
PARK REGULATIONS
§ 96.15 PARK HOURS.
   Use of park facilities shall be limited to the following times: year around
- 6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. Restrooms may be closed at 10:00 p.m. unless a
special event is occurring in the park.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980; Ord. 8-1999, passed 10-26-1999)
§ 96.16 POSSESSION OR USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bring into any park, or use, consume, sell, give away, or
possess any alcoholic beverage in any park.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.17 POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall bring into, or possess any weapon, missile propelling
devices, ammunition, fireworks, or other explosive devices in any park.
   (B)   No person shall bring into any park, or possess in any park, any
firearm, unless that firearm is licensed, permitted, and authorized by the
Police Department having jurisdiction over that person or park to possess that
firearm, or unless that person has received written authorization to do so from
the Park Board.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.18 INFLICTING INJURY TO WILDLIFE OR VEGETATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall kill, wound, hunt, trap, shoot, throw rocks or
missiles at, chase, molest, remove, or possess any feral animal, reptile, bird,
bird’s nest, squirrel’s nest, or young or eggs of any reptile or bird, or
knowingly buy, receive, possess, sell, or give away any animal, reptile, bird,
or egg killed or taken within any park.
      (2)   The Park Board may grant written permission for hunting or trapping
certain species under restricted conditions to prevent species overpopulation.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall harvest, cut, remove, break, disturb, set fire
to, or otherwise damage any vegetation or other growing thing within any park.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the word VEGETATION includes but
is not limited to plants, flowers, flowerbeds, shrubs, tree growth, branches,
stems, fruits, and leaves.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall attach a rope, tether, cable, or other
contrivance to any vegetation in any park.
      (2)   However, the ripe fruit and seeds of plants and trees may be
collected from the ground by any person.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.19 DAMAGING SIGNS, SHELTERS, OR OTHER STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall deface, remove, set fire to, tamper with, damage, or
destroy any artificial structure within any park, or use any such structure for
purposes other than that for which it was intended. The term ARTIFICIAL
STRUCTURE shall include, but not be limited to, any drive, walk, bridge, wall,
monument, statue, sign, building, tower, parking lot, post, gate, and
recreational equipment.
   (B)   No person shall displace or remove any asphalt, curb, rock, stone,
gravel, or sand in any park, or make any excavation in any park.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.20 OVERNIGHT CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall pitch or maintain any tent or other improvised shelter or
otherwise camp overnight within any park without first obtaining the written
consent of the Park Board. That permit shall be conspicuously posted at the
campsite.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.21 FIRE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall kindle, build, maintain, or use any fire in any park
except in fireplaces provided for the purpose or as cooking fires confined to
portable grills, barbeques, cook stoves, and other cooking equipment deemed
acceptable by the Park Board, or as the burning of combustible materials under
authority of the Park Board as part of normal maintenance, or unless that
person has obtained the written consent of the Park Board to otherwise act.
   (B)   Any fire shall be maintained under the continuous care and direction
of a competent person at least 18 years of age, from the time it is kindled
until it is effectively extinguished.
   (C)   No person shall discard any burning match, cigar, or cigarette within
any park.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.22 TRAFFIC AND OTHER VEHICLE USE IN PARKS.
   (A)   Speed limits and obstructions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within any park at a speed of
more than ten mph.
      (2)   No person shall cause or permit any vehicle under his or her
control to obstruct traffic. No person shall stop any vehicle in any park
except at those places specifically designated as parking areas.
   (B)   Vehicle use restrictions. No vehicle shall be operated within any park
except upon the roadway or within any area expressly designated for vehicular
traffic. Snowmobiles, mini-bikes, and persons on horseback are restricted to
those areas specifically designated for such uses. The Park Board may grant
written exemptions to this requirement if the applicant for that exemption
submits proof of liability and property damage insurance with terms deemed
adequate and acceptable to the Park Board.
   (C)   Vehicles in park after operating hours. No person shall leave any
vehicle within any park after the park has closed. Any such vehicle may be
removed by order of the Department of Parks and Recreation without further
notice to the owner or operator. The owner of that vehicle shall be liable for
any towing and storage fees incurred.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.23 OTHER PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   No person shall engage in any conduct or act dangerous to that person or to
others, including but not limited to, hang-gliding, rappelling from towers, and
any other technical climbing of trees, towers, or structures.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to
have committed an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined not
more than $100. Each day a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1986 Code, § 36-10-3-3) (Ord. 3-1962, passed 7-12-1962; Ord. 6-1980, passed 9-
21-1980)
CHAPTER 97: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
97.01   Street cuts
   
97.02   Replacement materials required when repairing streets
   
97.03   Ball playing prohibited on city streets
   
97.04   Prevention of litter
   
97.05   Trees and flora
   
97.06   Maintenance and repair
   
97.07   Various service and permit fees
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Street use regulations, see I.C. 36-9-2-7
§ 97.01 STREET CUTS.
   (A)   No person shall cut or alter any street or alley in the city to
construct any ditch, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drain, without first
obtaining a permit to do so from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Each applicant for a street cut permit may be required to file a bond
with the Clerk-Treasurer in an amount and with terms deemed acceptable by that
officer, to insure that the street shall be returned to as good a condition as
it was prior to the street cut.
(1986 Code, § 36-9-2-7) (Ord. 14, passed 6-22-1872; Ord. 160, passed 12-10-
1919) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.02 REPLACEMENT MATERIALS REQUIRED WHEN REPAIRING STREETS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to preserve and maintain the
streets in their intended material composition.
   (B)   Restriction. Any street surface consisting of brick, asphalt, or
concrete, must be replaced with the original type of material. The city
reserves the right to determine “original material composition,” as well as
sub-surface preparation and the work must meet city standards, as determined by
the Utility Superintendent, as approved by the Board of Public Works.
   (C)   Compliance.
      (1)   Any person, agency, or company wishing to make a street cut that
requires backfill and/or surface repair, in the city, shall supply said city
with a performance/insurance bond, in the amount of 100% of the estimated
repair costs, if required.
      (2)   Any party who fails to comply with the established requirements
shall be required to resurface the area in question, in compliance with
division (A) above, at the expense of the person, agency, or company who
originally performed the service, or relinquish their bond.
   (D)   No person shall make any excavation into, under, or across any
pavements (paved or unpaved), gutters, or curbs within the public rights-of-way
under the city’s jurisdiction without first obtaining a street cut permit from
City Hall. Each street cut shall require a separate street cut permit.
   (E)   The edges of all excavations into paved or finished pavements,
gutters, and curbs shall be sawed to a minimum depth of one-third the depth of
the pavement, gutter, or curb. In no case will the sawed cut be allowed to be
less than two inches.
   (F)   All excavations or cuts made into, under, across, or extending three
feet from the finished edges of pavements, gutters, or curbs shall be back
filled with “flowable fill,” also known as “controlled density fill.”
   (G)   All materials, cuts, and excavations, unless specifically stated
otherwise, shall be in accordance with the current Indiana Department of
Transportation (INDOT) Standard Specifications.
   (H)   The flowable fill shall have a compressive strength from 50 pounds per
square inch (PSI) to 150 PSI.
   (I)   The flowable fill shall have a flow test spread diameter greater than
eight inches.
   (J)   The test for flow shall consist of filling a three-inch diameter by
six-inch high, open-ended cylinder placed on a smooth, level, nonporous surface
to the top with the flowable fill. The cylinder shall be pulled straight up
within five seconds. The spread of the fill shall be measured. The minimum
spread shall be eight inches. This test shall be performed by the City Street
and Utility Superintendent or his or her designated representative.
   (K)   Brick streets shall be laid by using flowable fill to set bricks and
sand for crack fill. Bricks should be laid in accordance to area such was
removed.
   (L)   When the flowable fill is being placed in Industrial Streets,
Commercial Streets, Federal Aid Highways, or other streets used for non-
residential uses, the flowable fill shall extend to a maximum of six inches
below the finished surface of the adjacent pavement. If the final six inches of
the pavement is being finished with concrete, the concrete may be placed as
soon as bleeding water has subsided from the flowable fill. The concrete shall
be protected from traffic for a minimum of 48 hours, unless otherwise approved
by the Street Superintendent or his or her designated representative. When hot
asphalt is used for restoring the final six inches, the flowable fill shall be
allowed to cure for a minimum of 24 hours, unless otherwise approved by the
Street Superintendent or his or her Designated Representative. The hot asphalt
shall consist of five inches of HAC #5 Base and one inch of HAC #11 surface
meeting current INDOT specifications. When the existing pavement depth is
greater than six inches, the Street Superintendent may require that the final
restoration match the existing pavement depth.
   (M)   When flowable fill is being placed in residential streets or alleys,
the flowable fill shall extend to a minimum of four and one-half inches below
the finished surface of the adjacent pavement. Placing of concrete is the same
as for industrial streets above the depth may be four and one-half inches.
After flowable fill has cured for 24 hours, unless otherwise approved by the
Street Superintendent, hot asphalt may be placed and shall consist of three and
one-half inches of HAC #5 Base and one inch of HAC #11 surface meeting current
INDOT specifications. When the existing pavement depth is greater than four and
one-half inches, the Street Superintendent may require that the final
restoration match the existing pavement.
   (N)   When flowable fill is being placed in unpaved streets or alleys, the
flowable fill shall extend to a minimum of six inches below the adjacent
surface grade. After the flowable fill has cured for 24 hours, unless otherwise
approved by the Street Superintendent, six inches of compacted aggregate #73
limestone meeting current INDOT specifications shall be placed and compacted.
   (O)   All gutters and curbs shall be restored as near as possible to match
the existing gutters and curbs.
   (P)   Any driveways or landscape that have been disturbed shall be restored
to match the existing driveway and landscape and/or sidewalks.
   (Q)   (1)   Any request for waiver of the flowable fill requirement shall be
made in writing and approved by the Street Superintendent. If such waiver is
granted, granular backfill, meeting INDOT specifications for B borrow, #53
compacted aggregate, and #73 compacted to 95% of the maximum dry density, as
determined by accepted AASHTO (American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials) standards and procedures, and confirmed by test
results from an INDOT certified laboratory.
      (2)   The number of tests to be taken will be determined by the Street
Superintendent and is dependent upon the depth and length of the excavation
being restored.
      (3)   The cost of these test, if any, will borne by the permit holder. In
any event, the structure(s), pipe, cable, and the like shall be covered to a
height of not less than 12 inches with flowable fill prior to placement of the
granular fill material.
   (R)   The flowable fill mix may consist of the following materials and be
proportioned within the following limits for each material per cubic yard.
 
Material Type   Limits
                (pounds per cubic inch)
Fine aggregate  2,010 to 3,150
Fly ash         0 to 1,500
Portland cement 25 to 75
Water           As required, approximately 500
 
   (S)   The producer may use water reducing admixtures and also air-entraining
admixtures when used in accordance with the admixture’s manufacturer’s
recommendations. The flowable fill may have an air content ranging from 0% to
25% by volume.
   (T)   (1)   The proposed mix design shall be submitted and approved by the
Street Superintendent.
      (2)   A trial batch demonstration and compressive strength report may be
required.
   (U)   Before and flowable fill is placed, any pipes, structures, or other
objects that might be displaced by the placement of the flowable fill shall be
adequately anchored, braced, or otherwise secured. Water main breaks should be
one foot of sand over the main.
   (V)   No flowable fill or any other fill shall be placed in the excavation
until excavation and any required bracing has been inspected by the Street
Superintendent of his or her designated representative.
   (W)   The mixture shall be delivered and discharge using ready-mix trucks
approved for use by the State Department of Transportation.
   (X)   A copy of the “batch ticket” for the delivered flowable fill shall be
required to be turned into the Street Superintendent.
      (1)   Flowable fill shall not be placed on frozen ground and in alleys
that has limited use.
      (2)   Flowable fill shall be protected from freezing until the material
has stiffened and bleeding water subsided. When the temperature at placement is
below freezing (32ºF). The Street Superintendent may require that freezing
protection extend for as long as 48 hours.
   (Y)   Permit Conditions.
      (1)   The following conditions apply to granting a permit (“this
permit”).
         (a)   This permit is valid for 90 days from the date of approval. If
work covered by this permit is not completed within this time a new permit will
be required.
         (b)   This permit is valid only for work on the right-of-way for the
city. The permitee shall obtain approval from appropriate agencies for work
done outside the incorporated area of the city and secure consent by easement
or other legal document from abutting property owners for work performed
outside the city right-of-ways.
         (c)   This permit in no way relives the permitee from meeting all
applicable federal, state, and local laws or other required permits.
         (d)   Exception and/or change order are allowed as approved by Board
of Public Works and Safety.
         (e)   Attach to this application a non-refundable fee of $25.
      (2)   This permit application is approved subject to the requirements set
out in this permit application and Ordinance No. 2023.
   (Z)   Responsibilities. The applicant shall:
      (1)   Install and maintain barricades, signs, lights, and the like, and
all traffic controls (flagmen, and the like) in accordance with the latest
edition of the Indiana Manual of Uniform Traffic Devices (IMUTCD);
      (2)   Indemnify and save harmless the city, its agents and employees for
any and all claims for damages or actions arising out of the work performed
under this permit;
      (3)   Keep a copy of the approved permit with each work crew while work
is in progress and present it upon request any city official;
      (4)   Notify all law enforcement and emergency agencies (police, fire
ambulance, and the like) in the event that any lane closings are required for
the work that is to be performed under the permit;
      (5)   (a)   Remove and/or relocate any facilities when required by the
city for performance of construction of maintenance activities on the city
right-of-way;
         (b)   Removal and/or relocation of facilities in the city right-of-way
shall be at the sole expense of the permittee except as provided for by
applicable statues;
      (6)   Attach to the application a map showing all drainage structures and
title ditches adjacent to the right-of-way where work is to be performed under
the permit;
      (7)   Attach to the application proof of notification of all adjacent
property owners by either registered or certified mail;
      (8)   Attach to the application drawings or sketches showing the work to
be done under the permit and its location;
      (9)   Contact the Street Superintendent upon completion of the project;
and
      (10)   Complete the following:
 
 
Inspection Date of Completion __________________________
__________________________________________________
Street Commissioner
Remarks by Commissioner ____________________________
__________________________________________________
 
 
   (AA)   Emergencies. If the city, or any of its departments, determines that
an emergency situation exists, the requirements of this section may be
temporarily waived in order to protect health, welfare, and safety of the
traveling public.
(Ord. 5-2000, passed 11-14-2000; Ord. 7-2023, passed 7-25-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 BALL PLAYING PROHIBITED ON CITY STREETS.
   No person shall play ball on or upon any city street.
(1986 Code, § 36-9-2-7) (Ord. 14, passed 6-22-1872; Ord. 160, passed 12-10-
1919) Penalty, see §
97.99  
§ 97.04 PREVENTION OF LITTER.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote the health and
general welfare of the people of the city by prohibiting the throwing, casting,
or depositing of litter in or upon any private or public property within the
city limits.
   (B)   Definition of litter. For the purpose of this section, LITTER is
defined as ashes, filth, excrement, boards, slop cinder, old tires, sawdust,
wood or metal shavings, rubber, lumber scraps, boxes, barrels, crates, cans,
bottles, plastic, cartons, containers, paper, trash, rubbish, debris, garbage,
manure, grass cuttings, tree limbs, discarded food, clothing, or any other
offensive or disagreeable substance thrown, cast, dropped, discharges, or
deposited by anyone in our upon public or private property, including streams
and water courses.
   (C)   Violations.
      (1)   No person shall sweep, throw, cast, or otherwise place or deposit
litter of any kind in or upon any curb, gutter, street, alley, boulevard,
highway, right-of-way, viaduct, sidewalk, vacant, or occupied lot, vacant
building, pond, stream, or water course, or other public or private property.
      (2)   No person within any vehicle shall throw, cast, place, drop, spill,
or deposit litter upon any private or public property.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any real estate to
maintain the sidewalk, lawn space and that portion of the street lying between
the curb line, edge of road by curb, and property line free from litter. Such
owner or occupant is prohibited from sweeping or otherwise moving litter from
sidewalks into the gutters or streets, or onto adjoining property. Failure to
comply with this division shall constitute an ordinance violation.
      (4)   The owner, lessee, agent, or their person having control, charge,
authority, or management over vacant property shall keep said property free and
clear of any and all litter. Failure to comply with this division shall
constitute an ordinance violation.
      (5)   The owner, lessee, agent, or other person having control, charge,
authority, or management over vacant property shall keep said property free and
clear of any and all litter. Failure to comply with this division shall
constitute an ordinance violation.
      (6)   No trash, refuse, or garbage shall be removed, hauled, or conveyed
within city limits, unless the vehicle used for removal, hauling, or conveying
is tightly covered by screen, wire mesh, or tarpaulin. Such a vehicle shall be
loaded and driven in a manner that none of the contents may be spilled,
dropped, or blown from it. Failure to comply with this division shall
constitute an ordinance violation.
      (7)   Occupants of all premises shall be required to provide adequate
receptacles for garbage disposal, equipped with tight lids or covers and such
lids and covers shall be kept in place at all times. All receptacles shall be
placed in easily accessible locations on the premises, but not on alleys where
they may obstruct the circulation and operation of refuse and garbage
collection. Failure to comply with this constitutes an ordinance violation.
   (D)   Enforcement. The City Legal Department, the Code Enforcement Officer,
acting as agent of the City Legal Department, the Police Department, and the
Fire Department, can and shall take immediate legal action to enforce this
section.
(Ord. 10-2021, passed 6-8-2021) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 TREES AND FLORA.
   The following regulations and requirements shall apply to all trees and
flora that border or lies adjacent to any public street, alley, right-of-way,
place, or park within the corporate limits of the city.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of any private property in the city that borders or
lies adjacent to any public street, alley, right-of-way, place, or park and
upon which any trees or flora may be standing shall trim or cause such trees or
flora to be trimmed, either at the property line, or to a clear height of at
least feet above the service of any abutting right-of-way or place, 14 feet
above any public street or alley.
      (2)   All branches or parts thereof that overhangs any portion of a
public street, alley, right-of-way, or place or that obstructs or interferes
with the passage of right from any street lighting system, shall be trimmed or
cut.
      (3)   No person shall plant or maintain any tree or any flora so close to
any property line so as to obstruct the vision or free passage of pedestrians
or motorist along the streets or public right-of-way. The Board of Public Works
and Safety or its contractual agent or agents may enter upon private property
to do such cutting or trimming as may be necessary to remove any offending and
obstructing tree or flora that is prohibited by the provisions of this section.
   (B)   An owner shall and the city may remove from trees and flora all dead,
decayed, broken, or dangerous limbs, branches, or parts thereof or any that
overhang or are close to any public street, alley, right-of-way, or place and
when any such flora is dead, the owner shall completely remove the same, or
after notice to and failure of owner to do so, the Board of Public Works and
Safety or its lawful agents may cause such removal and charge the cost thereof
to the owner in accordance with the procedures hereinafter provided.
   (C)   All trees, plants, shrubs, and other vegetation adjacent to a street
intersection shall not be allowed to grow higher than 40 inches tall. All
trees, plants, shrubs, and other vegetation growing or planted adjacent to the
public right-of-way must have foliage trimmed by the owner in a manner which
does not interfere with adequate vision by drivers and pedestrians.
   (D)   (1)   If the Board of Works and Safety determines that a violation of
this ordinance exist upon private property, the Board of Public Works and
Safety or its agent may give a preliminary notice to the owner or occupant of
such property either verbally or by posting a notice on the property. Such
preliminary notice shall state the nature of the alleged violation, the action
deemed necessary to correct the condition complained of and a fix date not
sooner than two calendar weeks thereafter, when the property will be inspected
to determine if compliance has been effected.
      (2)   If, upon reinspection, it is determined that the violation has been
corrected, the owner or occupant shall not be liable, for any charges by reason
of the preliminary notice procedure.
      (3)   (a)   If any violation of this ordinance is not corrected as a
result of the preliminary notice, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall
give the owner or owners of such real estate written notice of the existence of
the condition. Such notice shall be given by first class mail directed to the
owner at his or her last and usual place of residence as determined by the
records of the County Assessor’s Office.
         (b)   The notice shall state the nature of the violation, describe the
real estate upon which tire condition exists, demand the abatement of the
condition and set a date not sooner that two calendar weeks after the date of
such notice, when the property shall be inspected to determine if abatement has
been effected. If, upon reinspection of the offending real estate, it is
determined that abatement has not occurred, the Board of Public Works and
Safety or its contractual agent shall enter upon such private property and
abate the offending condition.
   (E)   For its services rendered in the enforcement of this section to any
owner or owners, the owner or owners, so effected shall pay the Board of Public
Works and Safety or the Clerk-Treasurer of the following charges.
Service Fee
Service                                  Fee
Any out-of-pocket costs for publication
of notice pursuant to this section
Determining property ownership           $8
Each inspection to determine compliance  $10
with the provisions of this section
Each time a first-class letter is mailed $3
to an owner or owners
Preparing and sending a certified letter $5
Services preformed and perfected a lien  $10
Services rendered in the abatement of    $10 per work hour, or fraction thereof
the violation
The actual cost incurred by the Board of Public Works and Safety by the use of
each piece of equipment used for abating a violation
 
(Ord. 15-2019, passed 12-23-2019)
§ 97.06 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall review general conditions
of all city roads, annually update the Paser Road Rating Report, mileage,
inventory, and traffic study, along with other updates reports as required by
INDOT. It may be necessary for the Board of Public Works and Safety to hire
outside agencies to perform various tasks to assist. The Board of Public Works
and Safety shall submit an annual report no later than June for the Common
Council to review overall conditions and recommendations allowing the Common
Council to budget dedicated funds for the following budget year in advance.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall consider in the planning
process of various improvements on road maintenance in ensuring safety
conditions.
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may recommend the
following:
         (a)   Complete rehabilitation or reconstruction of roads;
         (b)   Overlay of two-inch minimum of hot mix asphalt milling;
         (c)   Chip and seal;
         (d)   Crack filling;
         (e)   Do nothing; or
         (f)   Stoning of edging of paved road approximately one to one and
one-half feet to avoid paving breakdown.
      (2)   The idea is to choose the methods to increase the lifespan of the
city’s roads.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall develop specifications for
items (A) through (D) of current and future INDOT specifications.
   (E)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall develop guidelines for an
effective program to fill potholes in a timely manner and/or road cuts, various
crack sealing, or pavement edging.
(Ord. 6-2019, passed 9-10-2019)
§ 97.07 VARIOUS SERVICE AND PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall establish required
guidelines furnish, or give direction on other requirements, such requirements
shall meet state codes, ADA requirements and other related sources.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may approve, reject, or wave a
required permit that maybe in conflict or for any reason reject approval for
any reasonable reason.
   (C)   Other utilities will not be required to obtain a permit, however, they
will be required to follow city ordinances for repair to streets, alleys, and
the like.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may conduct hearings to solve
problems or complaints on requirements.
   (E)   The office of Clerk-Treasurer shall issue all permits.
   (F)   Funds collected from these permits shall be deposited into the General
Fund or utility funds in relation to.
Service/Permit Type Fee
Service/Permit Type                                              Fee
Driveways, public walks, and the like
 Alley cut                                                      $10
 Installing additional or replacement of driveway area          $10
 Installing a new driveway                                      $15
 Installing a new driveway requiting a curb cut or sidewalk cut $25
 Paving a driveway                                              $20
 Repair to sidewalk cut                                         $10
 Road cut                                                       $25
Tree removal or planting on city est.
 Demolition of buildings                                        $15
 Installment or replacement of a fence less than 6 feet         $10
 Removal of trees on easement or that may be a safety hazard    $10
 Replacement or installment of a new sidewalk in easement       $10
 Small storage buildings 6x8 size                               $15
Utility lines
 Installment of new water and/or sewer lines2                   $15
 Installment of stormwater line2                                $15
 Replacement of sewer line                                      $10
 Replacement of a stormwater line                               $10
 Replacement of water line                                      $10
Notes:
1 An applicant may be required to file a personal insurance bond as deeded
acceptable by the Board of Public Works and Safety
2 May require applicant to file a bond with Clerk- Treasurer to ensure street
and alleys are returned to as good of conditions as prior to cut.
 
(Ord. 3 2018, passed 6-12-2018) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
97.01 is guilty of an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not more than $100. Each day a violation occurs or continues constitutes a
separate offense.
   (C)   It is a violation of §
97.02 to not comply with the provisions and established guidelines therein. The
following penalty is in addition to and supplemental to any fee assessments,
restoration costs or any other remedies the Street Department or the city may
have related to §
97.02: $2,500 to $5,000 fine (maximum) per street cut.
   (D)   Any violation of §
97.04 shall be punishable by a fine not less than $50 and not more than $2,500.
Each day an offense is committed shall constitute a separate offense. In
addition to this penalty, a violation of this section shall be enjoined by a
court order.
   (E)   The failure of any person, firm, corporation, or partnership or any
officer or director thereof to fail, refuse, or neglect to abate or otherwise
correct a condition on private property that exists in violation of §
97.05, after notice thereof on accordance with the terms hereof, shall be
deemed to be an ordinance violation, and upon condition thereof, any such
person, firm, corporation, or partnership or any officer or director thereof
may be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (F)   The failure of any person, firm, corporation, or partnership to obtain
a permit as described in §
97.07 is an ordinance violation, and they shall be fined $25.
(1986 Code, § 36-9-2-7) (Ord. 14, passed 6-22-1872; Ord. 160, passed 12-10-
1919; Ord. 3 2018, passed 6-12-2018; Ord. 15-2019, passed 12-23-2019; Ord. 10-
2021, passed 6-8-2021; Ord. 7-2023, passed 7-25- 2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS, AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS, AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Application for license; fee; business hours
   
110.04   Exemptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAWKER. Any person who by solicitation or outcry offers for sale or barter,
anything from any wagon, box, or other temporary stand, unconnected with any
established place of business, upon any of the streets, sidewalks, alleys, or
other public grounds of the city.
   MEDICASTER. Any person who, by outcry or solicitation, seeks to induce any
person to purchase some substance, to do something, or to submit to some
process or operation for the prevention, alleviation, or cure, of any disease,
disorder, or affliction of the human system or the system of any animal.
   PEDDLER. Any person who, by solicitation or outcry, takes anything from
house to house in any manner and offers to sell the same for money, or barter
the same for any other things, or who in like manner, exhibits any sample of
any thing to be sold, or bartered, and offers to take orders for the same, for
future delivery.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 3-25-2014)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to pursue the business
of a peddler, hawker, or medicaster, in the city limits without first obtaining
a license.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 3-25-2014) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE; BUSINESS HOURS.
   (A)   Each itinerant or transient peddler, hawker, or medicaster upon
arrival in the city, shall apply at the office of the Police Department for a
license.
   (B)   The applicant shall be required to pay the following license fee:
      (1)   One day: $25; or
      (2)   One week: $100.
   (C)   Daily hours Monday through Saturday:
      (1)   May - September: 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.; and
      (2)   October - April: 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 3-25-2014)
§ 110.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the licensing requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   Farmers or gardeners marketing or selling any farm produce raised by
them;
   (B)   Commercial traveler or drummer selling goods at wholesale to
merchants;
   (C)   Commercial traveler, other person, or organization, selling by
wholesale, to drugstores or other places where medicines are kept;
   (D)   Licensed auctioneer offering for sale at public auction any such
personal property, or real estate on behalf of an administrator, assignee,
receiver, commissioner, sheriff, or other public office, in the discharge of
his or her legal duties, or on behalf of any person offering for sale at public
auction any personal property or real estate owned by such person; or
   (E)   Solicitation by members or authorized agents of qualified
organizations as designated and approved under I.R.C. § 170(c) and/or I.R.C. §
501(c)(3), as amended; and such members or authorized agents shall provide
confirmation of said status under I.R.C. § 170(c) and/or I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), as
amended.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 3-25-2014)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, on
conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding $100. Each and every date that
such person shall follow such business of peddling, hawking, or medicaster,
without the proper license so to do, shall be deemed and held as a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 3-25-2014)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Liquor retailer’s permits
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages prohibited in parks, see §
96.16
§ 111.01 LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMITS.
   Since the city has a population of less than 5,000, the city, for purposes
of economic development of its downtown business area, authorizes this section
to allow the issuance of liquor retailer’s permits pursuant to I.C. 7-1-3-9 and
pursuant to the regulations of the State Alcohol and Tobacco Commission.
(1986 Code, § 7.1-3-9-4) (Ord. 29, passed 3-7-1889; Ord. 114, passed 4-4-1911;
Ord. passed 7-27-1937; Ord. 10, passed 9-8-1937; Ord. 2-1956, passed 5-24-1956;
Ord. 3-2017, passed 3-28-2017)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Discharge of weapons
   
130.02   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to point, aim, fire,
discharge, or to suffer any BB gun, air gun, gas gun, dart gun, bow and arrow,
crossbow, blow gun, slingshot, or any other object that is capable of firing a
projectile within the corporate limits of the city in a reckless, negligent,
dangerous manner, or in such manner that a projectile if or when fired could,
does, or has caused a substantial risk of damage or injury to another person or
the property of another.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to point, aim, fire, or
discharge, any type of revolver, pistol, or any type of a rifle or shotgun.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, or other adult person
having the care and custody of a minor under 18 years old to knowingly permit
such minor to violate division (A) above.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit violations of
divisions (A) or (B) above to occur on real property owned or otherwise legally
controlled by said person, or to permit violations of divisions (A) or (B)
above to be committed from any vehicle owned or driven by said person within
the corporate limits of the city.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Persons acting for any governmental unit in pursuance of duties and
in compliance with the law;
      (2)   Any person acting in defense of his or her life or the life of
another person or the protection of his or her property or property entrusted
to him or her by another person and in compliance with the law;
      (3)   Any person attacked by a vicious animal; or
      (4)   Any object that is manufactured, marketed, and intended for
children.
(Ord. 4-2013, passed 6-11-2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CURFEW.
   The city determines that the curfew time established by I.C. 31-37-3 as
amended, is later than reasonable for public safety and hereby advances the
curfew time within its jurisdiction by one hour.
(1986 Code, § 31-6-4-2) (Ord. 120, passed 2-20-1912; Ord. 1-1946, passed 1-21-
1946)
Statutory reference:
   Curfew local option, see I.C. 31-37-3
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of violating §
130.01(A)(1) shall be fined $25 for the first violation of that section. For
any violation of §
130.01(A)(1) after the first violation, the person shall be fined $50. If a
person who violates §
130.01(A)(1) wishes to plead guilty, he or she may pay the fine at the
Ordinance Violations Bureau located at City Hall.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating §
130.01(A)(2) shall be fined $250 for the first violation of that section. For
any violation of §
130.01(A)(2) after the first violation, the person shall be fined $500. If a
person who violates §
130.01(A)(2) wishes to plead guilty, he or she may pay the fine at the
Ordinance Violations Bureau located at City Hall.
      (3)   All fines collected upon conviction of any person charged with a
violation of any of the provisions of §
130.01 shall be paid into the city treasury, as required by law.
(Ord. 4-2013, passed 6-11-2013)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PLANNING AND ZONING
      
151.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 150: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
   
150.01   Areawide Zoning Ordinance adopted by reference
   
150.02   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
   
150.03   County Area Plan Commission
   
150.04   Mobile homes
   
150.05   Annexation policy
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 AREAWIDE ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Grant County Areawide Zoning Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
(1986 Code, § 36-7-4-600) (Ord. 1-1972, passed 3-22-1972; Ord. 7-1972, passed
11-8-1972; Ord. 1-1973, passed 3-14-1973; Ord. 5-1980, passed 9-24-1980; Ord.
5-1980, passed 7-27-1983; Ord. 7-1984, passed 11-13-1984; Ord. 5-1985, passed
5-14-1985; Ord. 8-1985, passed 10-8-1985; Ord. 3-1990, passed 6-26-1990; Ord.
4-1995, passed 11-14-1995; Ord. 5-1995, passed 11-14-1995; Ord. 6-1995, passed
11-14-1995; Ord. 5-1996, passed 8-27-1996; Ord. 10-1996, passed 12-10-1996;
Res. 5-2000, passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 7-2003, passed 12-9-2003; Ord. 12-2006,
passed 7-25-2006; Ord. 16-2006, passed 12-26-2006; Ord. 9-2008, passed 12-23-
2008; Ord. 2-08, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 13, 2014, passed 11-25-2014; Ord. 5,
passed 6-12-2018; Ord. 2019-01, passed 2-15-2019; Ord. 7-2020, passed 2-11-
2020; Ord. 8-2020, passed 2-11-2020; Ord. 10- 2020, passed 2-11-2020; Ord. 5-
2022, passed 5-10- 2022; Ord. 1-2023, passed 4-11-2023; Ord. 2-2023, passed 4-
11-2023; Ord. 3-2023, passed 4-11-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Zoning, see I.C. 36-7-4-600
§ 150.02 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Plan adopted by the city is hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
(1986 Code, § 36-7-4-500) (Ord. 1-1972, passed 3-22-1972; Ord. 5-1972, passed
11-8-1972; Ord. 5-1985, passed 5-14-1985, Ord. 7-1985, passed 10-8-1985; Ord.
5-91, passed 12-10-1991; Res. 5-96, passed 6-12-1996; Res. 10-1997, passed 10-
28-1997; Res. 7-1998, passed 10-13-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Comprehensive Plan, see I.C. 36-7-4-500
§ 150.03 COUNTY AREA PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the Area Plan Commission of Grant County
and the County Area Planning Department.
   (B)   The membership of the Area Plan Commission shall be as set forth in
I.C. 36-7-4-207(c), except that I.C. 36-7-4-207(c)(8) shall not prevail.
Instead, each such city shall have one voting representative.
(1986 Code, § 36-7-4-200) (Ord. 4-1970. passed 5-13-1970; Ord. 2-1985, passed
2-26-1985; Ord. 4-1985, passed 5-14-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Plan Commission, see I.C. 36-7-4-200
§ 150.04 MOBILE HOMES.
   The following regulations and requirements shall apply to all mobile home
communities within the corporate limits of the city.
   (A)   MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY shall be defined as set out in I.C. 16-41-27-5 .
   (B)   Any mobile home community shall be licensed by the State Department of
Health in accordance with I.C. 16-41-27-1 et seq.
   (C)   Any mobile home community shall comply with all state laws and
administrative regulations, including, but not limited to, I.C. 16-41-27-1 et
seq., 326 I.A.C. 4-1 et seq. and 410 I.A.C 6-6-1 et seq., city ordinances,
Police Department orders and requirements, Fire Department orders and
requirements, and City Code Enforcement orders and requirements.
   (D)   No manufactured home and/or mobile home shall be moved into a mobile
home community or occupied prior to being submitted for inspection both before
being moved into said community, (“Inspection 1”) and before being occupied
(“Inspection 2”). Said inspections shall be conducted by the Code Enforcement
Department (“Department”). Upon the completion of each inspection, the
Department shall notify the person or company applying for a installation
permit whether the home shall be permitted to be moved into the community and
whether said home may be occupied. The Department shall then issue an
installation permit in the event of approval. Said permit shall set out two
sections of separately issued approval: one for moving the home into the
community; and one for occupation of the home. A non-refundable inspection and
installation permit fee of $150 shall be paid to the Code Enforcement
Department at the time of Inspection 1. Any permit to move the home into the
community shall expire after ten days after issuance.
   (E)   Only mobile homes and manufactured homes originally designed and
manufactured for the purpose of semi-permanent installation and human
occupation, such as those permitted by the State Department of Health, shall be
permitted for occupation within any mobile home community. No structures such
as sheds, outbuildings, or recreational vehicles shall be allowed for
occupation or use as a restroom facility.
   (F)   An installation permit shall be completed as follows.
JONESBORO, INDIANA MOBILE HOME/MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION PERMIT
   Applicant:__________________________________
   Date: ______________________________________
   Date of Inspection 1 (Prior to Home being moved into Community):
________________________________
   VIN of Home: _______________________________
   Inspected by (Printed name): ____________________
   Permit to move home into Community is:
   __________ granted ____________ denied.
   Reason(s) for denial: __________________________
   Signed (Name and title): _______________________
   Date: ___________
   Date of Inspection 2 (Prior to Home being occupied):
   Inspected by (Printed name): ____________________
   Permit to occupy home is:
   __________ granted ____________ denied.
   Reason(s) for denial: __________________________
   Signed (Name and title): _______________________
   Date: ______________
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 150.05 ANNEXATION POLICY.
   (A)   Statement of fact.
      (1)   The city is located on U.S. Highway 35, west of the City of Gas
City and south of the City of Marion on State Road 15. The city is the only
incorporated city or town west of Gas City on U.S. Highway 35. There is no
incorporated city or town at the intersection of U.S. Highway 35 and State Road
9 or State Road 37.
      (2)   The city is located within 3 miles of Marion on State Road 15.
      (3)   The city believes that the only substantial growth that it will
experience as a city will be west of its current city limits on and in the
direction of U.S. Highway 35 and north towards Marion. The city also realizes
that other growth can occur in areas adjacent to (and to a certain extent
within the current city limits) as people and businesses located in proximity
to the city to benefit from its municipal services.
      (4)   The city has water and sewage utilities with adequate capacity for
expansion. Currently, the city believes it is the only water and sanitary sewer
service provider that can economically serve this corridor west on U.S. Highway
35 and the adjacent areas to the city corporate limits.
      (5)   The city believes that development can occur close to its corporate
limits and along these corridors in order that the current and planned
development can avail itself of the key municipal services which are provided
by the city, and that these new developments depend upon the presence of the
city, its residents, and its services as the basis for their success.
      (6)   The incorporated city, and the unincorporated metropolitan area
surrounding it, currently do, and in the foreseeable future will continue to,
function as one community and should be incorporated under one main unit of
government.
      (7)   The city hereby establishes and makes public a direction with
regard to the city’s policy toward annexation. The city herein clearly states
its intent to annex areas adjacent to the incorporated city, especially in
those cases where new or existing developments can or have availed themselves
of municipal services.
   (B)   Statement of purpose.
      (1)   In order for the city to grow in an organized and methodical
fashion, and in compliance with state law, it is appropriate for the city’s
leadership, including the city administration and the Common Council, to
establish a formal policy regarding annexation. This policy should set forth
the parameters which the city will consider in determining whether the
annexation of a certain area would comply with state law, and whether it is
fiscally responsible and in the best interests of the city, its residents and
the community at large.
      (2)   In pursuit of these ends, the following statement of Annexation
Policy sets forth the policies and parameters which the city hereby adopts as a
means of guiding the future growth of the incorporated city.
   (C)   Statement of goals. The purpose of annexation is to guide and control
the growth of the incorporated city. Therefore, the city hereby establishes the
following general goals with regard to annexation.
      (1)   All residences and businesses which are currently served by city
services, or desire service from city utilities or other city services, or need
city services (and can be efficiently provided these services by the city) may
eventually become a part of the incorporated city. In order that the general
public, especially those residents and businesses within the service area of
the city, but currently outside of the incorporated city limits, be fairly and
properly notified, this should become a matter of general public information.
      (2)   Annexation actions should not result in a material general property
tax increase within the currently incorporated community. Annexation is a
response to growth, and is intended to be pursued in a manner whose fiscal
impact on the incorporated city is fundamentally positive. Therefore, the
annexation of areas whose problems are so great that they overwhelm the revenue
streams which could be used to solve the problems should be discouraged.
      (3)   The city should continue to require the execution of “waivers of
remonstrance” for all development which is within the service area of the city
and its utilities. Considering that the infrastructure systems to which the new
developments seek to connect have been purchased by the citizens of the
incorporated city, the city’s agreement to extend such services in anticipation
of annexation is equivalent to consensus in favor of annexation.
      (4)   All of the long-range planning for the city projects that the
business center of the metropolitan area will develop west on U.S. Highway 35
and north on State Road 15. As a result, the city should pursue annexation
based on priorities which support the city’s future planning. In real terms,
therefore, the incorporated City of Jonesboro will grow west along U.S. Highway
35 and north along State Road 15 and into areas adjacent to the city’s current
corporate limits as the primary directions of growth for the city over the next
five to 15 years.
   (D)   Statement of results. The result of implementing the Annexation
Policies stated above will be the coordinated development of a single
metropolitan community with one governmental unit responsible for providing
municipal services to the entire area. Such services as roadway maintenance and
improvements, snow plowing, water, stormwater, and sewer construction and
maintenance, police protection, and other municipal services can be provided
uniformly throughout the metropolitan area as a result of incorporation.
Furthermore, the residents within the metropolitan area can participate in
electing the local officials whose decisions will most affect their quality of
life and the long-term viability of the community, and future development of
the metropolitan community can be undertaken with the clear understanding that
these developments are to be a part of the incorporated greater city community.
(Res. 2-2020, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The city hereby adopts and incorporates herein by reference the Civil
Penalties Schedule set out in 410 I.A.C. 6-6-14.1 for violations of §
150.04. Violation of any other applicable law or regulation not otherwise set
out in 410 I.A.C. 6-6-14.1 shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed
$500. Each day of violation of §
150.04 continues shall constitute a separate offense. Civil penalties collected
shall be deposited into the General Fund.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 5-28-2019)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
151.01   Vacant and abandoned buildings
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 VACANT AND ABANDONED BUILDINGS.
   Property owners are to notify city administration departments (Mayor/Clerk-
Treasurer’s office) of a vacant property by June 1 annually.
   (A)   Property owners of residential, commercial, and industrial properties
located in the city shall be required to register in writing such properties as
being empty, vacant, and/or not in use, if vacant for a period of more than 90
days. An OWNER is a person or entity legally recognizable as having an
ownership interest in a property, or has obtained judgment of foreclosure
regarding the property based on a mortgage or land contract, and whose identity
may be determined from a recorded interest.
   (B)   A property will be considered abandoned if it is:
      (1)   Vacant more than 90 days, or as in accordance with Administrative
Code Guidelines;
      (2)   The subject of an unresolved enforcement action before the Board of
Public Works and Safety or in County Court;
      (3)   Not maintained in compliance with city or county code or state
building or fire codes; and/or
      (4)   Classified as an unsafe property under the Unsafe Building Act
(I.C. 36-7-9)
   (C)   (1)   A property will be considered vacant if such property is not:
         (a)   Inhabited (as may be declared by County Area Plan or Health
Department);
         (b)   Maintained in a condition which permits immediate inhabitation;
         (c)   Currently connected to public utilities such as power and/or
water;
         (d)   Boarded or partially boarded up in excess of 90 days; and/or
         (e)   An unsafe property under the Unsafe Building Act (I.C. 36-7-9).
      (2)   A property is not vacant if it is actively listed for sale by an
state licensed real estate agent and remains maintained, or residence of an
individual actively serving in the United States Military.
   (D)   Owners will be required to notify the city when such residential,
commercial, and industrial properties become inhabited or put back into use and
a timeline for the same. If notification is not made by the owner, the
presumption shall be that the building remains vacant.
   (E)   A registration form and registration fee of $100 will be required for
each vacant property, each year of vacancy exceeding 90 days. The registration
will require the property owner’s name, address, and 24-hour contact number in
case of emergency. A registration sticker shall be posted on the building.
False information provided shall invalidate the registration. The length of
time may vary based on guidelines.
   (F)   In the first year of the program, the owners shall have until July 1
to register, starting in 2020 and subsequent years, July 1 shall be the
deadline to register.
(Ord. 4-2020, passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any property owner failing to register, as described in §
151.01, shall receive a citation for an ordinance violation up to $2,500 plus
any court or attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 4-2020, passed 2-11-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Chapter
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
V.   REAL ESTATE; SALE AND TRANSFER
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
10-1999       - -1999     Annexing 5 parcels of real estate to the city
                        Parcel 1: Lot One of Gann Estates Section One, an
                          addition to Grant County
                        Parcel 2: Lot Two of Gann Estates Section One, an
                          addition to Grant County
                        Parcel 3: Lot Three of Gann Estates Section One, an
                          addition to Grant County
                          Parcel 4: 26.20 acres, more or less, being part of
                        the southeast quarter of Section 5, Township 23
                          north, Range 8 east, in Mill Township
                          Parcel 5: 23.18 acres in the southeast quarter of
                        Section 5, Township 23 north, Range 8 east, and the
                          southwest quarter of Section 4, Township 23 north,
                          Range 8 east, Grant County
                          Annexing certain real estate, contiguous to the city,
15-2006       10-24-2006  containing approximately 39.69 acres and described as
                          follows:
                        Legal Description: PT SE SEC 32 39.69A 06-02-363 and
                          366.01
                        Map No. 27-07-32-400-014.00 0-008
                        Parcel No. 006-02042-60
                         
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 4-2000   2-22-2000   Authorizing the transfer of a cable television
                          franchise from Time Warner Entertainment to Comcast
                         
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Res.  12-18- Vacating Second Avenue, from Pearl Street to James Street except the east half
1-    1967   of Second Avenue between the south line of an alley running east and west
1967         between Pearl Street and James Street and the south boundary of James Street
—   6-11-  Vacating Ann Alley between Seventh and Eighth Streets, due east of Fairmount
      1985   Avenue (one- half block)
5-    7-13-  Closing a portion of a public way in the city, being a part of the southeast
1993  1993   quarter of Section 4, Township 23 north, Range 8 east in Mill Township
             Vacating a portion of an unnamed alley in Love’s First Addition to the city,
6-    8-27-  beginning at the southwest corner of Lot Number Two and running south 16.5
1996  1996   feet, then east for 132 feet, then north for 16.5 feet, then west 132 feet to
             the point of origin
             Vacating a portion of two public ways being a part of the southeast fractional
5-    10- -  quarter of Section 4, Township 23 north, Range 8 east in Mill Township: one
1999  1999   commencing at the northwest corner of Lot Number 270 as platted in Douglas
             Park Addition; also an unnamed alley commencing at the northwest corner of Lot
             Number 277 as platted in Douglas Park Addition
3-    4-23-  Vacating a portion of public ways commonly known as:
2002  2002
           The alley between Tenth Street and Eleventh Street, contiguous to Lots
             Numbered 125 through 126, in the Douglas Park Addition; and
           The west half of Wiley Street, contiguous to Lot Number 124, in the Douglas
             Park Addition
2,    8-14-  Vacating a part of an alley located in D.S. Hiatt’s Addition to the Town of
2010  2010   Jonesboro
6-    - -    Vacating part of 11th Street per Love’s First Addition to the Town of
2016  2016   Jonesboro, lying between Lot Number 4 and Lot Number 5 in said Love’s Addition
2-    1-28-  Vacating an easement for a public road and right-of-way over and across real
2020  2020   estate located in the city
2-    3-22-  Vacating an alley between the Norfolk and Southern Railroad right- of-way and
2022  2022   lots 129. 119, 114. 107, and 102 in the Ohio Addition
            
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
3-2001        - -         Rezoning the southeast corner of 6th Street and
                          Gulick from Local Business to Residential-3
                          Rezoning certain real estate from Local Business to
3-2002        - -2002     General Business, being known as the southeast corner
                          of 6th Street and Gulick
                         
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE; SALE AND TRANSFER
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Sale of certain surplus property, being 20-01-237 Lot
Res. 2018-3   6-26-2018   C of the Ohio Addition, more known commonly as Pearl
                          Street
                          Transfer of certain property, being a parcel under
Res. 6-2023   12-12-2023  the ownership of Fung Shen, to the Redevelopment
                          Commission
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1986 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Code Section Code Section
I.C. Code Section      Code Section
1-1-1-5                10.04
1-1-1-7                10.12
1-1-1-8                10.06
1-1-2-1                10.17
1-1-4-5                10.05
1-1-5-1                10.11
1-1-6-1                10.08
1-1-9-1                30.03
1-1-10-1               30.04
4-33-12-6              31.25
4-33-13                31.25
5-3-1                  93.08
5-4-1-18               30.05
5-10.1-2-1 et-seq.     32.02
5-10.1-2-1             32.02
5-11                   31.23
5-11-1-27(j)           30.07
5-11-1-27(l)           30.07
5-16-9                 71.03
5-22                   30.38;
                       31.04
6-1.1-12-1 et seq.     31.01
6-1.1-12.1-2.5 et seq. 31.01
7.1-3-9                111.01
8-1-2-101.5            52.38
8-1-2-103              50.26
8-1-5-3-9              52.38
8-1-3-9.1              52.38
8-1.5-2                52.02
8-1.5-3-9.1            52.01
8-1.5-3.5              50.26
8-1.5-5-7              51.085
9-13                   70.01
9-13-2-69-7            72.01
9-13-2-121             93.02
9-17-4-2               70.03
9-18-12                93.03;
                       96.03
9-18-12-1 et seq.      93.02
9-18-18                71.03
9-18-22                71.03
9-21-1-3               Ch. 70;
                       70.01
9-21-9-3               72.03
9-21-17-19             70.19
9-22-1-13(B)           93.05
9-22-1-27              93.10
10-14-3-29             70.04
10-16-7-5              32.05
10-16-7-7              32.05
15-17-5                94.02
16-31-1                70.01
16-41-27-1 et seq.     150.04
16-41-27-5             50.32
22-9-1-4 et seq.       90.02
22-9-1-12.1            32.01
22-9.5-1 et seq.       90.01
22-9.5-2-2             90.02
22-9.5-2-3             90.02
22-9.5-2-4             90.02
22-9.5-2-8             90.02
22-9.5-2-9             90.02
22-9.5-2-11            90.02
22-9.5-2-13            90.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.       90.10
22-9.5-3               90.03
22-9.5-4-8             90.11
22-9.5-5               90.02
22-9.5-5-1             90.03
22-9.5-6               90.02;
                       90.11
22-11-14-6             95.06
22-11-14-10.5          95.06
26-2-7                 50.28
31-37-3                130.02
32-31-3-3              90.12
32-31-3-4              90.12
32-31-3-5              90.12
32-31-3-8              90.12
32-31-3-10             90.12
32-31-3-18             90.12
34-24-3                50.28
34-28-5-1              96.03
35-36-3-4.3            94.02
35-46-3                94.10;
                       94.11
35-46-3-1(1)           94.04
35-46-3-7—35-46-3-13 94.28
36-1-3-1 et seq.       30.01
36-1-3-1               30.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)        10.99
36-1-6-3               33.01;
                       33.04
36-1-8-3               31.32
36-1-11                93.08
36-1-12                30.38
36-1-12-3              30.38
36-1-20-1.5            90.12
36-1-20-4              90.12
36-5-2-2               10.15
36-5-2-9               30.02;
                       30.20
36-5-3-2               32.03
36-5-4-1               31.27
36-7-4-200             150.03
36-7-4-207(c)          150.03
36-7-4-500             150.02
36-7-4-600             150.01
36-7-14                30.35
36-7-9                 151.01
36-7-9-4               52.17
36-7-9-14              93.10
36-7-14-6.1            30.35
36-7-14-11 et seq.     30.35
36-9-2-7               Ch. 97
36-9-15.5              31.20
36-9-15.5-2            31.20
36-9-23-1              53.03
36-9-30-21             53.05
36-10-3-11             96.01
36-10-3-17             96.01
                       
 
REFERENCES TO 1986 CODE
1986 Code Section Code Section
1986 Code Section Code Section
1-1-2-1           10.17
1-1-9-1           30.03
1-1-10-1          30.04
5-10.1-2-1        32.02
7.1-3-9-4         111.01
9-4-1-28          70.01
22-9-1-12.1       32.01
31-6-4-2          130.02
36-1-3-1          30.01
36-5-2-9          30.02;
                  30.20
36-5-3-2          32.03
36-5-4-1          31.27
36-7-4-200        150.03
36-7-4-500        150.02
36-7-4-600        150.01
                  97.01;
36-9-2-7          97.03;
                  97.99
36-9-23-1         51.035—
                  51.037
                  96.01—
                  96.03;
36-10-3-3         96.15—
                  96.23;
                  96.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1-1967   12-18-1967  T.S.O. III
5-96     6-12-1996   150.02
12, 1996 12-30-1996  32.03
10-1997  10-28-1997  150.02
7-1998   10-13-1998  150.02
4-2000   2-22-2000   T.S.O. II
5-2000   3-14-2000   150.01
6-2003   9-23-2003   30.37
2-2005   4-12-2005   31.03
7-2013   12-10-2013  31.25
3 2016   5-24-2016   30.08
2016-4   9-27-2016   34.15
3        8-22-2017   34.01
2018-3   6-26-2018   T.S.O. V
1-2019   2-26-2019   31.20
2-2020   10-27-2020  150.05
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
3-2001   - -         T.S.O. IV
6-2001   - -         32.03
7-2001   - -         32.03
10-2013  - -         32.03
5-2016   - -         52.45
1        12-31-1866  30.02;
                     30.20
                     97.01;
14       6-22-1872   97.03;
                     97.99
29       3-7-1889    111.01
114      4-4-1911    111.01
120      2-20-1912   130.02
126      6-6-1914    32.03
129      2-2-1915    32.03
131      6-4-1916    32.03
145      1-14-1918   32.03
155      2-11-1919   32.03
156      9-9-1919    32.03
                     97.01;
160      12-10-1919  97.03;
                     97.99
162      2-10-1920   32.03
167      5-10-1921   32.03
-        7-27-1937   111.01
10       9-8-1937    111.01
1-1946   1-21-1946   130.02
3-1947   12-8-1947   70.01
4-1947   12-29-1947  32.03
2-1951   9-10-1951   32.02
2-1956   5-24-1956   111.01
8-1957   6-13-1957   51.035;
                     51.036
10-1957  7-25-1957   51.035;
                     51.036
15-1957  11-14-1957  51.035;
                     51.036
1-1961   6-8-1961    51.035;
                     51.036
2-1961   6-22-1961   51.035;
                     51.036
                     96.01—
                     96.03;
3-1962   7-12-1962   96.15—
                     96.23;
                     96.99
-        11-26-1963  51.035—
                     51.037
3-1967   9-12-1967   32.03
5-1969   12-23-1969  32.03
4-1970   5-13-1970   150.03
1-1972   3-22-1972   150.01;
                     150.02
5-1972   11-8-1972   150.02
7-1972   11-8-1972   150.01
2-1973   1-24-1973   32.03
1-1973   3-14-1973   150.01
1-1973   5-23-1973   51.035—
                     51.037
-        1-21-1974   32.03
1-1976   1-28-1976   32.03
1-1977   2-23-1977   32.03
-        4-27-1977   32.03
2-1977   12-28-1977  32.03
4-1978   12-27-1978  32.03
-        12-26-1979  32.03
                     96.01—
                     96.03;
6-1980   9-21-1980   96.15—
                     96.23;
                     96.99
5-1980   9-24-1980   150.01
2-1981   3-11-1981   32.03
1-1981   6-28-1981   32.03
1-1981   7-22-1981   51.035—
                     51.037
6-1981   10-14-1981  51.035—
                     51.037
1-1982   1-13-1983   32.03
3-1983   4-13-1983   32.03
5-1980   7-27-1983   150.01
1-1984   3-13-1984   51.035—
                     51.037
2-1984   3-27-1984   51.035—
                     51.037
3-1984   3-27-1984   51.035—
                     51.037
5-1984   4-10-1984   32.03
7-1984   11-13-1984  150.01
1-1985   1-8-1985    32.03
2-1985   2-26-1985   150.03
3-1985   3-12-1985   32.03
4-1985   5-14-1985   150.03
5-1985   5-14-1985   150.01;
                     150.02
6-1985   5-14-1985   32.03
-        6-11-1985   T.S.O. III
7-1985   10-8-1985   150.02
8-1985   10-8-1985   150.01
2-1986   2-25-1986   32.03
-        3-11-1986   32.03
2-1990   1-9-1990    32.03
3-1990   6-26-1990   150.01
5-91     12-10-1991  150.02
1-1992   1-14-1992   32.03
7-1993   - -1993     51.037
5-1993   7-13-1993   T.S.O. III
8-1993   8-10-1993   32.03
11-1993  12-14-1993  32.03
1-1994   1-25-1994   32.03
7-1994   10-25-1994  51.037
9-1994   11-22-1994  51.037
11-1994  12-20-1994  51.037
12-1994  12-20-1994  51.037
                     94.01;
2-1995   9-12-1995   94.04—
                     94.08;
                     94.99
4-1995   11-14-1995  150.01
5-1995   11-14-1995  150.01
6-1995   11-14-1995  150.01
7-1995   11-28-1995  32.03
1-1996   5-14-1996   32.03
3-1996   7-23-1996   33.02
4-1996   7-23-1996   32.03
5-1996   8-27-1996   150.01
6-1996   8-27-1996   T.S.O. III
8-1996   11-26-1996  32.03
9-1996   12-10-1996  32.03
10-1996  12-10-1996  150.01
2-1997   3-8-1997    51.037
4-1997   7-29-1997   32.03
7-1998   - -1998     32.03
2-1998   2-10-1998   50.03
5-1998   7-28-1998   32.03
10-1999  - -1999     T.S.O. I
7-1999   8-18-1999   32.03
5-1999   10- -1999   T.S.O. III
9-1999   10-12-1999  32.03
8-1999   10-26-1999  96.15
                     95.01—
11-1999  11-23-1999  95.05;
                     95.99
9-2001   - -2000     50.04
1-2000   6-27-2000   52.01
3-2000   8-8-2000    32.03
4-2000   8-15-2000   32.03
5-2000   11-14-2000  97.02
1-2001   2-27-2001   32.03
3-2002   - -2002     T.S.O. IV
1-2002   4-9-2002    70.18;
                     70.99
                     51.001—
                     51.004;
                     51.015—
                     51.024;
                     51.038—
2-2002   4-23-2002   51.044;
                     51.055—
                     51.058;
                     51.070—
                     51.074;
                     51.999
3-2002   4-23-2002   T.S.O. III
6-2002   7-9-2002    32.03
7-2002   8-27-2002   32.03
8-2002   9-10-2002   32.03
9-2002   10-8-2002   30.22
1-2003   3-11-2003   32.03
2-2003   4-22-2003   51.039
3-2003   8-26-2003   32.03
4-2003   8-26-2003   32.03
7-2003   12-9-2003   150.01
5-2003   12-23-2003  51.037
1-2005   2-8-2005    32.03
6-2005   3-22-2005   31.01
7-2005   5-24-2005   94.03;
                     94.99
9-2005   7-26-2005   32.03
10-2005  7-26-2005   32.03
17-2006  - -2006     32.03
1-2006   3-14-2006   32.03
5-2006   5-9-2006    94.03;
                     94.99
6-2006   5-23-2006   32.03
7-2006   6-27-2006   30.21
9-2006   7-25-2006   30.36
12-2006  7-25-2006   150.01
8-2006   8-8-2006    32.03
10-2006  9-12-2006   94.03;
                     94.99
15-2006  10-24-2006  T.S.O. I
16-2006  12-26-2006  150.01
2-2007   - -2007     32.03
3-2007   - -2007     32.03
4-2007   12-26-2007  94.02
2-08     3-18-2008   150.01
9-2008   12-23-2008  150.01
3, 2009  5-12-2009   31.26
4-2009   10-13-2009  51.037
5-2009   10-13-2009  51.037
4-2010   - -2010     32.03
5-2010   - -2010     32.03
2, 2010  8-14-2010   T.S.O. III
2-2011   9-27-2011   32.03
3-2011   9-27-2011   32.03
2-2012   3-13-2012   32.03
3-2012   3-13-2012   32.03
                     92.01—
2012-5   6-12-2012   92.06;
                     92.99
2-2013   1-22-2013   32.03
3-2013   1-22-2013   32.03 
4-2013   6-11-2013   130.01;
                     130.99
2013-6   6-11-2013   31.22
2013-7   6-11-2013   31.24
2013-8   6-11-2013   31.23
14-2013  11-12-2013  51.037
15-2013  11-12-2013  51.037
                     110.01—
2014-3   3-25-2014   110.03;
                     110.99
4-2014   3-25-2014   32.03
5-2014   4-8-2014    32.03
6-2014   4-8-2014    32.03
9-2014   6-24-2014   32.03
13, 2014 11-25-2014  150.01
                     90.01—
2015-1   5-12-2015   90.11;
                     90.99
2-2015   6- -2015    31.20
3-2015   6-9-2015    30.35
4-2015   7-24-2015   50.01
5-2015   8-25-2015   50.02
6, 2015  9- -2015    31.21
8-2015   12-22-2015  30.05
3-2016   - -2016     52.23
6-2016   - -2016     T.S.O. III
7-2016   6-28-2016   53.01—
                     53.05
9-2016   9-27-2016   31.26
10-2016  9-27-2016   31.26
12 2016  10-25-2016  32.03
13 2016  10-25-2016  32.03
14 2016  12-27-2016  31.05
15-2016  12-27-2016  31.31
16-2016  12-27-2016  31.32
17-2016  12-27-2016  32.33
18-2016  12-27-2016  30.08
19 2016  12-27-2016  32.03
20 2016  12-27-2016  32.03
21-2016  12-27-2016  32.03
22 2016  12-27-2016  32.03
1-2017   1-24-2017   32.03
3-2017   3-28-2017   111.01
4 2017   8-8-2017    31.06
6 2017   11-14-2017  31.03
8-2017   8- -2017    32.03
7-2017   11-14-2017  32.03
9-2017   11-14-2017  32.03
10-2017  11-14-2017  32.03
11-2017  11-14-2017  31.27
12-2017  11-14-2017  31.27
13-2017  11-14-2017  31.24
14-2017  11-14-2017  31.24
15-2017  11-14-2017  31.23
16-2017  11-14-2017  31.23
2-2018   1-9-2018    32.06
3 2018   6-12-2018   97.07;
                     97.99
5        6-12-2018   150.01
2018-4   8-12-2018   33.01—
                     33.07
7 2018   6-12-2018   30.41
8-2018   9-11-2018   95.06;
                     95.99
12 2018  10-23-2018  32.03
13 2018  10-23-2018  32.03
14 2018  12-11-2018  32.04
15 2018  12-11-2018  32.05
2019-01  2-15-2019   150.01
2-2019   5-28-2019   150.04;
                     150.05
6-2019   9-10-2019   97.06
8-2019   8-27-2019   32.03
9 2019   8-27-2019   32.03
10 2019  8-27-2019   31.02
13-2019  12-23-2019  51.085;
                     51.086
14-2019  11-12-2019  30.40
15-2019  12-23-2019  97.05;
                     97.99
1-2020   1-28-2020   50.32
2-2020   1-28-2020   T.S.O. III
3-2020   2-11-2020   90.12
4-2020   2-11-2020   151.01;
                     151.99
7-2020   2-11-2020   150.01
8-2020   2-11-2020   150.01
10-2020  2-11-2020   150.01
11-2020  6-9-2020    52.45
14-2020  6-23-2020   31.30
17-2020  11-20-2020  31.28
19-2020  11-10-2020  31.34
20-2020  11-20-2020  31.28
1-2021   6-22-2021   52.15—
                     52.51
3-2021   2-23-2021   32.03
6-2021   4-13-2021   32.03
7-2021   4-13-2021   32.03
9-2021   5-25-2021   31.29
10-2021  6-8-2021    97.04;
                     97.99
                     72.01—
11-2021  7-13-2021   72.09;
                     72.99
                     93.01—
24-2021  12-28-2001  93.10;
                     93.99
                     94.01—
                     94.28;
25-2021  12-28-2021  94.40—
                     94.42;
                     94.99
1-2022   3-8-2022    50.15—
                     50.30
2-2022   3-22-2022   T.S.O. III
3-2022   4-26-2022   70.04;
                     70.99
                     91.01—
                     91.07;
4-2022   5-10-2022   91.20—
                     91.26;
                     91.99
5-2022   5-10-2022   150.01
8 2022   11-22-2022  30.07
9-2022   11-22-2022  50.31
1-2023   4-11-2023   150.01
2-2023   4-11-2023   150.01
3-2023   4-11-2023   150.01
4-2023   7-25-2023   31.04
5-2023   7-25-2023   30.39
6-2023   12-12-2023  T.S.O. V
7-2023   7-25-2023   97.02; 97.77
8-2023   7-25-2023   50.28
12-2023  12-12-2023  32.03
13-2023  12-12-2023  32.03
                     52.02;
14-2023  11-28-2023  Ch. 52, App. A;
                     Ch. 52, App. B
15-2023  11-14-2023  30.06
17-2023  12-27-2023  72.99
18-2023  12-27-2023  53.03;
                     53.99
19-2023  12-27-2023  30.38
20-2023  12-27-2023  50.28
                     70.01—
                     70.03;
                     70.15—
1-2024   - -2024     70.22;
                     70.99;
                     71.01—
                     71.06;
                     71.99
                    
 
 
