TOWN OF KIRKLIN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-2-4, passed 2-10-2025; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2025 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 1
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
of the
TOWN OF KIRKLIN, INDIANA
Melinda Jobe - President
David Stetler - Vice President
Craig Hudzinski - Council Member
Jerald Faucett - Council Member
Walter Minnick - Council Member
Tara Walker - Clerk-Treasurer
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ADOPTING ORDINANCE NO. 2015-12-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF KIRKLIN INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in a
codified form; and
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Kirklin has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the town of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in a codified
form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Town and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect at an early
date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF KIRKLIN, INDIANA.
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Kirklin, Indiana".
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section I shall consist
of the Titles as shown on Exhibit A attached hereto.
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part by such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
graining or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeat affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of Kirklin
is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in
the Office of the Clerk in paper and/or digital form.
   Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the town of Kirklin, Indiana on this
14th day of December, 2015.
Walt Minnick /s/
Walt Minnick, President, Town Council
ATTEST:
Mary King /s/
Mary King, Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
 
   
10.99   General penalty; enforcement procedures
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Kirklin, Indiana,
shall be designated as the “Municipal Code of the Town of Kirklin, Indiana” and
may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
Indiana Code.
   (B)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the Indiana
Code, such reference indicates that the section is analogous or similar to the
cited section(s) in the Indiana Code. Footnotes, cross-references, and other
comments are by way of explanation only and should not be deemed a part of the
text of any section.
   (C)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the municipal corporation; although the same may not
be so limited specifically.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, not incompatible with future legislation, shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or ordinary and
usual sense.
      (2)   But technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
(I.C. 1-1-4-1)
   (B)   For the purposes of this code, unless otherwise specifically provided,
the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings ascribed to
them respectively.
      COUNTY. Clinton County, Indiana.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, or joint tenant of the whole or
a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      POPULATION. The population according to the most recent federal special
or decennial census.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements, hereditaments, and all chattels real.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines of the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      STATE. State of Indiana.
      STREET. Except as provided in the traffic code, the entire width between
property lines of every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof
is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right.
      THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The municipal code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      TOWN. The Town of Kirklin, Indiana.
      TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of Kirklin, Indiana.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   “AND” or “OR”. Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute requires an act to be done which,
by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the requisition is
satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its
application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of an ordinance containing a nonseverability
provision, each part and application of every ordinance is severable. If any
provision or application of an ordinance is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the ordinance unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with, and
so dependent upon, the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   The repeal of an ordinance stating that the provisions of an act are
severable, as provided in division (B) above, does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever one section references another section hereof, such reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed or materially
altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by these rules,
by order of the court, or by any applicable statute, the day of the act, event,
or default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included unless it
is:
      (1)   A Saturday;
      (2)   A Sunday;
      (3)   A legal holiday as defined by state statute; or
      (4)   A day the office in which the act is to be done is closed during
regular business hours.
   (B)   (1)   In any event, the period runs until the end of the next day that
is not a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the office is
closed.
      (2)   When the period of time allowed is less than seven days,
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, legal holidays, and days on which the office
is closed shall be excluded from the computations.
(Ind. Trial Rule 6(A))
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed, from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this code, for
which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined $100 for a
first offense, $150 for a second offense and $250 for a third or subsequent
offense. See I.C. 36-1-3-8.
   (B)   Enforcement procedures.
      (1)   Any action to enforce an ordinance or code section shall be
initiated by filing a complaint and summons (complaint) in the county’s
Superior or Circuit Court.
      (2)   The complaint shall be signed by any sworn police officer, Town
Attorney, or Town Council President.
      (3)   The officers, in their reasonable discretion, may issue warning
tickets which allow the person or landowner who is cited to remedy the alleged
ordinance violation within such time as is approved by the enforcement officer,
which time shall not exceed 30 days without good cause.
      (4)   If an alleged violation is not remedied within the time on a
warning, the officers may issue a new complaint.
      (5)   In the event the ordinance violation concerns the condition or
improvement of a parcel of real estate, the officer may, as opposed to citing
the person in possession of the real estate, issue the complaint to the owner
of the real estate. The name and address of the landowner shall be obtained
from the property records maintained by the County Auditor. The officers shall
attach a copy of the property record information to the complaint. Such
complaint, along with a copy of the property record information shall
constitute prima facie proof of the ownership of the real estate where the
violation occurred.
      (6)   In the event any ordinance does not specifically provide that the
violation thereof is an infraction, then the violation of the ordinance shall
be a Class C infraction. Any subsequent violation within one year of the
judgment of a violation of a first offense shall be a Class B infraction. Each
day of any violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (7)   It is the intent of the enforcement procedures of this code of
ordinances that all persons comply with the ordinances of the town. To that
end, the Town Council encourages the use of the town’s Deferral Program
pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5-1(f).
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   BRANCHES OF THE GOVERNMENT
      
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATION
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Smoking prohibited in municipal buildings
   
30.02   Price preferences for local businesses
   
30.03   Participation in the National Flood Insurance Program
   
30.04   Notice provisions and grievance procedure under the Americans with
Disabilities Act
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest and nepotism policy, see §
34.03
§ 30.01 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS. Those structures owned, leased, or otherwise
occupied by the town, including, but not limited to, all areas within said
buildings or any additions thereto.
      PERSON. Any man, woman, or child, regardless of age.
      SMOKE or SMOKING. To ignite, or cause to be ignited, tobacco, tobacco
product, or derivative, which includes, but is not limited to, tobacco or a
derivative thereof, such that the product or derivative emits a gas or cloud
which is commonly understood to be SMOKE, which may be, or is intended to be,
inhaled by any person.
   (B)   No person shall have in his or her possession any lighted tobacco
product or tobacco derivative including, but not limited to, pipes, cigars,
cigarettes, or other devices used for the smoking of tobacco or tobacco-like
products, while within any public meeting rooms located within any municipal
building. The Town Council may, by written order, designate one area in each
fire station where the possession of a lighted tobacco product may be lawful,
and appropriate signage may be installed advising occupants of such structures
of such locations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.02 PRICE PREFERENCES FOR LOCAL BUSINESSES.
   In order to comply with the terms of I.C. 5-22-15-20.9, the Council hereby
establishes the following policy for determining whether a bidder, quoter, or
supplier is entitled to a preference as set out in I.C. 5-22-15-20.9.
   (A)   Contract preference policy.
      (1)   The terms of this policy apply to any entity (“claimant”) which
tenders a bid or quote to the town.
      (2)   In order to qualify for a local government preference, the claimant
must include its claim for a local state business preference with the quote or
bid and be clearly marked “Claim for Bid Preference”.
      (3)   Included in the claim, the claimant must show its principal place
of business and include the following documentation:
         (a)   Registration with the state’s Secretary of State, listing an
affected county as the business’s primary place of business;
         (b)   Registration of business with the County Recorder, listing an
affected county as the business’s primary place of business; and
         (c)   Copies of federal and state IRS filing statements, (redacting
all financial and confidential information) evidencing an affected county as
the primary place of business.
      (4)   If the claim is based on the claimant’s payroll, the claimant must
state that it pays a majority (51% or greater) of its total company payroll to
residents in an affected county. The claim shall include total payroll for the
entire business and the amount of payroll paid to employees residing in the
affected counties. The information must be stated in total dollar values for
the 12 months immediately preceding the bid date.
      (5)   If the claim is based on the number of employees in affected
counties, the claimant shall include information that the claimant employs
residents of affected counties as a majority (51% or greater) of the total
company employees, including the total number of employees of the company, and
the number of employees who are residents of an affected county for the 12
months immediately preceding the bid date.
      (6)   If the claim is based on a “significant capital investment” in the
affected counties, the claimant must define its total investment in real or
depreciable personal property in the affected counties and itemize the
investment in such property in the three calendar years prior to the claim. The
total of the capital investment made in the past three years must exceed 10% of
the average gross income of the claimant in the past two calendar years.
      (7)   If the claim of preference is based upon a “substantial” positive
economic impact on the affected counties, the town shall use the criteria set
out in divisions (A)(4), (A)(5), and (A)(6) above.
      (8)   If the bidder is a joint venture and is claiming local preference,
the town will evaluate the joint venture by combining each business’s total
payroll, payroll paid to residents of affected counties, total number of
employees, and total number of employees who are residents of affected
counties. Further, each entity participating in the joint venture shall submit
proof of the location of its principal place of business. The town will
determine whether the joint venture qualifies as a local state business as
defined herein by evaluating the joint venture as one business, not as separate
businesses, using the criteria set out in divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5).
All members of the joint venture must provide information described above. The
total overall joint venture must qualify as a local state business to receive
the local preference as defined above.
      (9)   The town may request copies of additional documents necessary to
support any allegations included in the claim for bid preference. Failure to
provide such information within 14 days of the request will result in a denial
of the claim for bid preference.
   (B)   Verification. The claim for preference shall be verified as follows:
   I,__________, as (officer) of (company) verify under the penalties of
perjury that the facts set out in the above claim for price preference are
true.
   Signature __________
   Printed __________
   (C)   Applicability. The policy set out above shall be included in all bid
packets for projects bid by any department of the town.
   (D)   Validity of bid. Any contractor who attempts to claim a preference
under this agreement and fails to comply with this section shall have his or
her bid considered with all other bids submitted for the project, but shall be
disqualified from the bidding preference included in I.C. 5-22-15-20.9(d).
§ 30.03 PARTICIPATION IN THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The town assures the Federal Insurance Administration that it will
enact as necessary and maintain in force, in those areas having flood, mudslide
(i.e. mudflow), or flood-related erosion hazards, adequate land use and control
measures with effective enforcement provisions consistent with the criteria set
forth in §§ 59 et seq. of the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations,
being 44 C.F.R. §§ 59 et seq.
   (B)   The town vests the County Area Plan Commission Zoning Administrator
with the responsibility, authority, and means to:
      (1)   Assist the FEMA Administrator, at his or her request, in the
delineation of the limits of the area having special flood, mudslide, or flood-
related erosion hazards;
      (2)   Provide information the FEMA Administrator may request concerning
present uses and occupancy of the floodplain, mudslide, or flood-related
erosion areas;
      (3)   Cooperate with federal, state, and local agencies and private firms
which undertake to study, survey, map, and identify floodplain, mudflow, or
flood-related erosion areas, and cooperate with neighboring communities with
respect to management of adjoining floodplain, mudslide, and/or flood-related
erosion areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards;
      (4)   Submit, on forms provided by the FEMA Administrator, an annual
report on the progress made during the past year within the community in the
development and implementation of floodplain management measures; and
      (5)   Upon occurrence, notify the FEMA Administrator in writing whenever
the boundaries of the community have been modified by annexation or the
community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations for a particular area. Include an accurate
corporate limit map suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new
corporate limits or new area for which the community has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority. The community will use
the Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Hazard Boundary Map published for the
community from which land areas were annexed, or from that political entity
that previously had regulatory authority, until the Administrator provides a
map using the new corporate limits.
   (C)   The town appoints the County Area Plan Commission to maintain for
public inspection and to furnish upon request (for determining flood insurance
premium rates), the following information on all new and substantially improved
structures constructed within the identified special flood hazard area:
      (1)   The actual (as-built) lowest floor (including basement) elevation
in relation to mean sea level;
      (2)   Any certificates of flood-proofing;
      (3)   Whether or not a building has a basement; and
      (4)   For all flood-proofed structures, the elevation to which the
structure has been flood- proofed.
   (D)   The town agrees to take such other official action as may be
reasonably necessary to carry out the objectives of the program.
(Res. 8-11-14-D, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 30.04 NOTICE PROVISIONS AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE UNDER THE AMERICANS WITH
DISABILITIES ACT.
   (A)   Declaration. The following declaration is a written policy of the town
and shall be posted in the Town Hall.
   “NOTICE UNDER THE AMERICAN WITH DISABILITIES ACT
   In accordance with the requirements of title II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), the Town of Kirklin will not discriminate
against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of disability in
its services, programs, or activities.
   Employment: The Town of Kirklin does not discriminate on the basis of
disability in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all
regulations promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
under title I of the ADA.
   Effective Communication: The Town of Kirklin will generally, upon request,
provide appropriate aids and services leading to effective communication for
qualified persons with disabilities so they can participate equally in the Town
of Kirklin's programs, services, and activities, including qualified sign
language interpreters, documents in Braille, and other ways of making
information and communications accessible to people who have speech, hearing,
or vision impairments.
   Modifications to Policies and Procedures: The Town of Kirklin will make all
reasonable modifications to policies and programs to ensure that people with
disabilities have an equal opportunity to enjoy all of its programs, services,
and activities. For example, individuals with service animals are welcomed in
Kirklin offices, even where pets are generally prohibited.
   Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective communication,
or modification of policies or procedures to participate in a program, service,
or activity of the Town of Kirklin, should contact the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer, 765-279-8786, 113 North Main Street, Kirklin, IN 46050.
   The Town of Kirklin will not place a surcharge on a particular individual
with a disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the
cost of providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of
policy, such as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public but
are not accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.”
   (B)   Grievance Procedures under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
      (1)   This grievance procedure is established to meet the requirements of
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). It may be used by anyone who
wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of disability
in the provisions of services, activities, programs, or benefits by the town.
The town’s personnel policy governs employment-related complaints of disability
discrimination.
      (2)   The complaint should be in writing and contain information about
the alleged discrimination such as name, address, phone number of complainant,
and location, date and description of the problem. Alternative means of fling
complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint,
will be made available for persons with disabilities upon request.
      (3)   The complaint should be submitted by the grievant and/or his/her
designee as soon as possible but no later than 60 calendar days after the
alleged violation to:
Clerk-Treasurer
Kirklin Community Center, P.O. Box 147
113 North Main Street
Kirklin, IN 46050
      (4)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, the Clerk-
Treasurer or his or her designee will meet with the complainant to discuss the
complaint and the possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days of the meeting,
the Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee will respond in writing, and where
appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant, such as large print,
Braille, or audio tape. The response will explain the position of the town and
offer options for substantive resolution of the complaint.
      (5)   If response by the Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee does not
satisfactorily resolve the issue, the complainant and/or his or her designee
may appeal the decision within 15 calendar days after receipt of the response
to the Town Council President or his or her designee.
      (6)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the appeal, the Town
Council President or his or her designee will meet with the complainant to
discuss the complaint and possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days after
the meeting, the Town Council President or his or her designee will respond in
writing, and where appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant, with
a final resolution of the complaint.
      (7)   All written complaints received by the Clerk-Treasurer or his or
her designee, appeals to the Town Council President or his or her designee, and
responses from these two offices will be retained by the town for at least
three years.
(Ord. 2.10-2014, passed 2-10-2014)
CHAPTER 31: BRANCHES OF THE GOVERNMENT
Section
Executive Branch
   
31.01   Execution of executive powers of town
   
31.02   Town Council President
   
31.03   Department of Law
   
31.04   Clerk-Treasurer
Legislative Branch
   
31.15   Legislative authority
   
31.16   Council members
   
31.17   Council meetings
   
31.18   Expulsion of members
   
31.19   Powers of Council concerning ordinances
   
31.20   Reading of lengthy ordinances
   
31.21   Supervision of officers and employees; investigatory powers
   
31.22   Financial management powers
   
31.23   Sale of town-owned real estate
   
31.24   Council’s rules of procedure
Fiscal Branch
   
31.35   Clerk-Treasurer as fiscal officer
   
31.36   Deputy Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.37   Fee for preparation of bid packets
EXECUTIVE BRANCH
§ 31.01 EXECUTION OF EXECUTIVE POWERS OF TOWN.
   All powers and duties of the town that are executive or administrative in
nature shall be exercised or performed by the Town Council President, another
town officer, or a town department.
§ 31.02 TOWN COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council President is the town executive and head of the executive
branch. He or she shall faithfully perform the duties and responsibilities
contained in the statutes of the state.
§ 31.03 DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
   (A)   The Town Council President shall appoint the Town Attorney. The Town
Attorney shall be admitted to the practice of law in the state.
   (B)   The Town Attorney shall do the following:
      (1)   Manage the legal affairs of the town;
      (2)   Prosecute violators of town ordinances;
      (3)   Give legal advice to the officers and agencies of the town;
      (4)   Draft ordinances or other legal papers for the town when requested
by the proper officer;
      (5)   Maintain custody of the records of his or her office and turn them
over to his or her successor in office;
      (6)   Make all title searches and examine all abstracts required in
public work of any kind including opening, widening, or changing a street,
alley, or public place;
      (7)   Promptly commence all proceedings necessary or advisable for the
protection or enforcement of the rights of the town or the public;
      (8)   Use all diligence to collect costs, fees, and recoveries within the
scope of his or her duties;
      (9)   Report, in writing, all matters that he or she considers important
to the Town Council President; and
      (10)   Report, in writing, all judgments for which the town is liable to
the Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 31.04 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Preserve the town’s records in his or her office;
      (2)   Keep an accurate record of the Council’s proceedings;
      (3)   Record the ayes and nays on each vote on an ordinance or resolution
and vote to break a tie vote;
      (4)   Record the ayes and nays on other votes when requested to do so by
two or more members;
      (5)   Record ordinances;
      (6)   Serve as Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council;
      (7)   Maintain all records required by law;
      (8)   Keep the town seal;
      (9)   As soon as a successor is elected and qualified, deliver to the
successor all the records and property of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office;
      (10)   Perform other duties prescribed by law;
      (11)   Administer oaths when necessary in the discharge of the Clerk-
Treasurer’s duties, without charging a fee;
      (12)   Take depositions, without charging a fee; and
      (13)   Take acknowledgment of instruments that are required by statute to
be acknowledged, without charging a fee.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may appoint the number of deputies and employees
authorized by the Town Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees
serve at his or her pleasure.
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
§ 31.15 LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The legislative branch is the Town Council. The Council shall have exclusive
authority to adopt ordinances, approve claims, appropriate monies received by
the town, and perform other necessary and desirable legislative functions.
§ 31.16 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The Town Council shall be composed of five members elected at large.
§ 31.17 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The regularly scheduled meetings of the Town Council shall be at 7:00 p.m.
on the second Monday of the month. Special meetings shall be held on the call
of the Town Council President, or on such other call as may be provided for by
the rules. A majority of all the members shall constitute a quorum. It shall
require a majority vote of all the members to pass an ordinance. Whenever it is
required that any ordinance or resolution shall be passed or other action of
the Council taken by a two-thirds vote, such requirement shall be construed to
mean a two-thirds vote of all the members. All meetings of the Town Council
shall be public.
§ 31.18 EXPULSION OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Town Council may do the following:
      (1)   Expel any member for violation of an official duty;
      (2)   Declare the seat of any member vacant if he or she is unable to
perform the duties of his or her office; and
      (3)   Adopt its own rules to govern proceedings under this subchapter.
   (B)   A two-thirds vote is required to expel a member or vacate his or her
seat.
§ 31.19 POWERS OF COUNCIL CONCERNING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The Town Council may pass ordinances, orders, resolutions, and motions
for the government of the town, the control of the town’s property and
finances, and the appropriation of money.
   (B)   An appropriation ordinance must specify, by items, the amount of each
appropriation and the department for which it is made.
   (C)   A majority vote of the Council is required to pass an ordinance,
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
   (D)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (E)   An ordinance, order, or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by a majority of the Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order, or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
      (1)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation
must, before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-
3-1 unless:
         (a)   It is published under division (E)(2) below; or
         (b)   There is an urgent necessity requiring its immediate
effectiveness, the Town Council President proclaims the urgent necessity, and
copies of the ordinance are posted in three public places.
      (2)   If the town publishes any of its ordinances in book or pamphlet
form, no other publication is required. If an ordinance prescribing a penalty
or forfeiture for a violation is published under this division (E)(2), it takes
effect two weeks after the publication of the book or pamphlet. Publication
under this division (E)(2) is authorized by the Town Council and constitutes
presumptive evidence:
         (a)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
         (b)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
         (c)   The ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded,
and approved.
   (F)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record or a certified copy of the ordinance constitutes presumptive
evidence of its adoption. The record must include the following:
      (1)   The signature of the presiding officer;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
§ 31.20 READING OF LENGTHY ORDINANCES.
   Any ordinance of more than two pages in length introduced to the Council for
passage may be read by title only upon acknowledgment of all voting Council
members that they have read and considered the ordinance in its entirety.
§ 31.21 SUPERVISION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; INVESTIGATORY POWERS.
   (A)   The Town Council may investigate:
      (1)   The departments, officers, and employees of the town;
      (2)   Any charges against a department, officer, or employee of the town;
and
      (3)   The affairs of a person with whom the town has entered, or is about
to enter, into a contract.
   (B)   When conducting an investigation under this section, the Town Council:
      (1)   Is entitled to access to all records pertaining to the
investigation; and
      (2)   May compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of
evidence by subpoena and attachment served and executed in the county.
   (C)   If a person refuses to testify or produce evidence at an investigation
conducted under this section, the Town Council may order its Clerk-Treasurer to
immediately present to the Circuit Court of the county a written report of the
facts relating to the refusal. The Court shall hear all questions relating to
the refusal to testify or produce evidence, and shall also hear any new
evidence not included in the Clerk-Treasurer’s report. If the Court finds that
the testimony or evidence sought should be given or produced, it shall order
the person to testify or produce the evidence, or both.
§ 31.22 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Town Council may, by ordinance, make loans of money and issue
bonds for the purpose of refunding those loans. The loans may be made only for
the purpose of procuring money to be used in the exercise of the powers of the
town or for the payment of town debts.
   (B)   An ordinance adopted under this section:
      (1)   Must include the terms of the bonds to be issued in evidence of the
loan;
      (2)   Must include the time and manner of giving notice of the sale of
the bonds;
      (3)   Must include the manner in which the bonds will be sold; and
      (4)   May authorize a total amount for any issue of bonds.
   (C)   Bonds issued under this section may be sold in parcels of any size and
at any time their proceeds are needed by the town.
   (D)   Bonds issued and sold by the town under this section:
      (1)   Are negotiable with or without registration, as may be provided by
the ordinance authorizing the issue;
      (2)   May bear interest at any rate;
      (3)   May not run longer than 30 years;
      (4)   May contain an option allowing the town to redeem them in whole or
in part at specified times prior to maturity; and
      (5)   May not be sold for less than par value.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Manage and supervise the preparation, advertisement, negotiations,
and sale of bonds under this section, subject to the terms of the ordinance
authorizing the sale;
      (2)   Certify the amount the purchaser is to pay, together with the name
and address of the purchaser;
      (3)   Receive the amount of payment certified;
      (4)   Deliver the bonds to the purchaser;
      (5)   Take a receipt for the securities delivered;
      (6)   Deposit the purchaser’s payment into the town treasury; and
      (7)   Report the proceedings of the sale to the legislative body.
   (F)   The actions of the Clerk-Treasurer under this section are ministerial.
   (G)   (1)   The Town Council may, by ordinance, make loans of money for not
more than five years and issue notes for the purpose of refunding those loans.
The loans may be made only for the purpose of procuring money to be used in the
exercise of the powers of the town, and the total amount of outstanding loans
under this division (G) may not exceed 5% of the town’s total tax levy in the
current year, excluding amounts levied to pay debt service and lease rentals.
Loans under this division (G) shall be made in the same manner as loans under
the Indiana Code except that:
         (a)   The ordinance authorizing the loans must pledge to their payment
a sufficient amount of tax revenues over the ensuing five years to provide for
refunding the loans; and
         (b)   The loans must be evidenced by notes of the town in terms
designating the nature of the consideration, the time and place payable, and
the revenues out of which they will be payable. Notes issued under this
division (G)(1) are not bonded indebtedness for purposes of I.C. 6-1.1-18.5.
      (2)   The Town Council may, by ordinance, make temporary loans in
anticipation of current revenues of the town that have been levied and are
being collected for the fiscal year in which the loans are made. Loans under
division (G)(1) above shall be made in the same manner as loans made under the
Indiana Code except that:
         (a)   The ordinance authorizing the loans must appropriate and pledge
to their payment a sufficient amount of the revenues in anticipation of which
they are issued and out of which they are payable; and
         (b)   The loans must be evidenced by time warrants of the town in
terms designating the nature of the consideration, the time and place payable,
and the revenues in anticipation of which they are issued and out of which they
are payable.
      (3)   An action to contest the validity of a loan made under this
division (G) must be brought within 15 days from the day on which the ordinance
is adopted.
§ 31.23 SALE OF TOWN-OWNED REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   Whenever it is determined by the Town Council that it is in the best
interests of the town to sell real estate owned by the town and the procedure
for sale of such real estate is not otherwise mandated by statute, the
procedures of this section will be followed in consummating such sale.
      (1)   Such real estate will be appraised by two disinterested freeholders
of the town selected by the Town Council President.
      (2)   After receipt of the appraisal of said freeholders, notice of the
sale of the real estate shall be published once in two newspapers of general
circulation in the town, giving the time, terms, and place of such sale. The
sale date shall be at least ten days after the publication in the newspapers.
      (3)   At the time and place prescribed in the notice, the Town Council
will receive bids for the purchase of the property. The Town Council will have
the right to reject any bids submitted and may continue to receive bids from
time to time after the sale date as prescribed above until such time as the
Town Council is satisfied that a fair and equitable bid has been received for
the property.
      (4)   In no event will the town sell such real estate at less than the
full appraised value thereof as appraised by two disinterested freeholders.
      (5)   In the event a bid is received and accepted by the town, the town
shall convey title in the name of the town by warranty deed or such other
conveyances, and the Town Council President is authorized to assign on behalf
of the town with the attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer and the affixing of the
seal of the town on the conveyance.
   (B)   In the event the appraised value of the real estate to be sold is less
than $2,000, then no publication or notice will be required and the Town
Council is authorized and directed to sell the real estate without the
requirement of publication.
   (C)   The town is authorized to employ a broker for the sale of any real
estate of the town and to negotiate for the payment of the broker from the
proceeds of any such sale.
§ 31.24 COUNCIL’S RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Regular meeting. The Council shall hold a regular meeting on the
second Monday of each month. The meeting shall be held at the Town Building and
shall begin at 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   Special meetings. The Town Council President or any three members of
the Council may at any time call a special Council meeting. The notice of a
special Council meeting shall be delivered to the Town Council President and
each Council member or left at his or her usual dwelling place and place of
business at least six hours before the meeting. Special meetings may be held at
any time when the Town Council President and all members of the Council are
present. Only those items of business specified in the notice may be transacted
at a special meeting, unless all members are present or have signed a written
waiver of notice. Any news media which have requested notice of meetings shall
be given notice of special meetings in the same manner as the members of the
Council.
   (C)   Agenda. The Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare the proposed agenda for the
regular meeting. A request to have an item of business placed on the proposed
agenda must be received at least seven calendar days before the regular
meeting. Any Council member may, by a timely request, have an item placed on
the proposed agenda. The proposed agenda shall include, for each item of
business placed on it, as much background information on the subject as is
available and feasible to reproduce. A copy of all proposed ordinances shall be
attached to the proposed agenda. Each Council member shall receive a copy of
the proposed agenda before the meeting and it shall be available for public
inspection or distribution at least 48 hours prior to the regular meeting. The
Council may, by majority vote, add an item that is not on the proposed agenda.
   (D)   Public request to address the Council.
      (1)   Any individual or group who wishes to address the Council shall
make a request to be on the proposed agenda to the Clerk-Treasurer. However,
the Council shall determine at the meeting, by majority vote, whether it will
hear the individual or group. Prior to his, her, or their speaking, the
presiding officer of the meeting shall advise the individual or individuals
allowed to speak as to the length of time he, she, or they will be given to
address the Council.
      (2)   Before any person will be allowed to speak to the Council, he or
she must be recognized by the presiding officer and identify himself or herself
by name and address; at that time, he or she shall come forward before the
Council and speak into a microphone or at a designated place. Any person
failing to comply with these rules may be ruled out of order by the presiding
officer and, at that time, may be removed from the Council room by the Town
Marshal at the instruction of the Council.
   (E)   Order of business.
      (1)   Items shall be placed on the proposed agenda according to the order
of business. The order of business for each regular meeting shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Call to order;
         (b)   Roll call;
         (c)   Minutes;
         (d)   Petitions or comments by those citizens present;
         (e)   Reports from committees and officers;
         (f)   Unfinished business;
         (g)   New business;
         (h)   Claims;
         (i)   Miscellaneous business - limit to two minutes per speaker; and
         (j)   Adjournment.
      (2)   By motion and majority vote of the Council, items may be considered
out of order.
      (3)   The Council President may:
         (a)   Rule motions in or out of order, including any motion patently
offered for obstructive or dilatory purposes;
         (b)   Determine whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards
of courtesy in his or her remarks, and to entertain and rule on objections from
other members on this ground;
         (c)   Entertain and answer questions of parliamentary law or
procedure;
         (d)   Call a brief recess at any time; and
         (e)   Adjourn in an emergency.
   (F)   Office of Council President. At the organizational meeting, the
Council shall elect from among its members a President. A Council member who
serves as President shall be entitled to vote on all matters and shall be
considered a Council member for all purposes, including the determination of
whether a quorum is present.
   (G)   Action by the Council. The Council shall proceed by motion. Any member
may make a motion.
   (H)   One motion at a time. A member may make only one motion at a time.
   (I)   Substantive motion. A substantive motion is out of order while another
substantive motion is pending.
   (J)   Adoption by majority vote. A majority of all the members-elect of the
Council shall constitute a quorum. It shall require a majority vote of all the
members-elect of the Council to pass an ordinance or to take any other official
action on behalf of the Council. Any action of the Council shall not be
official unless a quorum is present. Whenever it is required by law that any
ordinance, resolution, or other action by the Council shall require a two-
thirds vote before approval is granted, two-thirds of all members-elect of the
Council shall have to vote for approval.
   (K)   Debate. The presiding officer shall state the motion and then open the
floor to debate on it. The presiding officer shall preside over the debate
according to the following general principles:
      (1)   The introducer (the member who makes the motion) is entitled to
speak first;
      (2)   A member who has not spoken on the issue shall be recognized before
someone who has already spoken; and
      (3)   To the extent possible, the debate shall alternate between
opponents and proponents of the measure.
   (L)   Procedural motions. In addition to substantive proposals, the
following procedural motions, and no others, shall be in order. Unless
otherwise noted, each motion is debatable, may be amended, and requires a
majority vote for adoption. In order of priority (if applicable), the
procedural motions are:
      (1)   To adjourn. The motion may be made only at the conclusion of action
on a pending matter and it may not interrupt deliberation of a pending matter;
      (2)   To take a recess;
      (3)   Call to follow the agenda. The motion must be made at the first
reasonable opportunity or it is waived;
      (4)   To suspend the rules. The motion requires a vote equal to the
number required for a quorum;
      (5)   To divide a complex motion and consider it by paragraph;
      (6)   To defer consideration. A substantive motion whose consideration
has been deferred expires 100 days thereafter unless a motion to revive
consideration is adopted;
      (7)   Call of the previous question. The motion is not in order until
there have been at least 20 minutes of debate and every member has had an
opportunity to speak once;
      (8)   To postpone to a certain time or day;
      (9)   To refer to a committee. Sixty days after a motion has been
referred to a committee, the introducer may compel consideration of the measure
by the entire Council, whether or not the committee has reported the matter to
the Council;
      (10)   To amend. An amendment to a point must be pertinent to the subject
matter of the motion, but it may achieve the opposite of the intent of the
motion. A motion may be amended, and that amendment may be amended, but no
further amendments may be made. Any amendment to a proposed ordinance shall be
reduced to writing on the call of any member or the Town Council President;
      (11)   To revive consideration. The motion is in order any time within
100 days after the day of a vote to defer consideration. A substantive motion
on which consideration has been deferred expires 100 days after the deferral
unless a motion to revive consideration is adopted;
      (12)   To reconsider. This motion must be made by a member who voted with
the prevailing side, and only at the meeting during which the original vote was
taken. The motion cannot interrupt deliberation on a pending matter, but is in
order at any time before actual adjournment;
      (13)   To rescind or repeal;
      (14)   To ratify; and
      (15)   To prevent reconsideration for six months. The motion shall be in
order immediately following the defeat of a substantive motion and at no other
time. The motion requires a vote equal to the number required for a quorum for
adoption and is valid for six months or until the next regular election of
Council members, whichever occurs first.
   (M)   Renewal of motion. A motion that is defeated may be renewed at any
later meeting unless a motion to prevent reconsideration has been adopted.
   (N)   Withdrawal of motion. A motion may be withdrawn by the introducer at
any time before a vote.
   (O)   Duty to vote. Every member must vote aye, nay, or abstain unless
excused by the remaining members according to law. A member who wishes to be
excused from voting shall so inform the presiding officer, who shall take a
vote of the remaining members. No member shall be excused from voting except on
matters involving the consideration of his or her own financial interest or
official conduct.
   (P)   Introduction of ordinances. A proposed ordinance shall be deemed to be
introduced at the first meeting at which it is actually considered by the
Council. The ordinance shall be read at the meeting unless it has been
previously passed among the Council members, a member of the Council requests
that the ordinance not be read in its entirety, and the remainder of the
Council agrees that it is familiar with the contents of the ordinance. If a
member of the Council objects because the ordinance is not being read, then the
Council may, upon motion and a majority vote, formally waive the reading of the
ordinance before it.
   (Q)   Adoption of ordinances. An affirmative vote equal to a majority of all
the members of the Council not excused from voting on the question in issue
(including the Clerk-Treasurer’s vote in the case of an equal division) shall
be required to adopt an ordinance or to take any action that has the effect of
an ordinance. No ordinance shall be passed on the date which it is first read
or introduced, and final action shall not be taken on any ordinance until the
second meeting at which it is considered. Final action may be taken on an
ordinance on the date which it is first introduced only by unanimous vote of
the Council. Any other action taken with regard to the passage or operation of
any ordinance shall be done in compliance with statutory law.
   (R)   Adoption of the budget ordinance. During the period beginning with the
submission of the budget to the Council and ending with the adoption of the
budget ordinance, the Council may hold any special meetings that may be
necessary to complete its work on the budget ordinance. Any provisions of law
concerning the call of special meetings do not apply during that period so long
as each member of the Council has actual notice of each special meeting called
for the purpose of considering the budget, and no business other than
consideration of the budget is taken up.
   (S)   Executive sessions. The Council may hold executive sessions as
provided by law for legal, personnel, or similar matters. The Council shall
commence an executive session by a majority vote to do so, after reading of the
agenda, and terminate it in the same manner.
   (T)   Quorum. A majority of the actual membership of the Council, excluding
vacant seats, shall constitute a quorum. A member who has withdrawn from a
meeting, without being excused by majority vote of the remaining members
present, shall be counted as present for purposes of determining whether a
quorum is present.
   (U)   Public hearings. Public hearings required by law, or deemed advisable
by the Council, shall be organized by a special order, adopted by a majority
vote that sets forth the subject, date, place, and time of the hearing as well
as any rules regarding the length of time of each speaker and so forth. At the
appointed time, the Town Council President, or his or her designee, shall call
the hearing to order and then preside over it. When the allotted time expires
or when anyone who wishes to speak has done so, the presiding officer shall
declare the hearing ended.
   (V)   Quorum at public hearings. A quorum of Council shall be required at
all public hearings required by state and federal law.
   (W)   Committees. At its organizational meetings or first regular meeting
hereafter, the Council shall choose a nominating committee to be composed of
three members. The members of this committee shall continue to serve through
the term that they were elected to the Council until removed from the committee
by a majority vote of the entire Council. The purpose of this committee is to
submit names for the consideration of the Council as a whole when various
committees are established by the Council from time to time. The procedure for
submission of names is to be determined by the committee. Once the Council has
decided that it is necessary to establish certain committees, the nominating
committee shall submit the names of persons to serve on that committee to the
Council within 30 days. All nominations and recommendations of the nominating
committee are reviewable by the entire Council and may be changed by a majority
vote of the Council. Any person who is a resident of the town may be selected
by the nominating committee if the committee deems that person qualified. Any
resident of the town selected by the nominating committee must consent to that
selection before approval by the Council. However, each committee shall have at
least one Council member on it who shall serve as the head of the committee.
All committees shall automatically terminate at the end of the year.
   (X)   Repealer. The provisions of these rules of procedure take precedence
over all prior ordinances and those parts of prior ordinances in conflict with
the provisions of these rules, and such ordinances or parts of ordinances are
hereby repealed.
   (Y)   Reference to Robert’s Rules of Order. To the extent not provided for
in these rules, and to the extent it does not conflict with the spirit of these
rules and the laws of the state, the Council shall refer to Robert’s Rules of
Order, Revised, for unresolved procedural questions.
(Amended 4-11-2016)
FISCAL BRANCH
§ 31.35 CLERK-TREASURER AS FISCAL OFFICER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is the fiscal officer of the town and the head of the
fiscal branch. He or she shall perform the duties assigned by I.C. 36-5, and
such other duties as the Town Council may, by ordinance, require.
§ 31.36 DEPUTY CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized, pursuant to I.C. 36-5, to appoint
one Deputy Clerk-Treasurer to be paid solely from funds appropriated for the
Office of Clerk-Treasurer. Such Deputy shall work under the exclusive direction
of the Clerk-Treasurer, and shall serve at the pleasure of the Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 31.37 FEE FOR PREPARATION OF BID PACKETS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to assess a non-refundable
fee in an amount to be determined, but in no event to exceed $100, to any
person or entity requesting a bid packet preliminary to submission of a bid on
any advertising bid letting of the town.
   (B)   The amount of the non-refundable fee shall be determined prior to the
advertisement for bids and made part of the bid specifications based upon the
actual cost of reproduction and assembly of the bid packet, subject to the
maximum limitations set out in division (A) above. Such calculations shall be
made by the Clerk-Treasurer in consultation with the Town Engineer or such
department heads as may be involved in the development of the bid
specifications. The non-refundable fee shall be set out and clearly stated in
the advertisement for bids.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain appropriate books and records of
the fees charged and the receipts thereto, and the fees so collected shall be
deposited in the General Fund.
CHAPTER 32: TOWN ORGANIZATION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Organization of town government
   
32.02   Elective officers; appointed officials
   
32.03   Eligibility for office
   
32.04   Notice; oath; bond
   
32.05   Filling vacancies in office
Downtown Economic Development Authority;
Emergency-Disaster Department
   
32.20   Downtown Economic Development Authority
   
32.21   Emergency-Disaster Department
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 ORGANIZATION OF TOWN GOVERNMENT.
   The government of the town shall consist of branches, those being the
following: the executive branch (Town Council President); the legislative
branch (Town Council); and the fiscal branch (Clerk- Treasurer).
Statutory reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer can vote on Council to break a tie vote, see I.C. 36-5-2-8
   Clerk-Treasurer fiscal officer, see I.C. 36-5-6-2
   Executive is Council President, see I.C. 36-5-2-2
§ 32.02 ELECTIVE OFFICERS; APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The elective officers of the town, elected in accordance with the
provisions of the state election laws, shall be:
      (1)   The Town Council members; and
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Council President shall appoint as necessary:
      (1)   A Town Civil Engineer;
      (2)   A Town Attorney;
      (3)   A Town Marshal; and/or
      (4)   Other officers, employees, boards, and commissions required by
statute.
§ 32.03 ELIGIBILITY FOR OFFICE.
   No person shall be eligible for any town office unless he or she shall have
been a resident of the town for at least one year immediately preceding
election. Should any town officer cease to be a resident of the town during his
or her term of office, such office shall at once become vacant.
Statutory reference:
   Residency requirements for Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-4-10-3
   Residency requirements for Council, see I.C. 36-4-6-2
   Residency requirements for Town Council President, see I.C. 36-4-5-2
§ 32.04 NOTICE; OATH; BOND.
   (A)   (1)   Every officer and every deputy, before entering on the officer’s
or deputy’s official duties, shall take an oath to support the Constitution of
the United States, the Constitution of the state, and that the officer or
deputy will faithfully discharge the duties of such office.
      (2)   An attorney and a deputy attorney shall take the oath required
under division (A)(1) above before taking office.
   (B)   Every town officer, except the members of the Town Council, shall
likewise execute a bond to the approval of the President, payable to the town,
in accordance with the following:
 
Official        Mandatory (M) or Approval
                Optional (O)
Clerk-Treasurer M                Town Council President
Council         O                Council
 
      (1)   The amount of the bond of the Clerk-Treasurer will be an amount
equal to $15,000 for each $1,000,000 in receipts in the office during the last
complete fiscal year, with a minimum amount of $15,000 and a maximum amount of
$300,000. All other bond amounts will be set by the Town Council; however, no
bond may be less than $8,500. Approval means that the approving official
certifies that the amount of bond is correct according to the law or the
applicable ordinance.
      (2)   The bond forms are to be prescribed by the State Department of
Insurance and filed with the County Recorder within ten days after their
approval. I.C. 5-4-1-1 et seq. also allows, but does not mandate, a town to
purchase “blanket bonds” covering remaining officials and employees.
   (C)   Any person who shall not file his or her oath, or oath and bond as the
case may be, with the proper officer within ten days after the beginning of the
term for which he or she shall have been elected or appointed shall be deemed
to have refused to serve, and the office shall be deemed to be vacant.
Statutory reference:
   Individual or blanket bonds for employees, see I.C. 5-4-1-18
§ 32.05 FILLING VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   (A)   Filling town offices by caucus. A vacancy in a town office that was
last held by a person elected or selected as a candidate of a major political
party of the state shall be filled by a caucus under I.C. 3-13-11.
(I.C. 3-13-8-1)
   (B)   Vacancy by incumbent during election contest, incumbent’s right to
hold over. If, pending the outcome of an election contest, the incumbent
vacates the office after the expiration of the incumbent’s term, the vacancy
shall be filled as are other vacancies under I.C. 3-13-8 until the election is
decided or the office is otherwise filled. This provision does not affect the
incumbent’s right to hold over as provided in Indiana Constitution Art. 15, §
3.
(I.C. 3-13-8-11)
   (C)   Person filling vacancy; bond; oath; rights and duties. A person
filling a vacancy under this section must give the same bond, take the same
oath, and receive the same rights and duties as the official who vacated the
office.
(I.C. 3-13-8-12)
   (D)   Person filling vacancy; term. A person selected to fill a vacant
office under this section holds the office for the remainder of the term.
(I.C. 3-13-8-13)
DOWNTOWN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY; EMERGENCY-DISASTER DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 DOWNTOWN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The town hereby creates the Downtown Economic Development Authority.
   (B)   Members shall be appointed by the Council President.
   (C)   The powers of the Downtown Economic Development Authority are as set
forth by the Council.
§ 32.21 EMERGENCY-DISASTER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is established within the town an organization for civil
defense. This organization will be known as the Emergency-Disaster Department,
in conjunction with the state’s Civil Defense Department.
      (1)   A Director/Coordinator will be appointed for the organization to
serve during the pleasure of Town Council.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer will be responsible for the receipt and
disbursement of all civil defense funds, where funds are provided for civil
defense purposes.
   (B)   The town hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS)
as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents.
Statutory reference:
   Civil Defense and Disaster Law, see I.C. 10-14-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Powers and duties
   
33.02   Special powers
   
33.03   Direction of traffic
   
33.04   Records of traffic violations
   
33.05   Members of the police force; duties; qualifications
   
33.06   Appointments, demotions
   
33.07   Reserve police force
Benefits and Regulations
   
33.20   Jury duty leave for Police Department
   
33.21   Court time for Police Department
   
33.22   Employee insurance
   
33.23   Family and medical leave
   
33.24   Worker’s compensation
   
33.25   Military leave
   
33.26   Benefits continuation (COBRA)
   
33.27   Deferred compensation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The officers and members of the police force of the town possess all
the common-law and statutory powers of constables, except in relation to the
service of civil process. Any warrant of search or arrest, issued by any judge,
may be executed in any part thereof by any member of the police force, subject
to the laws governing arrest and bail.
   (B)   The members of the police force may serve process within the town.
They shall arrest, without process, all persons who within view violate the
statutes of the state. The members of the police force shall take the violators
before the court having jurisdiction of the offense and retain them in custody
until the cause of such arrest has been investigated. The members of the police
force shall suppress all breaches of the peace within their knowledge, and may
call to their aid the power of the town, and pursue and commit to jail persons
guilty of violation of the statutes of this state.
   (C)   They shall serve all process issued by the Town Council.
   (D)   Police officers shall enforce town ordinances in accordance with I.C.
36-1-6.
(I.C. 36-8-3-6)
§ 33.02 SPECIAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall, within the town, preserve peace; prevent
offenses; detect and arrest criminals; suppress riots, mobs, and insurrections;
disperse unlawful and dangerous assemblages, and assemblages which obstruct the
free passage of public streets, sidewalks, parks, and places; protect the
rights of persons and property; guard the public health; preserve order at
elections and public meetings; direct the movement of vehicles in public ways
or public places; remove all nuisances in public parks or public ways; provide
proper police assistance at fires; assist, advise, and protect strangers and
travelers in public ways or at transportation facilities; carefully observe and
inspect all places of business under license, or required to have the same, and
enforce and prevent the violation of all ordinances and laws in force in the
town.
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall possess the power of supervision and inspection
over all pawnbrokers, vendors, junk shop keepers, cartmen, expressmen, dealers
in secondhand merchandise, intelligence offices, architectural salvage material
dealers (as defined in I.C. 24-4-16-3), and auctions. Any member of the force
may be authorized by the Town Marshal in writing to exercise the same powers.
(I.C. 36-8-3-10)
§ 33.03 DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   Officers of the Police Department, or such officers as are assigned by the
Town Marshal, are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand, or signal in
conformance with the traffic code and state law; provided that, in the event of
a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic code or state law.
§ 33.04 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of the
traffic ordinances of the town and of the state vehicle laws of which any
person has been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all
such alleged offenses. Such record shall be so maintained as to show all types
of violations and the total of each. The record shall accumulate during at
least a five-year period and, from that time, the record shall be maintained
complete for at least the most recent five-year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall be
serially numbered. For each month and year, a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms.
   (C)   All such records and reports shall be public records.
§ 33.05 MEMBERS OF THE POLICE FORCE; DUTIES; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Town Council classifies by rank the members of the Town Police
Department as:
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall be the highest rank of any member of the Police
Department appointed by the Town Council to serve at the pleasure of the Town
Council, whose function it will be to direct, supervise, and control the
activities of the Police Department; and
   (B)   The Deputy Town Marshal shall be the second highest ranking member of
the Police Department and shall be appointed by the Town Marshal with the
approval of the Council. The function of the Deputy Town Marshal will be to
direct the activities of the police force in the absence of the Chief and to
perform such other duties as may from time to time be defined by the rules and
regulations of the Town Police Department or pursuant to the direction of the
Town Marshal.
§ 33.06 APPOINTMENTS, DEMOTIONS.
   The appointments to offices set forth in this chapter may be made by the
Town Marshal for his or her Department with the approval of the Council.
However, any demotion from a rank may be made by the Town Marshal for the
Police Department without the approval of the Council.
§ 33.07 RESERVE POLICE FORCE.
   (A)   There is created the Reserve Police Department.
   (B)   Upon recommendation of the Council, the maximum number of authorized
reserve police officers is hereby established to be at the Town Council’s
discretion.
   (C)   The Town Marshal is designated to establish rules directing and
governing the activities of all police reserves, the rules to be in writing and
maintained on file with the public records of the town.
   (D)   In all other respects, the operation, appointment, compensation, and
training shall be governed by the laws of the state as from time to time
amended.
   (E)   There may be appropriated by the Town Council such funds as may be
allowed by the laws of the state for use for, or on behalf of, the reserve
police officers.
Statutory reference:
   Police reserves, see I.C. 36-8-3-20
BENEFITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 33.20 JURY DUTY LEAVE FOR POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The town encourages employees to fulfill their civic responsibilities
by serving jury duty when summoned. The pay of any employee who has received a
subpoena for jury duty or as a witness will continue at the regular rate. All
jury duty pay received by the employee shall be returned to the town to be
credited against regular salary. Payment by the court to the employee for
travel expense at the prevailing rate may be retained by the employee.
   (B)   Employees must show the jury duty summons to the department head or
designated supervisor as soon as possible so the town may make arrangements to
accommodate the employee’s absence. The employee is expected to report for work
whenever the court schedule permits. Either the town or the employee may
request an excuse from jury duty if, in the employer’s judgment, the employee’s
absence would create serious operational difficulties.
   (C)   If an employee is released from jury duty with more than half of his
or her regularly scheduled shift remaining, the employee is expected to report
to work.
   (D)   The town will continue to provide and accrue all regular benefits for
the full term of the jury duty absence. Such time spent on jury duty shall be
counted as hours worked in calculating overtime.
§ 33.21 COURT TIME FOR POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   A police officer who is required to be in court during his or her off-duty
time shall receive either pay or compensation time off for each court
appearance hour with a two-hour minimum. This pertains only to court
appearances related to the activities of the Police Department.
§ 33.22 EMPLOYEE INSURANCE.
   The town offers life and medical insurance programs for employees in a full-
time position. Each employee shall receive insurance handbooks describing all
benefits upon completion of his or her orientation interview. Group insurance
benefits will continue while an employee is on disability leave; however, when
in a non-pay status, employees will be responsible for the timely payment of
those insurance premiums that are normally deducted from gross pay. Specific
details regarding eligibility and coverage are available in the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office.
§ 33.23 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE.
   (A)   The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) of 1993, being 29 U.S.C. §§
2601 et seq., provides eligible employees with up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave
for the following:
      (1)   The employee’s own serious illness;
      (2)   The birth or adoption of a child;
      (3)   The care of a seriously ill child, spouse, or parent; or
      (4)   A qualifying exigency for military family leave. A QUALIFYING
EXIGENCY includes:
         (a)   SHORT-NOTICE DEPLOYMENT, defined as a call/order to active duty
seven days prior to the date of deployment (limited to seven calendar days of
leave beginning the date the military member is notified of deployment);
         (b)   Military events and activities related to call to active duty;
         (c)   Childcare and school activities;
         (d)   Make or update financial and legal arrangements;
         (e)   Counseling;
         (f)   Rest and recuperation (limited to five days per leave, up to 12
weeks in a 12-month period, to spend with military member on short-term leave);
         (g)   POST-DEPLOYMENT ACTIVITIES, defined as up to 90 days following
termination of active duty status; and
         (h)   Additional activities (must be agreed to by both employer and
employee).
            1.   Where applicable, there must be a relationship between the
reason(s) for leave and the active duty or call to active duty.
            2.   Further details regarding leave for a qualifying exigency,
including certification requirements can be obtained from the Human Resources
Department.
   (B)   The FMLA also provides up to 26 weeks of unpaid leave to eligible
employees to care for a seriously injured or ill covered service member. A
COVERED SERVICE MEMBER is a member of the Armed Forces, including a member of
the National Guard or Reserves, who is undergoing medical treatment,
recuperation, or therapy, is otherwise in outpatient status, or is otherwise on
the temporary disability retired list, for a serious injury or illness.
Veterans who are undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy for a
serious injury or illness that occurred during the five years preceding the
date of treatment are also covered service members. A serious injury or illness
is limited to an injury or illness incurred by the member in the line of duty
on active duty in the Armed Forces (or existed before the beginning of the
member’s active duty and was aggravated by service in the line of duty on
active duty in the Armed Forces) that may render the member medically unfit to
perform the duties of the member’s office, grade, rank, or rating. In the case
of a veteran of the Armed Forces, a serious injury or illness means a
qualifying injury or illness that was incurred by the member in the line of
duty on active duty in the Armed Forces (or existed before the beginning of the
member’s active duty and was aggravated by service in the line of duty on
active duty in the Armed Forces) and that manifested itself before or after the
member became a veteran. Other types of FMLA leave are included with this type
of leave totaling 26 weeks. A husband and wife who both work for the town may
take leave to care for a seriously injured or ill service member, but may only
take a combined total of 26 weeks of leave. Service member FMLA runs concurrent
with other leave entitlements provided under federal, state, and local law,
such as state military family leave.
   (C)   An employee may request to use his or her accrued banked compensatory
time for an FMLA reason. If the hours are used, they will not be counted
against the employee’s FMLA leave entitlement. If an employee has elected
benefits through the town’s sponsored short-term disability carrier, the
employee may determine how and when he or she wishes to have his or her accrued
sick, vacation, and floating holidays paid as to not hinder the payment of his
or her short-term disability benefits. However, if the employee is not enrolled
in the town’s sponsored short-term disability benefits, the town requires that
accrued sick, vacation, and floating holidays be used concurrently with any
FMLA leave.
   (D)   For an employee to be eligible for family and medical leave, he or she
must have been employed by the town for a total of 12 months and worked 1,250
hours within the previous 12-month period.
   (E)   In addition, any employee who completes a period of leave will be
returned either to the same position the employee was in prior to the leave, or
to a position equivalent in pay, benefits, and other terms and conditions of
employment.
   (F)   For purposes of calculating employee entitlement for subsequent FMLA
leaves, the “12-month period” is measured from the date when the employee’s
previous FMLA leave began. For example, under this method an employee would be
entitled to 12 weeks of leave during the year beginning on the first date FMLA
is taken (e.g., March 7, 2000); the next 12-month period would begin the first
time leave is taken after completion of the 12-month period ending (e.g., March
6, 2001).
   (G)   When an employee plans to take family or medical leave under the Act,
the employee is required to give the town 30 days’ written notice or, if this
is not possible, as much notice as is practical.
   (H)   An employee undergoing planned treatment is required to make a
reasonable effort to schedule the treatment to minimize disruptions to town
operations.
   (I)   The town may require an employee to report periodically during the
leave period on the employee’s leave status and the employee’s intention to
return to work. The employer may consider an employee’s failure to report to
work at the end of the leave period as an employee resignation. (See division
(N) below concerning additional leave).
   (J)   Upon a request for leave, the town will provide the employee with a
medical certification form to be completed by the proper healthcare provider.
The town reserves the right to require a second medical opinion from an
independent medical provider. The town will pay for the second opinion and will
designate a provider who is not an employee of the town. If the two opinions
conflict, the town will pay for a third opinion. The opinion of the third
provider is final and binding on both the town and the employee.
   (K)   If leave was due to an employee’s own serious health condition, prior
to returning to scheduled work the employee must provide a physician’s fitness-
for-duty certification indicating whether the employee may return to work with
or without restrictions.
   (L)   The provisions of this policy and any leave taken pursuant to this
policy shall be governed by the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, as
amended. All requests for leave of absence must be submitted in writing to the
department head on forms provided by the Human Resources office.
   (M)   Accruals for benefit calculations, such as vacation, floating holiday,
sick leave, or holiday benefits, will not be affected by taking family and
medical leave.
   (N)   (1)   If an employee is unable to return to work after completing 12
weeks, or 26 weeks when leave is to care for an injured or ill service member,
of approved FMLA leave, he or she must notify the town in writing and provide
medical certification to support his or her request for additional leave at
least five days prior to the date the employee is scheduled to report to work.
The request for additional leave time and the medical certification form will
be presented to the Board of Works. (The employee will need to provide an
authorization for release of information form to Human Resources prior to any
medical information being released to the Board of Works.) If the proper
medical certification has been submitted and the employee has remaining sick
time, the Board of Works shall grant the leave until such accrued time has been
exhausted, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-5-2.
      (2)   If an employee has exhausted all of his or her accrued sick and/or
benefit time prior to or after completing the 12/26 weeks of approved leave and
needs additional leave time, the leave must be approved by the Board of Works
after a hearing conducted under I.C. 36-8-8-12.7. The leave shall continue
until disability benefits are paid. However, the leave may not continue for
more than six months.
      (3)   While on leave, the employee must submit a physician/practitioner
certification every 30 days as recertification of the conditions for which the
leave was granted.
      (4)   If such leave is approved:
         (a)   Holiday pay and the accrual of sick, vacation, and floating
holiday benefit time will cease. Upon return from approved leave, the employee
will receive his or her allotted vacation time as outlined by the town.
Floating holidays will be received if the floating holiday(s) (as designated by
the Board of Works) have not already passed within the current calendar year.
         (b)   The employee’s town paid life insurance policy will terminate on
the last day of the month that his or her 12 weeks of approved leave ended. The
employee will be offered a conversion policy that must be paid in full by the
employee.
         (c)   The employee may continue his or her medical, dental, and/or
vision insurance by paying the active employee premium. Premium payments will
continue to be payroll deducted if the employee has remaining benefit time to
be paid out to them. Otherwise, premium payments are due the first of every
month for coverage for the following month (i.e., for coverage for the month of
February, payment must be made by January 1) Payment must be submitted by check
or money order and made payable to the town. If an employee fails to provide
payment within 30 days of the due date his or her coverage will be cancelled,
provided the town notifies him or her in writing at least 15 days before the
date the employee’s coverage will lapse. Please see §
33.26 regarding insurance continuation benefits.
         (d)   No PERF.
§ 33.24 WORKER’S COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The town provides a comprehensive worker’s compensation insurance
program at no cost to employees. This program covers any injury or illness
sustained in the course of employment that requires medical, surgical, or
hospital treatment. Subject to applicable legal requirements, worker’s
compensation insurance provides benefits after a short waiting period. The town
shall pay the employee’s regular salary for the first five work days when such
employee is absent due to a worker’s compensation injury. If absent for six or
more work days, a portion of the regular salary may be provided via worker’s
compensation insurance. Insurance reimbursement is made directly to the
employee for the first five work days if an employee is absent for 21 work
days. Employees shall reimburse the town the full amount of any worker’s
compensation received for the first five work days. While on worker’s
compensation disability, employee benefits shall accrue.
   (B)   An employee using worker’s compensatory time to attend an initial/
follow-up appointment will be paid for this time at normal rate of pay.
Worker’s compensation time is not considered as hours worked for purposes of
calculating overtime compensation. The employee will be paid for this time in
the form of monetary compensation. These hours may not be banked as
compensatory time.
   (C)   Any employee who sustains a work-related injury or illness should
inform the department head or supervisor immediately. No matter how minor an
on-the-job injury may appear, it is important that it be reported immediately.
This will enable an eligible employee to qualify for coverage as quickly as
possible.
   (D)   Neither the town nor the insurance carrier will be liable for the
payment of worker’s compensation benefits for off-duty injuries or injuries
that occur during an employee’s voluntary participation in any off-duty
recreational, social, or athletic activity sponsored by the town.
§ 33.25 MILITARY LEAVE.
   (A)   The town encourages employees to serve their country by participating
in the uniformed services. If a person is called upon to perform military
service, whether it involves active duty or annual training requirements for
the National Guard or U.S. Military Reserves, he or she may be entitled to
reinstatement/reemployment and other rights under the Uniformed Services
Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (“USERRA”), being 38 U.S.C. §§
4301 et seq. In order to qualify for benefits under USERRA, the employee’s
separation from military service must be under honorable conditions and it must
meet all of the other requirements of the law.
   (B)   In order to qualify for town military benefits, the employee’s
military service must be in compliance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Eligibility. This policy applies to any person who must be absent
from employment to perform a duty, either voluntary or involuntary, in the
uniformed services. To qualify under the town’s military leave policy, an
employee requesting leave must provide advance written notice to his or her
elected official/department head as soon as possible, and furnish a copy of his
or her military orders that identifies the time period for the leave as
specifically as possible.
      (2)   Reinstatement. Upon returning from a military leave lasting fewer
than 31 days, in order to be eligible for USERRA and town military benefits, an
employee must report to work at the beginning of the first full regularly
scheduled work day following the completion of the military service.
      (3)   Reemployment. For military leave lasting more than 30 days, but
less than 181 days, in order to be eligible for USERRA and town military
benefits, an employee must submit an application for reemployment before the
expiration of 14 days after the completion of the military service. An employee
on a military leave lasting longer than 181 days must submit an application for
reemployment before the expiration of 90 days after the completion of the
service.
      (4)   Compensation. Employees are entitled to their town pay and military
pay for up to 15 days per year.
      (5)   State Military Family Leave.
         (a)   An employee who has been employed with the town for at least 12
months and has worked at least 1,500 hours during the 12-month period
immediately preceding the day the leave begins; and is the spouse, parent,
grandparent, or sibling of a person who is ordered to active duty, is entitled
to an unpaid leave of absence not to exceed a total of ten working days. An
employee may take this leave of absence during one or more of the following
periods:
            1.   During the 30 days before active duty orders are in effect;
            2.   During a period in which the person ordered to active duty is
on leave while active duty orders are in effect; and
            3.   During the 30 days after the active duty orders are
terminated.
         (b)   An employee wanting to take military family leave shall provide
written notice, including a copy of the active duty orders if available. The
employee is required to give the town 30 days’ written notice before the date
on which the employee intends to begin the leave, unless the active duty orders
are issued less than 30 days before the date the requested leave is to begin.
         (c)   The town requires that accrued vacation, compensatory time, and/
or floating holidays be paid and taken concurrently with the leave. The town
requires an employee to first use any banked compensatory time then use
vacation and/or floating holiday time during the approved leave. Accrued sick
time cannot be used during the leave.
      (6)   Questions. If an employee has any questions regarding his or her
rights surrounding military leave, he or she should contact the Human Resources
Director.
§ 33.26 BENEFITS CONTINUATION (COBRA).
   (A)   The Federal Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA),
being 29 U.S.C. §§ 1161 et seq. gives employees and their qualified
beneficiaries the opportunity to continue health insurance coverage under the
employer’s health plan when a “qualifying event” would normally result in the
loss of eligibility. Some common qualifying events are resignation, termination
of employment, or death of an employee; a reduction in an employee’s hours or a
leave of absence; an employee’s divorce or legal separation and a dependent
child no longer meeting eligibility requirements.
   (B)   Under COBRA, the employee or beneficiary pays the full cost of
coverage at the employer’s group rates, plus an administration fee.
   (C)   The town provides each eligible employee with a written notice
describing rights granted under COBRA when the employee becomes eligible for
coverage under the employer’s health insurance plan. The notice contains
important information about the employee’s rights and obligations. Specific
details are available in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
§ 33.27 DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
   The town provides for employees to voluntarily participate in a deferred
compensation program. Specific details are available in the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office.
CHAPTER 34: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Regulations adopted by reference
   
34.02   Drug free workplace
   
34.03   Conflict of interest and nepotism policy
   
34.04   Reimbursement of travel expenses
   
34.05   Cellular telephone allowance
§ 34.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s personnel policies are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
§ 34.02 DRUG FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Overview. The town makes a commitment to provide employees a safe
working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment, and operating
practices comply with health and safety standards, and to maintain public
confidence in the town and its employees. Since the town values each employee,
the town offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse
problems.
   (B)   Policy. The town requires all employees to report for work in a
condition that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient
manner. Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol
or with prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (1)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (2)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state, or local laws
or to better serve the needs of the town.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C.
8120 and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. 1308.11-1308.15) and
prescription controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of
prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on town premises (including vehicles
used for town business). These include but are not limited to marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol. 
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for town business is never
authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations. Employees must as a condition of employment,
abide by the terms of this section and report any conviction to the town under
a criminal drug statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when
conducting town business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town
within five business days after the conviction. The town will then notify the
appropriate contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from
either the employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by
the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988.)
      (1)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the town’s reputation and image.
      (2)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation. Health maintenance is primarily a personal
responsibility and it is the individual's responsibility to correct
unsatisfactory job performance or behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug
abuse. In an effort to assist employees, the town will provide various means
for employees and their family members to remain aware of the dangers of
substance abuse in the workplace and to overcome drug and alcohol related
problems.
      (1)   Employees with a personal, alcohol, or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in a approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (2)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other town policies or job requirements.
      (3)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (4)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline.)
   (G)   Testing.
      (1)   The town reserves the right to ask employees to submit to random
alcohol or drug tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
town; and/or
         (c)   When required by law.
      (3)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the town. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 34.03 CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND NEPOTISM POLICY.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the laws effective July
1, 2012 known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   The town shall have a nepotism and a contracting with a unit policy
that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2 (hereinafter
“nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter “contracting with a unit by a
relative policy”) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town nepotism policy is hereby established effective July 1, 2012
by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (D)   The town contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and IC 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and therefore without such authority by the majority he/she will
not be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-5-2-
9.4.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this resolution and demonstrating compliance with these same
policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of the contracting with unit by a
relative policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (K)   The policies created by this resolution are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
      (1)   Posting a copy of this resolution in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this resolution to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this resolution;
or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the polices
established by this resolution to its employees and elected and appointed
officials. Upon the taking of any of these actions the policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (L)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer for the town
for public inspection as maybe required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Res. 6-12-1, passed 7-1-2012)
§ 34.04 REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   (A)   An officer or employee may be reimbursed for mileage at the federal
government mileage rate for the use of privately owned automobiles for official
business. However, such reimbursement may be made only if the employee carries
motor vehicle liability insurance as required by law, and demonstrates proof.
   (B)   An officer or employee must file all receipts on appropriate forms.
The officer or employee must state origin and destination of each trip in
sufficient detail to account for the mileage claimed. No reimbursements are
payable for travel between home and office. Travel expense reports, which
include travel expenses, incurred more than 30 days before the voucher date
must be accompanied by a letter of explanation detailing the reason.
   (C)   If using a town credit card, claims and receipts must be turned into
the Clerk-Treasurer within three days of the trip.
   (D)   Personal expenses incurred in traveling are not reimbursable,
including but not limited to, personal telephone calls, laundry, entertainment,
and alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   When traveling outside the local units boundaries on official
business, officers and employees may also be reimbursed for lodging and meals.
The claim for reimbursement of lodging should be supported by itemized
receipts. All meal receipts must show itemization of purchase.
   (F)   According to IRS regulations, while traveling on business, unless
employee has overnight accommodation, meals will be taxable.
(Res. 9-15-1, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 34.05 CELLULAR TELEPHONE ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Employees holding a position requiring cellular telephone availability
will receive a monthly cellular telephone allowance according to the following:
$40 per month.
   (B)   Town employees receiving a cellular phone allowance will maintain an
active cellular telephone at all times and are required to provide the
telephone number of that cellular telephone to the town. Town employees are
also required to maintain features on their plan according to the allowance
level that they are receiving compensation for.
   (C)   The cellular telephone allowance cannot be used for a track phone.
   (D)   Cellular telephones and accessories owned by the town at the time this
policy is adopted can be retained by the employee for use with the employee's
cellular telephone contract. Required taxes for any telephone and/or equipment
retained by the employee will be deducted from the employee's paycheck and
reported on their form W-2. All future cellular telephone equipment needs are
the responsibility of the employee.
   (E)   In the event an employee terminates his or her employment with the
town, the cellular telephone allowance will be prorated by the number of days
employed during the month and any allowance that might be required to be
reimbursed to the town, will be withheld from the employee's last pay check.
   (F)   Employees will not be eligible for cellular telephone allowance during
disability leave or any other extended leave of absence from work.
(Ord. 11-15-2, passed 11-9-2014)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
35.01   Promotional Fund
   
35.02   Use of credit cards by employees
   
35.03   Purchasing policies; purchasing agency and agents
   
35.04   Procedures for use of petty cash funds, cash change funds
   
35.05   Fee on returned checks
   
35.06   Materiality threshold
   
35.07   Internal control standards
   
35.08   Purchasing policy when federal funds are used
   
35.09   Fixed asset capitalization policy
   
35.10   Preapproved payment of claims
§ 35.01 PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   A town Promotional Fund is hereby established. The Town Council is hereby
authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the General Fund or from other
funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting the betterment of the
municipality.
§ 35.02 USE OF CREDIT CARDS BY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer will obtain a credit card to be used for purchases
in the town. The amount of the credit limit will be determined by the Town
Council President and the Clerk-Treasurer. The amounts cannot be increased
without approval of the Town Council President and Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The credit cards for each department will be kept by the Clerk-
Treasurer. Upon request by the employee, the credit card will be signed out to
the employee with approval by Town Council President. A record showing the date
of issuance, date of return, and purpose of use will be maintained by the
department with a copy going to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   The credit card and detailed receipts will be returned to the Clerk-
Treasurer within 72 hours of the purchase. If the employee is attending a
school that extends over a billing cycle, the employee will make arrangements
to get the receipts to the Clerk-Treasurer for payment.
   (D)   All credit card billing statements shall be sent by the issuer to the
Clerk-Treasurer. The charges of the cards shall be paid by the Clerk-Treasurer
from the appropriate budget line item pursuant to the claims procedures of the
town.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay the charge cards promptly so that no
interest carrying charges or penalties will be incurred due to late payments.
Any employee who causes interest or carrying charges to be added to the credit
card account by a failure to timely provide the required information to the
Clerk-Treasurer shall be personally liable for the interest or carrying charge.
Any employee who fails to provide a receipt for the purchase shall be
personally liable for the purchase.
   (F)   No credit card issued by the town for any department or employee shall
be used by any person for private/personal purchases.
   (G)   Any violations of this section will result in disciplinary action, up
to and including discharge.
§ 35.03 PURCHASING POLICIES; PURCHASING AGENCY AND AGENTS.
   (A)   Purchasing policies.
      (1)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records.
         (a)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The Clerk-Treasurer, or
the purchasing agent who receives offers, shall retain all offers received in a
secure location prior to the date and time at which offers will be opened in
order to prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the opening of the offers.
         (b)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been
opened, the purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in
such a manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible
for evaluating the offers.
         (c)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made available for public inspection and copying
after the time of the bid opening, unless the bid opening is delayed, as
authorized in this section or any other statute or ordinance.
         (d)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a
register of proposals for each request for proposals issued, which shall
contain information concerning the proposals available for public inspection
and copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
      (2)   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals.
The purchasing agent may conduct discussions with parties who are submitting
proposals. Final offers may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit
proposals and are determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for
a contract award.
      (3)   Delay of openings of offers. When the Town Council President makes
a written determination that it is in the town’s best interest, offers may be
opened after the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time, and place of
the rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the
originally scheduled opening.
      (4)   Evidence of financial responsibility.
         (a)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not
require evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a
purchase is less than $25,000.
         (b)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may
include a requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial
responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a
bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated
cost of the purchase.
         (c)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the
purchase.
      (5)   Use of RFP for purchase of designated types of supplies. If the
Council determines that it is either not practicable or not advantageous to
purchase certain types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding, it shall
authorize the appropriate purchasing agent to receive proposals.
      (6)   Modification and termination of contracts.
         (a)   Price adjustments. Any purchasing agent for the town may include
provisions to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following
provisions for price adjustments may be included:
            1.   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed
price adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon
after the beginning of performance as possible;
            2.   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
            3.   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to
the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee,
all as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon; and/or
            4.   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon.
         (b)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may
include provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
         (c)   Unilateral rights of the town. The purchasing agent may include
in a purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the
purchasing agent, or the Council, to order changes in the work within the scope
of the contract, order temporary work stoppage, or order delays in time of
performance.
         (d)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated
quantities of work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
      (7)   Small purchases.
         (a)   This section applies to all purchases which are defined as small
purchases under I.C. 5-22-8-2.
            1.   In the event the purchase is between $5,000 and $25,000, the
purchasing agent making the purchase shall receive prices either by phone, in
writing, or in person from at least three suppliers.
            2.   The purchasing agent shall keep a file for purchases made
under this division (A)(7) with the following information:
               a.   The name, address, and phone number of each supplier who
provided a price;
               b.   The price provided by each supplier;
               c.   The supplier chosen and the reason for the choice if the
supplier did not provide the lowest price; and
               d.   The reason why fewer than three suppliers were contacted.
      (8)   Required purchases. All purchases made by any purchasing agent or
the purchasing agency shall be supplies manufactured in the United States
unless there is a specific finding, in writing, that the exceptions set out in
I.C. 5-22-15-21 apply.
   (B)   Purchasing agency and agents.
      (1)   The Council is designated as the purchasing agency for the town.
      (2)   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties
authorized under I.C. 5-22, as may be amended from time to time by law, or
supplemented from time to time by ordinances adopted by the Town Council, and
policies adopted by the purchasing agency.
§ 35.04 PROCEDURES FOR USE OF PETTY CASH FUNDS, CASH CHANGE FUNDS.
   (A)   The departments are authorized to establish and maintain petty cash
funds and cash change funds.
   (B)   Petty cash funds shall be used for expenditures, not to exceed the
amounts set by the town, and any employee making a purchase on behalf of the
town from the petty cash fund shall immediately place a receipt for the
purchase in the petty cash drawer verifying the amount of the purchase from the
petty cash fund.
   (C)   At all times, the total cash in the petty cash fund, plus the amount
of receipts, shall equal the petty cash authorization amount for the department
as set by the town.
   (D)   The cash change account of each department shall be kept separate from
the petty cash account and shall be used only to make change and to receive
cash payments on behalf of the town.
   (E)   All employees receiving cash for the town shall provide a receipt to
the person making payments and retain a duplicate of that receipt in the cash
change drawer.
   (F)   At all times, the amount in the cash change drawer of any department
shall equal the amount authorized by the town plus the total of the duplicate
receipts contained in the cash change drawer.
   (G)   At the time any department seeks additional funds for its petty cash
account, it shall tender to the Clerk-Treasurer all receipts documenting
expenditures from the petty cash account.
   (H)   All departments shall return their cash change account to the
authorized balance as often as there is an excessive cash deposit in the
possession of that department, but at least weekly and shall provide the Clerk-
Treasurer duplicate receipts evidencing the receipt of funds into that account.
   (I)   The Clerk-Treasurer and the representatives of the State Board of
Accounts, or its designees, may at any time audit the petty cash funds and cash
change accounts of any department of the town.
   (J)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall cause this section to be codified in the
Code of Ordinances of the town.
§ 35.05 FEE ON RETURNED CHECKS.
   All departments of the town are authorized to impose a $15 charge for any
and all returned checks resulting from insufficient funds in the account upon
which they are drawn.
§ 35.06 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The materiality threshold at which point the town reports incidents of
material variances, losses, shortages, or thefts to the State Board of Accounts
is:
      (1)   A one-time cash loss of at least $1,000;
      (2)   A recurring cash loss of at least $500 average per month;
      (3)   A value of $1,000 for a one-time loss of assets;
      (4)   A creation of additional liabilities of at least $1,000 average per
month.
   (B)   All items not reported to the State Board of Accounts shall be
resolved at the Town Council level with appropriate documentation retained by
the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council will comply with I.C. 5-11-1-27(I), which requires
public officials who have actual knowledge of or reasonable cause to believe
that there has been a misappropriation of public funds to immediately send
written notice of the misappropriation to the State Board of Accounts and the
prosecuting attorney.
   (D)   When an irregular variance, loss, shortage, or theft is determined
material pursuant to the town’s policy on materiality the Clerk-Treasurer must
report the incident to the State Board of Accounts. On the State Board of
Accounts' website there is a notification link, which allows public officials
to report via e-mail material irregular variances, losses, shortages, or
thefts. Telephone and in-person reporting is also acceptable. Reports will be
followed up with a return e-mail or call to gather additional information as
necessary. All reports of irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts are
maintained by the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2016-3-1, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 35.07 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The town adopts as policy the internal control standards as set forth by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly written and published by the Indiana
State Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from time to time.
In order to implement these standards, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify in
writing that personnel as defined in statute have received the required
training. All officers, elected officials and employees are required to comply
with the policy. Employees who fail to comply with this policy are subject to
discipline, including but not limited to termination of their employment.
(Ord. 2016-6-4, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 35.08 PURCHASING POLICY WHEN FEDERAL FUNDS ARE USED.
   (A)   For purchasing with no federal involvement, the town will follow state
law outlined in I.C. 5-22 et seq., as well as any other applicable state
provisions.
   (B)   For purchasing involving federal funds or federal oversight, the
following procedure shall be followed:
      (1)   The town will maintain records sufficient to detail the history of
procurement. These records will include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Rationale for the method of procurement;
         (b)   Selection of contract type;
         (c)   Contractor selection or rejection; and
         (d)   The basis for the contract price.
      (2)   Informal procurement methods. When the value of the procurement for
property or services under a federal award does not exceed the simplified
acquisition threshold (SAT), as defined by federal law, formal procurement
methods are not required. The town may use informal procurement methods to
expedite the completion of its transactions and minimize the associated
administrative burden and cost. The informal methods used for procurement of
property or services at or below the SAT include:
         (a)   Micro-purchases.
            1.   Distribution. The acquisition of supplies or services, the
aggregate dollar amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold
established by federal law. To the maximum extent practicable, the town should
distribute micro-purchases equitably among qualified suppliers.
            2.   Micro-purchase awards. Micro-purchases may be awarded without
soliciting competitive price or rate quotations if the town considers the price
to be reasonable based on research, experience, purchase history or other
information and documents it files accordingly.
            3.   Micro-purchase thresholds. The town adopts the federally-
determined threshold for micro-purchases, reserving the right to increase the
threshold based on an evaluation of risk.
            4.   If the town decides on a threshold above the federal standard,
the town must include any of the following:
               a.   A qualification as a low-risk auditee, in accordance with
the federally-set criteria for the most recent audit;
               b.   An annual internal institutional risk assessment to
identify, mitigate, and manage financial risks; or
               c.   For public institutions, a higher threshold consistent with
state law.
            5.   If the town increases the micro-purchase threshold over
$50,000, it must be approved by the cognizant agency for indirect costs. The
town must submit a request with all federal requirements. The increased
threshold is valid until there is a change in status in which the justification
was approved.
         (b)   Small purchases.
            1.   Small purchase procedures. The acquisition of property or
services, the aggregate dollar amount of which is higher than the micro-
purchase threshold but does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
Price or rate quotations must be obtained from an adequate number of qualified
sources as determined appropriate by the Town Council.
            2.   Simplified acquisition thresholds. The town adopts the federal
simplified acquisition threshold.
         (c)   Formal procurement methods. When the value of the procurement
for property or services under a federal financial assistance award exceeds the
SAT, formal procurement methods are required. Formal procurement methods
require following documented procedures. Formal procurement methods also
require public advertising unless a non-competitive procurement can be used in
accordance with federal law. The following formal methods of procurement are
used for procurement of property or services above the simplified acquisition
threshold or a value below the simplified acquisition threshold:
            1.   Sealed bids. Bids shall be publicly solicited, and a firm
fixed-price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded to the responsible
bidder whose bid, conforming with all the material terms and conditions of the
invitation for bids, is the lowest in price.
            2.   Sealed bids applicability. Sealed bids will be used when the
following conditions are present:
               a.   A complete, adequate, and realistic specification or
purchase description;
               b.   Two or more responsible bidders are willing and able to
compete effectively for the business; and
               c.   A firm fixed price contract and the selection of the
successful bidder can be made principally on the basis of price.
            3.   If sealed bids are used, the following requirements apply:
               a.   Bids must be solicited from an adequate number of qualified
sources, providing them sufficient response time prior to the date set for
opening the bids, for local, and tribal governments, the invitation for bids
must be publicly advertised;
               b.   The invitation for bids, which will include any
specifications and pertinent attachments, must define the items or services in
order for the bidder to properly respond;
               c.   All bids will be opened at the time and place prescribed in
the invitation for bids, and for local and tribal governments, the bids must be
opened publicly;
               d.   A firm fixed-price contract award will be made in writing
to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. Where specified in bidding
documents, factors such as discounts, transportation cost, and life cycle costs
must be considered in determining which bid is lowest. Payment discounts will
only be used to determine the low bid when prior experience indicates that such
discounts are usually taken advantage of; and
               e.   Any or all bids may be rejected if there is a sound
documented reason.
            4.   Proposals. A procurement method in which either a fixed price
or cost reimbursement type contract is awarded. Proposals are generally used
when conditions are not appropriate for the use of sealed bids. They are
awarded in accordance with the following requirements:
               a.   Requests for proposals must be publicized and identify all
evaluation factors and their relative importance. Proposals must be solicited
from an adequate number of qualified offerors. Any response to publicized
requests for proposals must be considered to the maximum extent practical;
               b.   The town will hire experts to provide technical evaluations
of the proposals received and advice making selections;
               c.   Contracts must be awarded to the responsible offeror whose
proposal is most advantageous to the town, with price and other factors
considered; and
               d.   The town may use competitive proposal procedures for
qualifications-based procurement of architectural/engineering (A/E)
professional services whereby offeror's qualifications are evaluated and the
most qualified offeror is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and
reasonable compensation. The method, where price is not used as a selection
factor, can only be used in procurement of A/E professional services. It cannot
be used to purchase other types of services through A/E firms that are a
potential source to perform the proposed effort.
         (d)   Noncompetitive procurement. There are specific circumstances in
which noncompetitive procurement can be used. Noncompetitive procurement can
only be awarded if one or more of the following circumstances apply:
            1.   The acquisition of property or services, the aggregate dollar
amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold;
            2.   The item is available only from a single source;
            3.   The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not
permit a delay resulting from publicizing a competitive solicitation;
            4.   The federal awarding agency or pass-through entity expressly
authorizes a noncompetitive procurement in response to a written request from
the town; or
            5.   After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is
determined inadequate.
      (3)   The town shall conduct procurement in a manner that prohibits the
use of statutorily- or administratively-imposed state, local, or tribal
geographical preferences in the evaluation of bids or proposals, except in
those cases where applicable federal statutes expressly mandate or encourage
geographic preference.
      (4)   When contracting for A/E services, geographic location may be a
selection criterion provided its application leaves an appropriate number of
qualified firms, given the nature and size of the project, to compete for the
contract.
      (5)   The town will follow procedures outlined in CPR 180.300,
particularly that it will verify that the person with whom the town intends to
do business is not excluded or disqualified, by checking (a) SAM exclusions; or
(b) collecting a certification from that person; or (c) adding a clause or
condition to the covered transaction with that person.
(Ord. 2022-8-1, passed 9-12-2022)
§ 35.09 FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions and provisions. For the purposes of this section, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvement of buildings, structures or other fixed assets; and
equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness.
These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition to the
government's general fixed assets.
      FIXED ASSET. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the
operating activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are
needed for the production or sale of goods or services are termed property,
plat and equipment or fixed assets. These assets are not held for sale in the
ordinary course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (e.g., land, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and
fixtures).
      MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT. 
         (a)   An apparatus, tool, or conglomeration of pieces to form a tool.
The tool will stand alone and not become a part of a basic structure or
building.
         (b)   The town will capitalize and tag items with an individual value
equal to or greater than $5,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to
form one unit with a total value greater than the above-mentioned limit will be
one unit.
         (c)   Shipping charges, consultation fees, and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, delivery, or set up, (including contractors and/
or town employees salary and benefits), which makes such equipment operable for
its intended purpose will be capitalized.
         (d)   1.   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and
equipment will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the
following conditions:
               a.   Total costs exceed $5,000;
               b.   The useful life extended two or more years; and
               c.   The total costs will be greater than the current book value
and less than the fair market value.
            2.   Examples include:
               a.   A work truck being equipped with screens, lights, or radios
for use as a single unit throughout its life expectancy is considered one unit.
               b.   If police cars are constantly changing light bars or radios
to other vehicles, the town will capitalize each piece of equipment separately,
if it meets the required dollar amount.
               c.   A department's computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard, and
printer) is considered one unit.
               d.   A department will record donated machinery and equipment at
fair market value on the date of transfer with any associated costs.
               e.   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow
the source funding policies and above procedures.
      TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the
physical senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard
and smelled.
   (B)   Recording and accounting.
      (1)   The town and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays
within the fund from which the expenditure was made in accordance with the
Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Towns Accounting Manual. The cost of
property, plant and equipment includes all expenditures necessary to put the
asset into position and ready for use. For purposes of recording fixed assets
of the city and its departments, the valuation of assets shall be based on
historical cost or where the historical cost is indeterminable, by estimation
for those assets in existence.
      (2)   The town's municipally owned utilities shall record acquisition of
fixed assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. When
an asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply recorded at the
amount of cash paid, including all outlays relating to its purchase and
preparation for intended use. Assets may be acquired under a number of other
arrangements including:
         (a)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase price.
         (b)   Purchase on deferred payment contract.
         (c)   Acquisition under capital lease.
         (d)   Acquisition by exchange of non-monetary assets.
         (e)   Acquisition by issuance of securities.
         (f)   Acquisition by self-construction.
         (g)   Acquisition by donation or discovery.
      (3)   Some of these arrangements present special problems relating to the
cost to be recorded, for example, in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has long been recognized as a part of the asset cost.
Reference to an intermediate accounting manual will illustrate the recording of
acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition arrangements. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the utilities the valuation of assets
shall be based on historical cost.
      (4)   In addition, an asset register (prescribed form 211) shall be
maintained to provide a detailed record of the capital assets of the
governmental unit.
   (C)   Safeguarding of assets. Accounting controls shall be designed and
implemented to provide reasonable assurances that:
      (1)   Capital expenditures made by the town and its various departments
and utilities be in accordance with management's authorization as documented in
the minutes.
      (2)   Transactions of the utilities be recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
principles.
      (3)   Adequate detailed records be maintained to assure accountability
for town and utility owned assets.
      (4)   Access to assets be permitted in accordance with management's
authorization.
      (5)   The record accountability for assets be compared with the existing
assets at least every two years and appropriate action be taken with respect to
any differences.
(Ord. 2024-6-3, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 35.10 PREAPPROVED PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council is hereby authorized to make
payments for the following kinds of expenses prior to the written approval of
the Town Council of the town:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions.
      (2)   License or permit fees.
      (3)   Insurance premiums.
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges.
      (5)   General grant program where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the advance amount.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute.
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements.
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements.
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments.
      (10)   Payroll.
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes.
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
      (13)   Claims with finance charge which will become due before the next
meeting of the Town Council.
      (14)   Refunds.
      (15)   Claims with discounts available if paid before the next Town
Council meeting.
      (16)   Expenses which have already been budgeted so long as the payment
is proportionate to the budgeted amount of that expense.
   (B)   For payments made pursuant to division (A)(16) above, the amount
approved for the budgeted expense must be proportionate to the payment made for
that expense, and the department which made the purchase must provide the
necessary information for the Clerk-Treasurer to make this determination.
   (C)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the fiscal officer.
   (D)   The Town Council shall review and ratify the claim at its next meeting
of the Town Council following prepayment of the claim.
(Ord. 2024-6-1, passed 6-10-2024)
CHAPTER 36: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
36.01   Creation
   
36.02   Duties
   
36.03   Notice
   
36.04   Admissions
   
36.05   Denials
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01 CREATION.
   (A)   An Ordinance Violations Bureau shall be established to assist with the
clerical work for ordinance violation cases issued by the town for violations
of Title VII and Chapters
90,
91,
92,
93,
110, and
130 of this code or any other provision of the town code which provides for a
fine pursuant to §
10.99. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to violations of titles
or chapters of this code other than as provided herein.
   (B)   Said Bureau shall be established within the Clerk-Treasurer's office
and shall be maintained and operated by the Clerk-Treasurer's office under the
supervision of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2024-4-2, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 36.02 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Ordinance Violations Bureau shall receive all citation payments
made pursuant to a violation of Title VII and Chapters
90,
91,
92,
93,
110, and
130 of this code and/or any violation of this code for which a fine may be
assessed pursuant to §
10.99 of the town code and appropriately account for said payments.
   (B)   The Ordinance Violations Bureau shall accept designated fines and
issue receipts for payments of citations issued under these titles between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Tuesday through Thursday at the Clerk-
Treasurer's office located in the Town Hall.
   (C)   The Ordinance Violations Bureau shall keep records and submit
summarized quarterly reports to the Town Council of all notices issued and
citations issued for violations of ordinances in the town, of all fines
collected by the Ordinance Violations Bureau, and of the final disposition of
each case. These records shall also be maintained to show all types of
violations and the totals of each. These records shall be public records.
   (D)   The Ordinance Violations Bureau shall keep an easily accessible record
of all violations for which any person has been convicted during the preceding
12 months, whether guilt was determined by admission through the Bureau or in
the appropriate court.
(Ord. 2024-4-2, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 36.03 NOTICE.
   Any law enforcement officer who issues an ordinance citation for violation
of Title VII and Chapters
90,
91,
92,
93,
110, and
130 of this code and/or any violation of this code for which a fine may be
assessed pursuant to §
10.99 shall serve a copy of the citation upon the person alleged to have
violated this code and serve another copy of the citation on the Ordinance
Violations Bureau. The law enforcement officer shall also serve upon the person
alleged to have violated this code under the above mentioned provisions a
notice and waiver form setting forth the amount of the fine, the deadline for
payment of the fine, the procedure for admitting the violation and paying the
fine, and the procedure for denying the violation.
(Ord. 2024-4-2, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 36.04 ADMISSIONS.
   Any person served with a citation shall have the option of paying the fine
within the time specified in the notice and waiver form to the Ordinance
Violations Bureau upon entering an admission to the violation and upon waiving
appearance in court. If the person who is issued a citation wishes to admit the
allegation and pay the appropriate fine, said person shall either mail or
personally deliver the notice and waiver form along with a money order in the
amount of the appropriate fine payable to the "Town of Kirklin" to the Clerk-
Treasurer's office. The payment of a fine to the Bureau shall be deemed an
acknowledgment of conviction of the alleged offense, and the Bureau shall give
a receipt for the fine acknowledging payment thereof.
(Ord. 2024-4-2, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 36.05 DENIALS.
   If the person who is issued the violation citation wishes to deny the
violation or fails to pay the violation within 30 days of the date of the
violation, the citation shall be dismissed from the Ordinance Violations Bureau
and shall be re-filed with the County Prosecuting Attorney's Office or the Town
Attorney for filing as a separate cause of action in the appropriate court.
(Ord. 2024-4-2, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   The schedule of penalties is adopted and incorporated as a part of this
chapter as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 2024-4-2, passed 4-15-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
52.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Water rates and charges
   
50.02   Cross-connections prohibited
   
50.03   Required use of trash pick-up service
   
50.04   Water meter
§ 50.01 WATER RATES AND CHARGES.
   There shall be and there is hereby established for the use of and the
service rendered by the water works system of the town the following rates and
charges, based upon the use of water supplied by said water works system.
   (A)   The following shall be charged for monthly gallon usage:
 
Charge per 1,000 Gallons 
February 25, 2025 February 25, 2026 February 25, 2027 to February 25, 2028 to
to February 24,   to February 24,   February 24, 2028    February 24, 2029
2026              2027
$14.11            $14.53            $14.97               $15.42
 
      (1)   Minimum monthly charge based upon size of taps shall be as follows:
             Taps Minimum Charge per Month
             February 25, February 25,     February 25,     February 25,
Size of Taps 2025 to      2026 to February 2027 to February 2028 to February
             February 24, 24, 2027         24, 2028         24, 2029
             2026
             Taps Minimum Charge per Month
             February 25, February 25,     February 25,     February 25,
Size of Taps 2025 to      2026 to February 2027 to February 2028 to February
             February 24, 24, 2027         24, 2028         24, 2029
             2026
5/8 inch     $33.86       $34.88           $35.93           $37.01
3/4 inch     $33.86       $34.88           $35.93           $37.01
1 inch       $35.25       $36.31           $37.40           $38.52
1-1/2 inch   $56.14       $57.82           $59.55           $61.34
2 inch       $84.38       $86.91           $89.52           $92.21
3 inch       $140.55      $144.77          $149.11          $153.58
4 inch       $224.91      $231.66          $238.61          $245.77
 
      (2)   Tap fee for water for all connections is the actual cost of making
a connection.
   (B)   The amount to be paid by the town, or others, for fire hydrants shall
be $721.13 per annum per hydrant payable semi-annually.
   (C)   Water meter deposits shall be $250 per meter.
      (1)   If a water customer suffers a water leak, one turn off and turn on
per leak will be allowed at no charge.
      (2)   Any additional trips shall be charged at the rate of $25 per call
during office hours. After office hours, any additional trips shall be charged
at the rate of $50 per call.
      (3)   A fee of $25 per inspection will be charged to realtors, their
agents or persons in similar circumstances who have water turned on and off for
inspection purposes.
      (4)   Inspection fees for new construction shall be assessed at the rate
of $40 per inspection.
      (5)   The re-connect fee for customers whose service was terminated for
non-payment shall be $50 for connections during regular business hours only.
This fee is charged if bill is not paid by noon on shut off day regardless if
it has been terminated yet or not. Once a reconnection fee is charged for
nonpayment, the full amount of customer bill is due, including fee, before
service will be restored. Service will not be restored during non-working hours
due to non-payment.
      (6)   Customers shall pay the full price for water received during the
time that such customer suffers a water leak. When the water received exceeds
that customer’s average water usage during the preceding year by at least
25,000 gallons, that customer shall have up to six months to pay for such extra
usage. Water customers who suffer a water leak shall have their sewage fee
adjusted to that customer’s average usage, however that adjustment shall be
allowed only one time per year.
   (D)   Town Council has the discretion to adjust the water portion of the
bill.
   (E)   Owners shall be responsible for any unpaid bills by renters.
   (F)   Returned checks shall be charged an additional fees of $25 per
returned check.
   (G)   There shall be a late charge penalty on all bills not paid by the
fifteenth of the month for a one-time fee of 10% of the current bill.
(Ord. 4-10-1, passed 5-10-2010; Ord. 6-2018-1, passed 6-11-2018; Ord. 2018-11-
2, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 2022-6-2, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2025-1-2, passed 2-
10-2025)
§ 50.02 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the town
water system, and the other, water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish, permit to be
established, maintain, or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality,
unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the town and by
the Environmental Management Board.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the town’s water works,
or his or her agent, to cause inspections to be made of all properties served
by the public water system where cross-connections with the public water system
is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and reinspections, based on
potential health hazards involved, shall be as established by the town’s water
works.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town’s
water works shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine any property served by a connection to the public water system of the
town for cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any
property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed
evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
   (E)   The town’s water works is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross-connections have been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the town’s water works that a cross-connection or
an emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids including all
businesses, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, all other hazardous
users and all residences attaching to the town’s water utility must install and
maintain a reduced-pressure principle backflow preventer in the main water line
serving each building on the premises. The backflow preventer must be installed
in an easily accessible location not subject to flooding or freezing.
   (H)   This section does not supersede the State Uniform Plumbing Code, but
is supplementary to it. (Ord. 10-90-1, passed 10-9-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 REQUIRED USE OF TRASH PICK-UP SERVICE.
   (A)   All households within the corporate limits of the town are required to
make use of the trash pick-up service negotiated by the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer is authorized and directed to bill said households
for such service along with other town utility billings. Said bills shall be in
the amount of the price for such service as negotiated by the Town Council plus
any service charge authorized by the Town Council.
   (C)   Effective as of January 1, 2025, the current monthly rate for trash
pick-up will be as follows:
 
All Customers $14.00 per month
 
(Ord. 8-96-2, passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 12-08-2, passed 12-29-2008; Ord. 11-15-1,
passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2022-2-4, passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 2024-12-1, passed 12-9-
2024)
Cross-reference:
   Trash collection period, see § 92.09
§ 50.04 WATER METER.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish requirements for
connecting to the town's water and/or sanitary sewer systems.
   (B)   Administration. This section shall be administered by the Department
of Utilities.
   (C)   Connection required. Where service is available, unless otherwise
exempt by law, the owner of every lot or parcel of land within the town shall
connect or cause the plumbing of any building or buildings thereon to be
connected with the town's water and/or sanitary system and use the facilities
of such system. All such connections shall be made in accordance to the rules
and regulations which shall be adopted from time to time by the Town Council.
   (D)   Each residential unit whether occupying one or more lots and whether
it shall occupy any lot or parcel jointly with any other residential unit, up
to a total of four residential units, shall be considered a separate unit for
payment of water and sanitary sewer fees and charges and separate connections
for water and sanitary sewer shall be required for each unit. Multi-residential
structures with more than four residential units may be considered at the
discretion of the Board to be non-residential for meeting and billing purposes
and to have a master meter servicing all units in the building.
   (E)   Cross-connection. It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or
cause to be connected to the town's water pipes, by any means whatsoever, other
pipes containing water from any water supply, other than the potable water
supply of the town.
   (F)   Backflow prevention. Each structure connected to the town’s water line
shall have a backflow prevention assembly installed in accordance with
department specifications, inspection and approval.
   (G)   Unlawful connections. It shall be unlawful for any person to make any
connection to the town’s water and/or sanitary sewer systems without the
authority from the town.
   (H)   All necessary meters will be furnished by the town and shall remain
the property of the town.
(Ord. 2015-12-2, passed 12-14-2015)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
Sewer Use
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Use of private disposal system
   
51.03   Unauthorized altering of public sewers
   
51.04   Building sewer permits
   
51.05   Building sewers
   
51.06   Prohibited discharges and activities
   
51.07   Violations
   
51.08   Inspection authority
   
51.09   Notice to cease, time limit and fines
   
51.10   Inspection of private property building drain and building sewer
   
51.11   Unmetered and large users
   
51.12   Multiple use of single meter
   
51.13   Summer residential discount
   
51.14   Adjustment for fire protection
   
51.15   High strength wastes
   
51.16   Billing and collection of charges; rates
   
51.17   Prohibited discharge
   
51.18   Study of rates and charges
   
51.19   Enforcement
Sanitary Sewer Extensions
   
51.35   Purpose and authority
   
51.36   Preliminary matters
   
51.37   Petition
   
51.38   Town Council fiscal study; ordinance proposal
   
51.39   Town Council approval
   
51.40   Design
   
51.41   Project confirmation
   
51.42   Construction
   
51.43   Project completion
   
51.44   Sewer connections and costs
   
51.45   [Reserved]
   
51.46   Independent audit
   
51.47   Barrett Law master plan
   
51.48   Violations
 
   
51.99   Penalty
SEWER USE
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASTM. American Society of Testing Materials.
   AWWA. American Water Works Association.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of the sanitary
drainage system inside the walls of any building, which receives the discharge
from soil or waste stacks and branches and conveys the same to a point three
feet outside the building walls where it connects with its respective building
sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from commercial preparation, cooking, and dispensing
of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. Ground water that enters public and building sewers through
defective pipe joints and broken or cracked pipe and manholes or cleanouts.
   INFLOW. Water discharged into public sewers or building sewers from such
sources as roof downspouts, sump pumps, foundation drains, cellar and yard area
drains, cooling water from air conditioners, and other clean-water discharges
from commercial and industrial establishments.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bath tubs, showers, household laundries, basement drains, garage floor drains,
bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains, and
stable floor drains.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and are removable by laboratory
filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 51.02 USE OF PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within said
town, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town is hereby required at
his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after date of official
notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the
property line.
   (E)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of division (D) above, the building sewer shall be connected to a
private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (F)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department
of Health and County Health Department. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (G)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (F) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (H)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (I)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the local
health officer.
   (J)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or sand.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 UNAUTHORIZED ALTERING OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one for residential
and commercial service, and another for service to establishments producing
industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and inspection
fee of $25 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $50 for
any industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at
the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 51.05 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of a
new building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (B)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway; the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (C)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   New building sewers shall be polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe. PVC pipe
shall be Type PSM conforming to ASTM D3034 (SDR 35), ASTM D2241 (SDR 21), or a
plastic pipe meeting or exceeding either of the two aforementioned types if
approved by the Superintendent.
   (E)   Building sewers that are within ten feet horizontally or 18 inches
vertically from a water main shall be PVC, ASTM D2241 (SDR 21).
   (F)   All building sewer pipe joints shall be of the “O” Ring type, and be
tight and waterproof.
   (G)   All PVC building sewer pipe shall be installed in full compliance with
the “Standard Practice for Underground Installation of Thermoplastic Pipe for
Sewers and Other Gravity - Flow Applications”, ASTM D2321-89. The pipe shall be
laid on a minimum of four inches of crushed stone bedding and covered a minimum
of six inches with crushed stone (less than or equal to one and one-half inch
size). The crushed stone shall be tamped in place around the pipe.
   (H)   All new building sewers shall be air tested in accordance with ASTM
F1417-92, “Standard Test Method for Installation Acceptance of Plastic Gravity
Sewer Lines Using Low - Pressure Air”; and deflection tested after the elapse
of 30 days after placement of the final backfill. No pipe shall exceed a
deflection of 5% or greater.
   (I)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four
inches. The slope of a four-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth inch
per foot.
   (J)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (K)   The depth of the building sewer shall be sufficient to afford
protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and
in straight alignment in so far as possible. Changes in pipe direction shall be
made only with properly curved pipes and fittings.
   (L)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, either by gravity
drain or by forced pump, any roof runoff, foundation drains, areaway drains, or
other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building
drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer.
   (M)   The owner shall, at the owner’s cost and expense, maintain, repair,
and replace any new defective building sewer, including the tee or wye branch,
ell, tapping saddle, or any other apparatus used to connect the building sewer
to the public sewer, in a tight and waterproof condition so as to prevent the
escape of sewage and the infiltration of storm and surface runoff waters.
   (N)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or
his or her representative.
   (O)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, either by gravity
drain or by forced pump, any stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; and/or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150°F (0 and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes having a five-day BOD greater than 250 mg/l;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 300 mg/l of suspended
solids;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 30 mg/l of ammonia
nitrogen;
      (12)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (13)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which in the judgment of
the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard
to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under division (J)
below.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment of equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the said Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, any flammable wastes,
and/or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Sewage”, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate of whether a grab sample of samples should
be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composite of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from
periodic grab samples).
   (J)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern.
   (K)   No old cesspool or septic tank shall be connected to any portion of a
building sewer that is also connected to a public sewer.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 VIOLATIONS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 INSPECTION AUTHORITY.
   The Superintendent, Inspector, and other duly authorized employees of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers, waterways, or facilities for waste
treatment.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 51.09 NOTICE TO CEASE, TIME LIMIT AND FINES.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter except §
51.07 shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 INSPECTION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY BUILDING DRAIN AND BUILDING SEWER.
   (A)   In an effort to eliminate excessive inflow and infiltration, and avoid
potential treatment plant upsets and sanitary sewer overflows, which could
potentially result in enforcement action from the regulating agencies, each
property shall be inspected for proper building sewer connections and for
defects that allow inflow and infiltration into the sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   The inspection shall be at the town’s cost if it is of an existing
building and shall be at the owner’s costs if it is for new construction and
shall include televising and recording the condition of the building to the
public sewer, and entrance onto the property to verify that no sump pump,
foundation drains, down spouts, or other prohibited connections are connected
to the public sewer.
   (C)   The property owner shall be responsible for the costs of fixing any
discovered defects or prohibited sewer connections. In general, each property
owner will be responsible to pay for the cost of eliminating sources of inflow
and infiltration. There is no charge if the lateral is in good shape.
Concerning surface restoration, whenever there are any improvements above the
location of any part of a property owner’s sewer line, at the sole option of
the town, either:
      (1)   The town will remove the improvement and the property owner will be
responsible for replacing said improvement;
      (2)   The property owner shall both remove and replace the improvement;
or
      (3)   The sewer line will be re-routed. Said materials shall be in
conformance with other sections of this subchapter and subject to approval by
the Superintendent.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006; Ord. 7-11-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 UNMETERED AND LARGE USERS.
   (A)   The quantity of water obtained from sources other than the municipal
water works and discharged into the public sanitary sewer system may be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall elect, and the sewage
treatment service may be billed at the above appropriate rates, but not less
than the minimum rate for the smallest water meter.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the town’s water works and the water used thereon or therein is not
measured by a meter, or is measured by a meter not acceptable to the town, then
the amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town,
in order to ascertain the rates of charge, or the owner of other interested
party, at his or her expense, may install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved methods of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of the sewage
discharge.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and in addition uses water from
another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured by a water
meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town in order to ascertain the rates of
charge, or the owner or other interested party, at his expense, may install and
maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of
sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess
of 20,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not
and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices,
or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for
the determination of sewage discharge.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 51.12 MULTIPLE USE OF SINGLE METER.
   (A)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in such case,
for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for each
user and the minimum charge, sewage rates, and charges shall apply to each of
the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate, or buildings served
through the single water meter.
   (B)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as apartments,
housekeeping rooms, or trailers, discharging sanitary sewage water or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in such case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner
set out herein, except that the charge shall be not less than the number of
dwelling units multiplied by the monthly minimum charge for five-eighths inch
water meter. A dwelling unit shall be interpreted as a room or any other space
in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (C)   In the case of trailer parks discharging sanitary sewage, water, or
other liquids in the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or
indirectly, and which are users of water from the town’s water works, and the
quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in such case,
billing shall be for a single service in the manner set out herein, except that
the charge shall be not less than the number of occupied trailer spaces and
other discharging units located thereon multiplied by the monthly minimum
charge for a five-eighths inch water meter.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 51.13 SUMMER RESIDENTIAL DISCOUNT.
   In order that residential users of sewage services shall not be penalized
for the sprinkling of lawns during the months of June, July, August, and
September, the billing for sewage service for residences for said months of
June, July, August, and September shall be based upon the water usage for the
previous months of December, January, February, and March. In the event that
water usage for the said previous months of December, January, February, and
March is greater than the water usage of said months of June, July, August, and
September, then the billing for sewage service shall be computed on the actual
water used in the month for which the sewage service bill is being rendered.
Residential sewage service, as applicable to the sprinkling rate, shall apply
to each lot, parcel of real estate, or building which is occupied and used as a
residence. Said sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises which are
partially or wholly used for industrial or commercial purposes. In the event a
portion of such premises shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes,
the owner shall have the privilege of separating the water service so that the
residential portion of the premises is served through a separate meter, and in
such case, the water usage as registered by the water meter serving such
portion of the premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the
sprinkling rate.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 51.14 ADJUSTMENT FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as for
other uses, the town may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the minimum
charge and the use charge as may be equitable.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 51.15 HIGH STRENGTH WASTES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the services rendered, the town shall have the right to base its
charges not only on volume but also on the strength and character of the sewage
and waste which is it required to treat and dispose of. The town shall have the
right to measure and determine the strength and content of all sewage and waste
discharged either directly or indirectly, into the town’s sanitary sewage
system in such manner and by such method as may be deemed practical in the
light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order to
determine the proper charge.
   (B)   Any and all commercial and industrial installations shall be so
controlled and/or treated as to the sewage strength that their effluent
discharge to the town’s sewers shall have a BOD not to exceed 300 milligrams
per liter, suspended solids not to exceed 250 milligrams per liter, and ammonia
nitrogen not to exceed 30 milligrams per liter at any time. The surcharge rates
will be assessed for exceeding the following listed values:
 
Ammonia nitrogen $0.70 per pound
BOD              $0.20 per pound
Suspended solids $0.20 per pound
 
   (C)   The proper officers of the town are authorized to prohibit the dumping
of wastes into the town’s sewage system which in its discretion are deemed
harmful to the operation of the sewage disposal work of the town.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 51.16 BILLING AND COLLECTION OF CHARGES; RATES.
   (A)   The rates and charges shall be prepared and billed by the town
monthly, as the town may deem appropriate and as determined by the by-laws and
regulations of the town as hereinafter provided for, and shall be collected in
the manner provided by law and ordinance. Said rates and charges will be billed
to the tenant or tenants occupying the property served unless otherwise
requested in writing by the owners, but such billing shall in no way relieve
the owner from liability in the event payment is not made as herein required.
   (B)   The owners of the properties served, which are occupied by tenants,
shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for the
purpose of determining whether such rates and charges have been paid by such
tenants, provided that such examination shall be made in the office in which
said records are kept and during the hours that such office is open for
business.
   (C)   Such rates and charges, except as hereinbefore provided, shall be
based upon the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises as the
same is measured by the water meter therein used, and said metered water usage
shall be determined from the meter readings as furnished by the water utility
serving the town.
   (D)   Rate schedule, effective beginning with the March-April 2022
consumption period and billed for the May 2022 billing period.
      (1)   Except as herein otherwise provided, sewage rates and charges shall
be based on the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises
subject to such rates and charges, as the same is measured by the water meter
there in use.
      (2)   The water usage schedule on which the amount of said sewage and
charges shall be determined shall be as follows:
 
Quantity of Water Used per Month Charge per 1,000 Gallons
First   2,000 gallons per mont$24.25
Next   3,000 gallons per month$20.12
Next    5,000 gallons per mont$16.98
Next   25,000 gallons per mont$12.12
Next   40,000 gallons per mont$9.68
Over   75,000 gallons per mont$3.22
 
      (3)   The minimum charge for sewage service, where the user is a metered
water consumer, shall be based on the meter charge as follows:
 
Meter Size              Per Month
5/8 and 3/4 inch meters $48.48
1 inch meters           $58.13
1½ inch meters         $72.71
2 inch meters           $99.23
3 inch meters           $145.31
4 inch meters           $193.76
 
      (4)   The tap fee per sewer connection shall be $1,500.
      (5)   The charge per sewer inspection shall be $25.
      (6)   Owners shall be responsible for any unpaid bills by renters.
      (7)   The returned check charge shall be $15.
      (8)   Late charge penalty.  All bills not paid by the fifteenth of the
month shall be subject to a one-time fee of 10% of the current bill.
      (9)   Service calls. On an as available basis, during regular times
service calls shall be $25 per hour; overtime service calls shall cost $50 per
hour.
      (10)   For the services rendered to the town, said town shall be subject
to the same rates and charges as hereinbefore provided, or to charges and rates
established in harmony therewith.
      (11)   Rates and charges to users outside the corporation limits of the
town shall be billed at 150% of the rates and charges provided to users within
the corporation limits.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006; Ord. 4-09-1, passed - -2009; Ord. 12-09-1,
passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 6-2017-1, passed 6-5-2017; Ord. 5-2018-1, passed 5-22-
2018; Ord. 2022-2-3, passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 2023-12-6, passed 1-8-2024; Ord.
2024-9-3, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 51.17 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, either by gravity
drain or by forced pump any stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 STUDY OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the town shall cause, every two to five
years, a study to be made within a reasonable period of time following the
normal accounting period.
   (B)   The study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the
costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents, volume,
and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for operation, maintenance, replacement,
debt service requirements, and capital improvements to the waste treatment
system.
   (C)   The studies shall be conducted by officers and/or employees of the
town or by a firm of certified public accountants and/or by a firm of
consulting engineers that have experience in the studies.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 51.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   The proper officers of the town shall make and enforce such by-laws and
regulations as may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient
management of the town’s sewage works; for the sewer system and treatment
plant, for the construction and use of house sewers and connections to the
sewer system, and for the regulation, collecting, rebating, and refunding of
rates and charges.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006)
SANITARY SEWER EXTENSIONS
§ 51.35 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect, maintain, and enhance
public health, safety, and general welfare by establishing a method of
extending sanitary sewers into existing unsewered neighborhoods within the
town’s wastewater utility service area and outside the corporate boundary of
the town.
   (B)   The town is responsible for planning sewer extensions, maintaining the
collection system, and operating the wastewater treatment facility for the
town’s wastewater utility service area. The extension of sanitary sewers into
existing neighborhoods within the town’s wastewater utility service area will
reduce health and environmental problems caused by failing septic systems.
   (C)   All sanitary sewer extensions must conform to town standards and shall
conform to the town’s wastewater utility standards for construction of sanitary
sewers.
   (D)   I.C. 36-9-39 allows a municipality to construct sewers in an existing
neighborhood and provides a payment mechanism to allow those benefitted by the
construction to pay for the improvements over a ten-year period. This statute
is commonly referred to as the Barrett Law.
   (E)   The method of sanitary sewer extension set forth in this subchapter is
intended to be a standard policy and guideline. Variances from these policies
and guidelines may be considered by the Town Council upon written application
to the Town Council citing unusual conditions, justifying changes based upon
sound engineering practices. Proposed variances shall have been reviewed by any
applicable agency of jurisdiction, the Planning and Development Department,
and/or the Technical Advisory Committee, as appropriate, before consideration
by the Town Council.
§ 51.36 PRELIMINARY MATTERS.
   (A)   The Barrett Law statute, I.C. 36-9-36, allows municipalities to
construct sanitary sewers, street lighting, sidewalks, and storm sewers. In
each case, those benefited pay their share of the improvements over a ten-year
period, or the cost may be paid up front.
   (B)   To begin a Barrett Law sewer project, the neighborhood may request the
town’s wastewater utility to conduct an informational meeting. The utility, or
its engineer, will explain the Barrett Law process, annexation, conceptual
design, preliminary costs, and other neighborhood needs.
   (C)   If the neighborhood wishes to proceed, the Town Council will request
the Health Department to conduct a survey of the condition of the septic
systems.
   (D)   The County Sanitarian may request the Town Council initiate a Barrett
Law sanitary sewer project in a neighborhood due to failing septic systems
creating a health hazard.
§ 51.37 PETITION.
   (A)   Property owners in favor of the project shall sign and submit a
petition to the Town Council consenting to annexation and requesting
improvements be designed and constructed. The petition form is available from
the town. A minimum of 60% of the property owners in the project area must sign
the petition prior to submittal to the Town Council.
   (B)   The consent to annexation form shall be available from the town.
   (C)   A property owners’ guideline to Barrett Law sewers has been developed.
§ 51.38 TOWN COUNCIL FISCAL STUDY; ORDINANCE PROPOSAL..
   (A)   At the Town Council’s request, a fiscal study to determine the impact
of annexing the neighborhood requesting sanitary sewer service shall be
conducted.
   (B)   The Town Council shall hold a public hearing. All affected property
owners shall be notified by mail. Any affected property owner may speak at the
public hearing. The public notice format shall be available from the town.
   (C)   The Town Council shall consider:
      (1)   The petition presented by the property owners in the neighborhood;
      (2)   The Health Department’s report on septic system condition;
      (3)   Any comments from the public; and
      (4)   The health and environmental benefits versus the projected cost.
   (D)   Guidelines for the administration of the Barrett Law program and
determination of benefit and cost have been developed.
   (E)   After the Town Council considers the health and environmental benefits
and the cost of the project, it will propose or deny an ordinance to provide
sanitary sewer service and annexation for the project area. The recommendation
and proposed ordinance for sewer availability and annexation for Barrett Law
sewer construction shall be available from the town.
§ 51.39 TOWN COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Town Council shall schedule a public hearing upon the pending
sewer construction ordinance.
   (B)   The Town Council shall hear comments from the Engineer, Health
Department, and any person affected by the project.
   (C)   The Town Council shall approve or deny the ordinance request.
   (D)   If the Town Council approves the ordinance to provide sewer service,
annexation will become effective 60 days after publication in the newspaper.
Design of the sewer project will proceed immediately.
   (E)   If the Town Council denies the ordinance to provide sanitary sewer
service, the project cannot proceed for at least one calendar year.
   (F)   If the Town Council determines other improvements such as street
lighting, sidewalks, or drainage improvements must be made at the same time to
bring the neighborhood infrastructure up to current town standards, the Town
Council shall provide 50% of the funding for the additional improvements.
§ 51.40 DESIGN.
   (A)   The Town Council shall award a contract for design of the sewer
system.
   (B)   The Engineer shall prepare plans, specifications, preliminary
assessment roll, and opinion of probable cost for the project.
   (C)   The Engineer shall hold informational meetings with the property
owners to determine other necessary improvements, locate laterals, schedule
plumbing inspection, and discuss access and construction related issues.
   (D)   The Engineer shall present the final design, preliminary assessment
roll, and cost to the Town Council.
§ 51.41 PROJECT CONFIRMATION.
   (A)   The Town Council shall consider the project cost versus the health and
environmental benefits and determine if the benefits exceed the cost.
   (B)   If the benefits exceed the cost, the Town Council shall pass a
resolution (form available from the town) and schedule a public hearing.
   (C)   All property owners affected by the project shall be notified of the
public hearing.
   (D)   The Town Council shall conduct the public hearing and listen to
comments from all who wish to speak.
   (E)   If, after considering public comment as well as the health and
environmental benefits and the cost of the project, the Town Council determines
the special benefit to the property equals the estimated cost, it shall confirm
the resolution and the project shall move forward into construction.
   (F)   If the Town Council determines the special benefit is less than the
cost, the resolution shall be rescinded and the project may not proceed for at
least one year.
   (G)   If the Town Council finds the municipality is benefitted in an amount
to cover the deficiency in cost to benefit, the project resolution shall be
confirmed and the project shall move forward into construction after the Town
Council approves the necessary funding.
§ 51.42 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The project is advertised for bids according to town and state
purchasing laws and ordinances.
   (B)   After bids are received and evaluated, the Town Council shall award a
contract for construction.
   (C)   The contractor shall proceed with construction after receipt of a
notice to proceed from the Town Council.
   (D)   The Engineer shall conduct informational meetings with property owners
as needed and shall inspect the work of the contractor.
§ 51.43 PROJECT COMPLETION.
   (A)   The Engineer shall prepare the primary assessment roll for the Town
Council.
   (B)   The Town Council shall schedule a final public hearing.
   (C)   All affected property owners shall be notified of the final public
hearing by mail.
   (D)   The Town Council shall conduct the final public hearing.
   (E)   The Town Council shall hear all comments from affected property
owners.
   (F)   The Town Council shall accept or modify the assessment roll.
   (G)   The Town Council shall accept the construction as complete.
   (H)   The Town Council shall send notices to each property owner to connect
to the sewer.
§ 51.44 SEWER CONNECTIONS AND COSTS.
   (A)   The property owner shall connect to the sanitary sewer and abandon his
or her septic system within 90 days after the Town Council issues a connection
notice.
   (B)   The town shall waive the connection fee and availability fee if the
property owner connects to the sewer within the 90-day period.
   (C)   The town shall waive the street and park impact fees upon annexation
of the project area into the town.
   (D)   The property owner has the following payment options:
      (1)   Payment of the entire assessment at the completion of construction;
or
      (2)   Payment of the assessment over a ten-year period, including
interest as determined by the Town Council.
   (E) The Clerk-Treasurer shall send invoices to collect the principal and
interest due from each property owner on a monthly basis.
§ 51.45 [RESERVED]
§ 51.46 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   The Town Council shall have an independent audit made on the Barrett Law
funds once each fiscal year.
§ 51.47 BARRETT LAW MASTER PLAN.
   (A)   The Town Council shall maintain a general engineering agreement to
assist and advise the town’s wastewater utility and the Town Council on Barrett
Law sewer matters.
   (B)   The Town Council shall develop a Barrett Law master plan including
preliminary sewer design and opinion of probable cost for each unsewered,
platted subdivision in the Wastewater Service District. The Barrett Law master
plan shall be updated on an annual basis.
§ 51.48 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If a property owner does not connect to the sewer within 90 days of
receipt of connection notice:
      (1)   The connection fee and availability fee shall not be waived; and
      (2)   The town’s wastewater utility shall begin charging the property
owner the minimum monthly sewer use amount.
   (B)   If a property owner becomes delinquent in the payment of his or her
Barrett Law assessment, the town’s wastewater utility shall notify the property
owner and place a lien on the property. If the debt remains unpaid, the town
shall sell the property at a tax sale.
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned to the
town by reason of the violation in a civil action brought by the town to
recover the expense, loss, or damages.
   (B)   Any person violating §
51.07 shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
51.09 shall be guilty of a municipal ordinance violation and shall be subject
to a municipal fine as set forth in §
10.99.
   (D)   If the owner of any such property refuses to have said property
inspected and/or corrected pursuant to §
51.10, he or she shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and, upon
conviction, shall be liable for a fine as set forth in §
10.99 plus the cost of correction. Each day a violation continues after
providing written notice to the owner for compliance with this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Any person who violates §
51.17 shall be fined in an amount as set forth in §
10.99 per day of said violation.
(Ord. 3-06-1, passed 3-20-2006; Ord. 7-11-3, passed - -)
CHAPTER 52: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
Illicit Discharge and Connection
   
52.01   Purpose and intent
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Applicability
   
52.04   Stormwater utility fee
   
52.05   Ultimate responsibility
   
52.06   Discharge prohibitions
   
52.07   Suspension of MS4 access
   
52.08   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
52.09   Monitoring of discharges; access to facilities
   
52.10   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants
   
52.11   Watercourse protection
   
52.12   Notification of spills
   
52.13   Enforcement; notice of violation
   
52.14   Appeal of notice of violation
   
52.15   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
52.16   Cost of abatement of the violation
Stormwater Runoff Associated with Construction and Post-Construction Activities
   
52.30   Introduction and purpose
   
52.31   Definitions
   
52.32   Applicability
   
52.33   Submittals, review, and approval
   
52.34   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
   
52.35   Design requirements
   
52.36   Inspection
   
52.37   Enforcement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
§ 52.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose is to provide for the health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the town through the regulation of non-stormwater discharges
to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as required by
federal and state law. This subchapter establishes methods for controlling the
introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4)
in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit.
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by stormwater
discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the town’s
separate storm sewer system; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with
this subchapter.
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Structural or nonstructural practices, or
a combination of practices, designed to act as effective, practicable means of
minimizing the impacts of development and human activities on water quality.
      (1)   Traditional structural BMPs, including extended detention dry
ponds, wet ponds, infiltration trenches, and sand filtration systems, are now
common elements of most new development projects. Structural BMPs rely heavily
on gravitational settling and/or the infiltration of soluble nutrients through
a porous medium for pollutant removal.
      (2)   Nonstructural BMPs, which may be used independently or in
conjunction with structural BMPs, rely on a much wider breadth of mechanisms to
prevent or control NPS pollution. Nonstructural BMPs range from programs that
increase public awareness to prevent pollution, to the implementation of
control-oriented techniques (such as bioretention and stormwater wetlands) that
utilize vegetation to enhance pollutant removal and restore the infiltrative
capacity of the landscape.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre
or more, as defined by 327 I.A.C. 15-5-1:12 (Rule 5). Such activities include,
but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and
demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drainage
system including, but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-
stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to
enter the storm drainage system and any connections to the storm drainage
system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or
connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized
enforcement agency or, any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or
industrial land use to the storm drainage system which has not been documented
in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement
agency.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drainage system, except as exempted in §
52.06.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined by 327 I.A.C. 15-6-1:12 (Rule 6).
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE (MEP). The statutory standard that establishes
the level of pollutant reductions that operators of regulated MS4s must
achieve. The CWA requires that NPDES permits for discharges from MS4s “shall
require controls to reduce the discharge of pollutants to the maximum extent
practicable, including management practices, control techniques and system,
design and engineering methods.” This standard applies to all MS4s regulated
under the Phase I and Phase II (327 I.A.C. 15-13-1:22 (Rule 13)) Stormwater
Rules. Compliance with the conditions of 327 I.A.C. 15-13-1:22 (Rule 13) and
the series of steps associated with implementation of the required six minimum
control measures will satisfy the MEP standard. Compliance with the six minimum
control measures requires the development and implementation of BMPs.
Implementation of the BMPs includes not only the actions necessary to initiate
and continue the use of specific control measures, but also the enforcement
actions, as applicable, to ensure that the implementation of the control
measures occurs.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A conveyance or system of
conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, human-made channels, or storm drains), which
are owned or operated by a state, town, county, tribe, district, association,
or other public body or a designated and approved management agency under § 208
of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1288, that discharges into waters of
the United States.
(40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(8)).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the state’s Department of Environmental Management
(IDEM) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United
States, whether the permit is applicable to an individual, a group, or on a
general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drainage system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   NOTICE OF INTENT LETTER (NOI). A written notification indicating a person’s
intention to comply with the terms of a specified general permit rule in lieu
of applying for an individual NPDES permit and includes information as required
under 327 I.A.C. 15-3 and the applicable general permit rule.
   PERMIT HOLDER. Any person, partnership, corporation, or landowner who holds
or has been issued an NPDES stormwater discharge permit.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid, solid, and yard wastes; refuse,
rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances,
and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution;
floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and
wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals;
animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   RECEIVING WATERS. Rivers, streams, lakes, or any body of water into which
wastewater is discharged.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned permit holder by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
   STORMWATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEMS. All storm sewer pipes, ditches, catch basins,
and other structures including retention and detention facilities.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A document which describes the
best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or
business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the
actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges into stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   TOWN’S WASTEWATER UTILITY. Employees or designees of the Director of the
town’s wastewater utility designated to enforce and administer this subchapter.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
   WATERCOURSE. A conduit through which water flows, a natural body of running
water flowing on or under the earth, or a natural or artificial channel through
which water flows.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES. A term used in federal regulations that defines
all water bodies regulated as waters of the United States including:
      (1)   All waters which may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign
commerce;
      (2)   All interstate waters, including interstate wetlands;
      (3)   All other waters, such as intrastate lakes, rivers, streams
(including intermittent streams), mud flats, sandflats, wetlands, sloughs,
prairie potholes, wet meadows, playa lakes, or natural ponds, the use,
degradation, or destruction of which could affect interstate or foreign
commerce including any such waters;
      (4)   All impoundments of waters otherwise defined as waters of the
United States;
      (5)   Tributaries of waters identified in this section;
      (6)   The territorial seas; and
      (7)   Wetlands adjacent to waters.
§ 52.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all landowners, permit holders, developers,
or other entities in possession of real estate located within the town which
either:
   (A)   Directly discharges into a regulated drain established by the County
Drainage Board, pursuant to I.C. 36-9-27; or
   (B)   Directly discharges into a street drain located within the town.
§ 52.04 STORMWATER UTILITY FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a monthly stormwater utility fee to be
charged to all owners of real estate within the corporate limits of the town
for the use of and services provided by the stormwater utility of the town.
   (B)   For residential real estate, the monthly stormwater utility fee shall
be a flat customer charge of $5 per month.
   (C)   For non-residential real estate, the monthly stormwater utility fee
shall be a flat customer charge of $5 per month.
   (D)   If the monthly stormwater utility fee is not paid by the due date
stated on the bill, a late charge of 10% will be assessed, together with costs
of collection, if any, including reasonable attorney fees.
   (E)   The monthly stormwater utility fee as herein set forth shall become
effective and payable beginning with the September, 2011 billing month.
   (F)   This section was in full force and effect from and after its passage
and any publication and notice as required by law.
(Ord. 7-11-2, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 52.05 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this subchapter
are intended to comply with the NPDES permit issued to the town. However,
nothing herein shall be construed to ensure that there will be no
contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants into the
waters of the United States.
§ 52.06 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illicit discharges. No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drainage system or watercourses any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater. The following discharges are exempt from
discharge prohibitions established by this subchapter:
      (1)   Water line flushing or other potable water sources, landscape
irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground water, ground
water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water,
foundation or footing drains (not including active ground water dewatering
systems), crawl space pumps, sump pumps, air conditioning condensation,
springs, non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or
wetland flows, swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than one PPM
chlorine), fire fighting activities, and any other water source not containing
pollutants;
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement
agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
      (3)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test; and
      (4)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit,
waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered
under the authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided
that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit,
waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that
written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drainage
system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drainage system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
town’s wastewater utility may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, to the health or welfare of persons, to the MS4, or
waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension
order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such
steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4, to the
waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this subchapter may have his or her MS4
access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the
proposed termination of its MS4 access. In the event of suspension, the
violator may petition the Town Council for a reconsideration and hearing.
§ 52.08 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the town’s wastewater utility prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
§ 52.09 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES; ACCESS TO FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The town’s wastewater utility shall be permitted to enter and
inspect the premises of a permit holder subject to regulation under this
subchapter as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this
subchapter.
      (2)   If a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the
authorized enforcement agency.
   (B)   Facility operators shall allow the town’s wastewater utility ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an
NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional
duties as defined by state and federal law.
   (C)   The town’s wastewater utility shall have the right to install and
maintain on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary, in the
opinion of the authorized enforcement agency, to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the facility’s stormwater discharge.
   (D)   (1)   The town’s wastewater utility may require the discharger to
install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and
monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition by the discharger at its own expense.
      (2)   All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be
calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the town’s wastewater utility and
shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
operator.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the town’s wastewater utility access
to a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of
this subchapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit
to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense
if the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the
permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or
required by this subchapter.
   (G)   If the town’s wastewater utility has been refused access to any part
of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he or she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
subchapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this
subchapter or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public
health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement
agency may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent
jurisdiction.
§ 52.10 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS.
   The town’s wastewater utility will adopt requirements identifying best
management practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause
or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drainage
system, or waters of the United States. The owner or operator of a commercial
or industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drainage system or watercourses through the use of
these structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illegal discharge,
may be required to implement, at said person’s expense, additional structural
and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
§ 52.11 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning or occupying property through which a watercourse passes
shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within the property free
of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other substances that would pollute
or contaminate the flow of water. In addition, the owner or lessee shall
maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
§ 52.12 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release
of materials which are resulting, or may result, in illicit discharges or
pollutants discharging into stormwater, the storm drainage system, or water of
the United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release.
   (B)   (1)   In the event of such a release of hazardous materials said
person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence
via emergency dispatch services.
      (2)   In the event of a release of an illicit discharge, said person
shall immediately notify the authorized enforcement agency.
      (3)   If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial
or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three
years.
§ 52.13 ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a
requirement of this subchapter, the Town Council may order compliance by
written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require
without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   The violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of remediation costs; and/or
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
§ 52.14 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the
determination of violation to the Town Council.
   (B)   The notice of appeal must be received within seven days from the date
of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the authorized
enforcement officer shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of
the notice of appeal.
§ 52.15 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If any violation of this subchapter has not been corrected as set forth in a
notice of violation, within 15 days of said notice, or the exhaustion of any
appeal, the Town Council may, but is not required to, take all measures
necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. The costs of
abatement or restoration shall be assessed against the owner of the property
and may be filed as a lien against the property in the amount of the
assessment, or reduced to a judgment lien.
§ 52.16 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within 15 days after the town’s wastewater utility taking action to abate a
violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement,
including administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest
objecting to the amount of the assessment within ten days. If the amount due is
not paid within 30 days of the decision or by the expiration of the time in
which to file an appeal, the town may file a civil action to collect said
costs, plus interest and reasonable attorney’s fees.
STORMWATER RUNOFF ASSOCIATED WITH CONSTRUCTION AND POST-CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
§ 52.30 INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   During the construction process, soil is highly vulnerable to erosion
by wind and water. Eroded soil endangers water resources by reducing water
quality and causing the siltation of aquatic habitat for fish and other
species. Eroded soil also necessitates repair of sewers and ditches and the
dredging of lakes. In addition, clearing and grading during construction cause
the loss of native vegetation necessary for terrestrial and aquatic habitat.
Following the completion of construction activities, dust, dirt, and erosion
will continue to affect the stormwater facilities and receiving streams unless
post-construction practices are put in place during the construction and
maintained in perpetuity.
   (B)   As a result, the purpose of this subchapter is to safeguard persons,
protect property, and prevent damage to the environment in the town. This
subchapter will also promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating, and
controlling the design, construction, use, and maintenance of any development
or other activity that disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in the
movement of earth in the town.
   (C)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish minimum stormwater
management requirements and controls to protect and safeguard the general
health, safety, and welfare of the public residing in watersheds within this
jurisdiction. This subchapter seeks to meet that purpose through the following
objectives:
      (1)   Minimize increases in stormwater runoff from any development in
order to reduce flooding, siltation, and streambank erosion and maintain the
integrity of stream channels;
      (2)   Minimize increases in nonpoint source pollution caused by
stormwater runoff from development which would otherwise degrade local water
quality;
      (3)   Minimize the total annual volume of surface water runoff which
flows from any specific site during and following development to not exceed the
pre-development hydrologic regime to the maximum extent practicable; and
      (4)   Reduce stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, and
nonpoint source pollution, wherever possible, through stormwater management
controls and to ensure that these management controls are properly maintained
and pose no threat to public safety.
§ 52.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tiles. For the purposes of this
subchapter, the term does not include land disturbing activities for the
construction of agricultural-related facilities such as barns, buildings to
house livestock, roads associated with infrastructure, other infrastructure,
agricultural waste lagoons and facilities that process residential, workshop,
or human wastes, and lakes, pond, and wetlands; and other infrastructure.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). See §
52.02.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land disturbing activities and land disturbing
activities associated with the construction of infrastructure and structures.
This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor
landscaping projects.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. A representation of a project site and all activities
associated with the project. The plan includes the location of the project
site, buildings, and other infrastructure, grading activities, schedules for
implementation, and other pertinent information related to the project site. A
stormwater pollution prevention plan is a part of the CONSTRUCTION PLAN.
   CONTRACTOR or SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the project
site owner, by an individual lot owner, or by an individual lot operator to
perform services on, or connected to, the project site or individual lot.
   DEVELOPER. Any person financially responsible for construction activity; or
an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any lots
in a subdivision.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice, or gravity.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of
practices, to control erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   EROSION CONTROL. A measure that prevents erosion.
   LAND DISTURBANCE OR LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human-made change of the
land surface, including removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying
soil, excavating, filling, transporting, and grading.
   MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, one-half inch of
rainfall.
   PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
   PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit the NOI letter per 327
I.A.C. 15-5 and required to comply with the terms of this subchapter and 327
I.A.C. 15-5, including a developer; or a person who has financial and
operational control of construction activities and project plans and
specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and
specifications.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its place of origin by air, water,
gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth’s surface.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Measures that prevent sediment from leaving the project
site.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the surface of the
earth that serves as the natural medium for the growth of plants.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT (SWCD). A political subdivision
established under I.C. 14-32.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan developed to minimize
the impact of stormwater pollution resulting from construction and post-
construction activities. The plan indicates the specific measures and
sequencing to be used to control sediment, soil erosion, and other construction
site wastes during and after construction.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
   TECHNICAL REVIEW AND COMMENT FORM. A form issued by the town’s wastewater
utility stating that the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan is adequate or
stating revisions needed in the SWPPP.
   TOWN’S WASTEWATER UTILITY. Employees or designees of the Director of the
town’s wastewater utility designated to enforce this subchapter.
   TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of stormwater quality, including erosion and sediment control as may
be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification, experience,
or completion of coursework that enable the individual to make judgments
regarding stormwater control or treatment and monitoring.
   WATER QUALITY VOLUME (WQv). The storage needed to capture and treat 90% of
the average annual stormwater runoff volume. Numerically, WQv will vary as a
function of long-term rainfall statistical data.
§ 52.32 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The requirements under this subchapter are in compliance with 327
I.A.C. 15-5 (Rule 5) and apply to all persons meeting the requirements of 327
I.A.C. 15-5-2. In general, this subchapter requires the control of polluted
runoff from construction sites with a land disturbance greater than or equal to
one acre, or disturbances of less than one acre of land that are part of a
larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will
ultimately disturb one or more acres of land.
   (B)   The requirements under this rule do not apply to persons who are
involved in agricultural land disturbing activities or forest harvesting
activities.
   (C)   The requirements under this rule do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable permits contain provisions requiring
immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10;
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34; and
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Department under 329 I.A.C. 10 that contains
equivalent stormwater requirements, including the expansion of landfill
boundaries and construction of new cells either within or outside the original
solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   In addition to the requirements of this subchapter, stormwater
pollution prevention plans shall be developed in accordance with the current
town standards and specifications to ensure that established water quality
standards will be maintained during and after development of the site, and that
post- construction runoff levels are consistent with any local and regional
watershed plans.
§ 52.33 SUBMITTALS, REVIEW, AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   A technical review and comment form stating that the “Plan is
Adequate” and an improvement location permit shall be obtained prior to the
initiation of any land disturbing activities.
   (B)   A complete stormwater pollution prevention plan and erosion and
sediment control plan shall be submitted in triplicate to the town’s wastewater
utility.
   (C)   At the time of submittal, the date and time will be recorded.
   (D)   Each application shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner
or developer of the project site, and of any consulting firm retained by the
applicant together with the name of the applicant’s principal contact at such
firm and shall be accompanied by a filing fee, included in the schedule of fees
of the town.
   (E)   Each application shall include a statement that any land clearing,
construction, or development involving the movement of earth shall be in
accordance with the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan. The town’s wastewater
utility will review each application for a Rule 5 permit to determine its
conformance with the provisions of this chapter. Within 28 days after receiving
an application, the town’s wastewater utility shall, in writing:
      (1)   Approve the erosion and sediment control plan and SWPPP, provide a
technical review and comment form stating that the “Plan is Adequate”, and
issue an improvement location permit;
      (2)   Approve the erosion and sediment control plan and SWPPP, subject to
such reasonable conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the
objectives of this regulation, and issue the technical review and comment form
stating that the “Plan is Adequate” and issue an improvement location permit;
or
      (3)   Provide a technical review and comment form stating that the “Plan
is Deficient” and indicating the reason(s) and procedure for submitting a
revised application and/or submission.
   (F)   Failure of the town’s wastewater utility to act on an original or
revised application within 28 days of receipt shall authorize the applicant to
proceed in accordance with the plans as filed unless such time is extended by
agreement between the applicant and the Town Council.
   (G)   The sufficiency of the construction plans shall be based upon Rule 5
regulations and the design criteria described in the current town standards and
specifications.
   (H)   After receiving a technical review and comment form stating that the
“Plan is Adequate”, if revisions to the construction plans require a change in
measures appropriate to control the quality or quantity of stormwater runoff,
then revised plans must be submitted to the town’s wastewater utility.
   (I)   The applicant will be required to file with the town, a performance
bond, letter of credit, or other improvement security in an amount deemed
sufficient by the town to cover all costs of improvements, landscaping
maintenance of improvements for such period as specified by the town, and
engineering and inspection costs to cover the cost of failure to repair
improvements installed on the project site.
   (J)   After receiving a technical review and comment form stating that the
“Plan is Adequate” from the town’s wastewater utility, and at least 48 hours
prior to the start of construction, the following shall be submitted to the
state’s Department of Environmental Management and town’s wastewater utility:
      (1)   Notice of intent form (required by 327 I.A.C. 15-5);
      (2)   A copy of the technical review and comment form stating that the
“Plan is Adequate”; and
      (3)   Proof of publication required by 327 I.A.C. 15-5-5(9).
   (K)   The project site owner must submit a notice of termination (NOT)
letter to IDEM and transmit a copy of the NOT letter to the town’s wastewater
utility when all land disturbing activities have been completed, the entire
project site has been stabilized, and all temporary erosion and sediment
control measures have been removed.
§ 52.34 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.
   The Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) including erosion and
sediment control measures shall meet the requirements contained in the state’s
Stormwater Quality Manual.
§ 52.35 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Erosion and sediment control measures shall be designed and installed
in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 15-5-1:12 (Rule 5), the town’s Standards Manual,
and the state’s Stormwater Quality Manual. Unless judged by the town’s
wastewater utility to be exempt or granted a waiver, the following performance
criteria shall be addressed for stormwater management at all sites.
      (1)   All site designs shall establish stormwater management practices to
control the peak flow rates of stormwater discharge associated with specified
design storms and reduce the generation of stormwater. These practices should
seek to utilize pervious areas for stormwater treatment and to infiltrate
stormwater runoff from driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots, and
landscaped areas to the maximum extent practical to provide treatment for both
water quality and quantity.
      (2)   All stormwater runoff generated from new development shall not
discharge untreated stormwater directly into a jurisdictional wetland or waters
of the United States without adequate treatment. Where such discharges are
proposed, the impact of the proposal on wetland functional values shall be
assessed using a method acceptable to the jurisdictional stormwater authority.
In no case shall the impact on functional values be any less than allowed by
the Army Corp of Engineers (ACE) or the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.
      (3)   Annual ground water recharge rates shall be maintained, by
promoting infiltration through the use of structural and nonstructural methods.
      (4)   For new development, structural BMPs shall be designed to remove
80% of the average annual post development total suspended solids load (TSS).
It is presumed that a BMP complies with this performance standard if it is:
         (a)   Sized to capture the prescribed water quality volume (WQv);
         (b)   Designed according to the specific performance criteria outlined
in the local stormwater design manual;
         (c)   Constructed properly; and
         (d)   Maintained regularly.
   (B)   A list of pre-approved post-construction BMPs along with procedures to
be followed for approval of innovative BMPs or BMPs not in the pre-approved
list are provided in the town standards and specifications.
§ 52.36 INSPECTION.
   (A)   A self-monitoring program is required during construction. A trained
individual shall prepare and maintain a written evaluation of the project site
by the end of the next business day following each measurable storm event and
at a minimum, one time per week.
   (B)   The evaluation must address the maintenance of existing stormwater
quality measures to ensure they are functioning properly; and identify
additional measures necessary to remain in compliance with all applicable
statutes and rules.
   (C)   Written evaluation reports must include the following:
      (1)   The name of the individual performing the evaluation;
      (2)   The date of the evaluation;
      (3)   Problems identified at the project site; and
      (4)   Details of corrective actions recommended and completed.
   (D)   All evaluation reports for the project site must be made available to
the inspecting authority within 48 hours of a request.
   (E)   All persons engaging in construction activities on a project site must
comply with the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, this subchapter, and the
town standards and specifications.
   (F)   The town’s wastewater utility will perform inspections and provide
recommendations to evaluate the installation, implementation, and maintenance
of control measures and management practices at any project site involved in
construction activities. Construction project sites will be prioritized based
on the nature and extent of the construction activity, topography, the
characteristics of soils, and receiving water quality.
§ 52.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Written notification. In the event the town’s wastewater utility or
other regulatory agency determines the project is not in compliance with this
subchapter or the town drainage standards and specifications, the project site
owner will be issued a written notification form. The written notification may
be in the form of a warning letter of noncompliance or violation notice.
   (B)   Restitution. Any agency charged with enforcement of this subchapter,
under division (A) above, may after a five-day notice, enter a construction
site in order to construct, repair, or replace any erosion control device to
reduce or remediate stormwater runoff from the site. The enforcement agency may
recover the direct cost of such remediation activities, in addition to the
penalties assessed above in this section.
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In the event that any person holding a site development permit
pursuant to this chapter violates the terms of the permit or implements site
development in such a manner as to materially adversely affect the health,
welfare, or safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood or
development site so as to be materially detrimental to the public welfare or
injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood, the Director of the
town’s wastewater utility may suspend or revoke the site development permit.
   (C)   Any site owner who violates §
52.37(A) and has not corrected a deficiency within five days after written
notification shall be subject to penalty as set forth in §
10.99.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Application
   
70.03   Snow removal
Enforcement and Administration
   
70.15   Enforcement, Town Marshal’s duties
   
70.16   Required obedience
   
70.17   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
70.18   Certain nonmotorized traffic to obey traffic regulations
   
70.19   Authorized emergency vehicles
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.30   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Manual and specifications for traffic-control devices
   
70.32   Official traffic-control devices; presumption of legality
   
70.33   Council to designate crosswalks and establish safety zones
   
70.34   Traffic lanes
Violations
   
70.45   Notice of violation
   
70.46   Disposition of traffic fines and forfeitures
   
70.47   Passenger endangerment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council.
   LOADING ZONE. A space reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers or property.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
town.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Municipal Police Department, or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   TRAFFIC COMMITTEE. The TRAFFIC COMMITTEE shall consist of the Town Marshal,
Town Engineer, Street Commissioner, and an appointee of the Town Council from
its membership.
§ 70.02 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this title relating to the operation of vehicles refer
exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways except where
a different place is specifically referred to in a given section.
§ 70.03 SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle or other obstruction to be parked
on either side of Main Street, Kirklin, Indiana, between the hours of 12:00
midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any snow day.
   (B)   A snow day is defined as any day on which snow has accumulated to a
depth of more than two inches during the previous 24-hour period.
   (C)   Any person violating this ordinance shall be fined the sum of $100 for
each such violation.
   (D)   In addition to any other penalty, the Town Marshal of the town or his
deputy, may determine to have any vehicle parked in violation of division (A)
above, towed to a safe location at the expense of the owner of said vehicle.
(Ord. 2-96-1, passed 2-13-1996)
ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 70.15 ENFORCEMENT, TOWN MARSHAL’S DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Marshal to enforce the street traffic
regulations and all state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this
town; to make arrests for traffic violations; to investigate all traffic
accidents and make reports on a standard accident report form; to maintain a
standard system of filing accident records and records of all arrests and
warnings; to direct other officers of the town in the administration of the
traffic laws and in developing ways to improve traffic conditions; to file an
annual report with the Council concerning the number of traffic accidents,
moving violations, parking violations, arrests, and other data on the traffic
activities of his or her office; and to carry out those duties specially
imposed upon said office by this title.
   (B)   The Marshal may authorize the temporary placing of official traffic-
control devices when required by an emergency or Council direction. The Marshal
shall notify the Council of his or her action as soon thereafter as is
practicable in writing.
   (C)   The Marshal is hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of a
fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
the Marshal or police officers may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
§ 70.16 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE.
   It is an infraction for any person to do any act forbidden, or fail to
perform any act required, in this traffic code.
§ 70.17 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this title shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles
owned or operated by the United States or any political subdivision of the
state, subject to such specific exceptions as are set forth in this title or in
the State Vehicle Code.
§ 70.18 CERTAIN NONMOTORIZED TRAFFIC TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling any push cart upon a roadway shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle by this title and by the rules of the road portion of the State
Vehicle Code, except those provisions which by their very nature can have no
application.
§ 70.19 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may park
or stand irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to park or stand with due regard for the safety
of all persons, nor shall such provision protect the driver from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Council shall have placed and maintained official traffic-control
devices to make the provisions of ordinances effective, and may place and
maintain such additional official traffic-control devices as the Council may
deem necessary to regulate, warn, or guide traffic under the traffic ordinances
of this town or the State Vehicle Code.
§ 70.31 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, markings, and devices shall conform to
the latest edition of the state’s Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for
Streets and Highways prepared by the Indiana Department of Highways (IDOH).
§ 70.32 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence. Any official traffic-control devices placed pursuant to the
provisions of this traffic code and purporting to conform to the lawful
requirements pertaining to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the
requirements of this traffic code, unless the contrary shall be established by
competent evidence.
   (B)   The location of all traffic-control devices shall be specified in
Chapter 74 as from time to time amended by resolution of the Council, duly
adopted.
§ 70.33 COUNCIL TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS AND ESTABLISH SAFETY ZONES.
   The Council is hereby authorized to designate and maintain, by appropriate
devices, marks, or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at
intersections where, in the opinion of the Council, there is particular danger
to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at such other places as the Council may
deem necessary; and to establish safety zones of such kind and character and at
such places as the Council may deem necessary for the protection of
pedestrians.
§ 70.34 TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Council is hereby authorized to have agents mark traffic lanes upon the
roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
VIOLATIONS
§ 70.45 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever a person is charged with a violation of this traffic code, he or
she shall be given notice of such charge by an appropriate notice served
personally or placed in or upon a vehicle stopped or parked in violation of any
provision hereof.
§ 70.46 DISPOSITION OF TRAFFIC FINES AND FORFEITURES.
   All traffic fines and forfeitures collected by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be
deposited in the General Fund.
§ 70.47 PASSENGER ENDANGERMENT.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle within the town which creates a
danger, or a potential danger, to any passenger of such motor vehicle commits
an infraction of passenger endangerment.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Speed regulations
   
71.02   Turning movements
   
71.03   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.04   Stop and yield intersections
   
71.05   Limitation on backing
   
71.06   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.07   Muffler requirement
   
71.08   When permits required for parades and processions
   
71.09   Loads dropping or leaking; removal required; tracking mud
§ 71.01 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be
applicable upon all streets within this town, except as this traffic code
hereby declares and determines upon the basis of engineering and traffic
investigations by the Traffic Committee that certain speed regulations shall be
applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas. In which event it shall
be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed
so declared in this traffic code when proper signs are in place.
   (B)   Upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation by the
Traffic Committee, maximum speed limits are hereby determined and declared
reasonable and safe on the streets (or parts to streets), described in
Chapter 74, Schedule I, as from time to time amended by resolution of the
Council duly adopted, when signs are erected giving notice thereof.
   (C)   The Council may, by motion, establish temporary reduced speed limits
within construction zones within the town.
   (D)   The Street Department, upon consultation with the Town Engineer, shall
conspicuously post signs informing the public of the reduced speeds within the
construction zones.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   The Council is hereby authorized to determine those intersections at
which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-turn and shall
place proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in
which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be
removed when such turns are permitted.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon any street.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and those alleys described by the town, as from time to
time amended by resolution duly adopted, vehicular traffic shall move only in
the indicated direction when proper signs indicating the direction of traffic
are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
§ 71.04 STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   Those streets, parts of streets, stop intersections, and yield intersections
described in
Chapter 74, Schedule II, as from time to time amended by resolution duly
adopted, are hereby declared to be through streets, stop intersections, or
yield intersections for the purpose of this chapter.
§ 71.05 LIMITATION ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, roller skates, sled,
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon
a roadway.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 MUFFLER REQUIREMENT.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in the town without an effective
muffler properly installed, nor shall any vehicle be operated in town upon
which is installed, or being used, any motor noise muffler device which fails
to suppress the motor exhaust noise to a level equal to or below the noise
volume achieved by the muffler equipment specified by the manufacturer of such
motor vehicle.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 WHEN PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   No procession or parade containing 50 or more persons or 25 or more vehicles
except the Armed Forces of the United States, the military forces of this state
or the forces of the Police Department, shall occupy, march, or proceed along
any street except in accordance with a permit issued by the Marshal. Request
for said permit shall be made no less than two working days preceding said
event.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING; REMOVAL REQUIRED; TRACKING MUD.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, highway, or other
public place unless so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its
load from dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except
that sand or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing
traction and water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in
cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway, unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of it from spilling.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle or equipment so as to track or
drop mud, stones, gravel, or other similar material on any street, highway, or
other public place.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the driver of a vehicle who unlawfully drops
or deposits mud, stones, gravel, or other similar material or permits the load
or any portion thereof to be dropped or deposited upon any street, highway, or
other public place to immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Angle parking
   
72.02   Towing vehicles
Stopping, Standing, or Parking Prohibited in Specified Places
   
72.15   Motor vehicles must park between lines
   
72.16   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
72.17   Parking in alleys
   
72.18   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited, no signs required
   
72.19   No stopping, standing, or parking near hazardous or congested places
   
72.20   Temporary parking prohibition
Stopping For Loading or Unloading Only
   
72.35   Council to designate loading zones
   
72.36   Loading zone usage
   
72.37   Truck parking restrictions
   
72.38   Council to designate public carrier stops and stands
   
72.39   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
   
72.40   Handicap parking
Stopping, Standing, or Parking Restricted or Prohibited on Certain Streets
   
72.55   Application of subchapter
   
72.56   Traffic-control devices required
   
72.57   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
72.58   Parking prohibited during certain hours on certain streets
   
72.59   Parking time limited on certain streets
   
72.60   Acts to evade the parking time limitation on certain streets prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HEAD-IN. The front of the motor vehicle shall be nearest the curb.
   (B)   The Council shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall be
permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, but such angle parking shall not
be indicated upon any state highway within this town unless the Indiana
Department of Highways (IDOH) has determined that angle parking shall be
permitted.
   (C)   Any and all motor vehicles utilizing an angle parking space shall
utilize such space by head-in parking.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 TOWING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Marshal, a stopped, standing, or
parked vehicle in violation of the provisions of this traffic code constitutes
an immediate hazard to the safety of citizens or flow of traffic, the Marshal
may have said vehicle towed from such position of danger to a containment area
and the expense of such towing and storage, if any, shall be borne by the owner
of said vehicle.
   (B)   The Marshal is hereby authorized to move or cause to be moved and
properly stored, at the owner’s expense, any vehicle improperly parked, parked
overtime, or abandoned if, after reasonable effort, the owner or operator of
such vehicle cannot be found or refuses or fails, upon proper notification, to
move such vehicle.
   (C)   Vehicles that have two or more outstanding violations of 60 days or
more delinquency shall be subject to be towed, at the owner’s expense, to a
secure facility and held in such facility until the delinquent violations have
been satisfied.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall stop, stand, or cause to be parked an unattached
trailer of any variety on any public street, alley, or roadway in a
residentially zoned alley except for vehicles when used in conjunction with
public utility repairs or maintenance with their utilities.
      (2)   Exceptions may be granted on a temporary basis for street booths
and concessions when in conjunction with an approved activity also exempted.
STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES
§ 72.15 MOTOR VEHICLES MUST PARK BETWEEN LINES.
   All motor vehicles parked at a location upon a public thoroughfare within
the corporate limits of the town that is marked a parking space, shall be
parked in a manner which will cause them to be located within the lines of a
defined parking space.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.16 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than 18 feet of the width of the
roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.17 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than 12 feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.18 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED, NO SIGNS REQUIRED.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of or between sidewalk and curb or immediately opposite a
public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any intersection, flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of said entrance (when properly signposted);
   (I)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (J)   Within 30 feet of any railway crossing; and
   (K)   At any place where official signs or markings so designate.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.19 NO STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The Council is hereby authorized to determine and designate, by proper
signs, places in which the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles would
create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to
traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
   (C)   The Street Commissioner is hereby authorized to place signs and paint
curbs in an appropriate manner to identify to the public the prohibition
against parking as stated herein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.20 TEMPORARY PARKING PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Parking may be temporarily limited or prohibited from time to time for
special occasions and to meet emergencies upon authority of the Marshal, who is
hereby given authority for such limitation and prohibition of parking.
   (B)   All vehicles shall observe such prohibition and limitations when
proper signs have been erected or placed indicating such prohibition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY
§ 72.35 COUNCIL TO DESIGNATE LOADING ZONES.
   The Council is authorized to determine the location of loading zones and
shall have placed and maintained appropriate signs indicating the same and
stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are applicable.
§ 72.36 LOADING ZONE USAGE.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery, or pick-
up and loading, of property in any place marked as a loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may stop temporarily at a loading zone for the
purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when
such stopping does not interfere with any vehicle which is waiting to enter or
about to enter such zone to load or unload property.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.37 TRUCK PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   Commercial vehicles of two tons capacity or more, or commercial vehicles
more than 20 feet in length shall not park within the residential or business
district on public rights-of-way of this town except for the purpose of loading
or unloading.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.38 COUNCIL TO DESIGNATE PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   (A)   The Council is authorized and required to establish bus stops, bus
stands, taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common carrier motor
vehicles on such public streets, in such places, and in such number as it shall
determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public.
   (B)   Every such bus stop, bus stand, taxicab stand, or other stand shall be
designated by appropriate signs.
§ 72.39 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when such stop or stand has
been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of
a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of, and while
actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does
not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter such
zone.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.40 HANDICAP PARKING.
   (A)   The Marshal is hereby authorized to establish handicap parking spaces
within the public rights-of-way and/or parking lots owned, operated, or
controlled by the town now or hereafter.
   (B)   No person shall cause to be parked, within a designated disabled
parking place, a motor vehicle which is not occupied or driven by a person who
is disabled and who has an appropriate license, permit, or other device issued
by the state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles confirming such designation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, any disabled
person shall be entitled to use a disabled parking place as it has been so
designated by the Marshal and should such an individual receive a ticket for
improper parking as hereinafter provided, proof of his or her disability shall
be deemed an absolute defense upon presentation of a letter or other document
from a physician attesting to his or her disabled condition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS
§ 72.55 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the stopping, standing, or
parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein
specified or as indicated on official signs; except when it is necessary to
stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or official traffic-control device.
§ 72.56 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED.
   No prohibition, regulation, or limitation relating to stopping, standing, or
parking imposed under this chapter or ordinance of this town shall be effective
unless official traffic-control devices are erected and in place at the time of
any alleged offense.
§ 72.57 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.58 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.59 PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
for longer than the time specified.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.60 ACTS TO EVADE THE PARKING TIME LIMITATION ON CERTAIN STREETS
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall change, alter, or remove any marking placed on any vehicle
by an employee of the town which is placed on the vehicle for the purpose of
enforcing, or attempting to enforce, the provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Use of coasters, skateboards, roller skates, and the like restricted
Bicycles
   
73.15   Traffic ordinances apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.16   Riding on bicycles
   
73.17   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.18   Attaching bicycles to poles
   
73.19   Parent/guardian responsibilities
Golf Carts
   
73.30   Purpose
   
73.31   Definitions
   
73.32   Operation requirements generally
   
73.33   Observance of traffic regulations mandatory
   
73.34   Permit required
   
73.35   Proof of liability insurance
   
73.36   Standard equipment regulations
   
73.37   Times of operation
   
73.38   Operation regulations
   
73.39   Sidewalks and adjacent areas
   
73.40   Unlawful careless operations
   
73.41   Towing
   
73.42   Trespassing on private property
   
73.43   Exceptions
   
73.44   Streets upon which golf carts may be operated
   
73.45   Town liability
   
73.46   Effective date
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 USE OF COASTERS, SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, AND THE LIKE RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, skateboards, or riding in or by means of any
coaster, toy vehicle, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street, and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
Penalty, see §
73.99
BICYCLES
§ 73.15 TRAFFIC ORDINANCES APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by this traffic code; except as to special regulations in this chapter and
except as to those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature can
have no application.
§ 73.16 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the number
for which it is designed or equipped; except that an adult rider may carry a
child securely attached to his or her person in a backpack or sling, or
approved child seat.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle or skateboard upon a sidewalk within a
zoned business district when such conduct shall constitute a hazard to the
safety of pedestrians.
   (B)   The Marshal is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, and when such signs
are in place no person shall disobey the same.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of- way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.18 ATTACHING BICYCLES TO POLES.
   (A)   Any person may park near and secure a bicycle to any publicly owned
pole or post for a period of not more than 12 consecutive hours, unless an
official traffic-control device or any applicable law or ordinance prohibits
parking or securing bicycles at that location.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be secured to any fire hydrant.
   (C)   No bicycle shall be secured in any manner so as to impede the normal
and reasonable movement of pedestrian or other traffic.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 PARENT/GUARDIAN RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this traffic code.
Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to establish a golf cart ordinance
within the town to ensure the safety and the welfare of persons operating cart
(s) within the town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license issued to operate a motor vehicle issued
by a state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for a motor vehicle operated on
public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 25 mph.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.32 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
   No person shall operate a golf cart or four-wheel utility vehicle with a
bench seat in the town except as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.33 OBSERVANCE OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS MANDATORY.
   (A)   All applicable state laws regarding motor vehicles shall be adhered
to, including the possession and use of alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs.
   (B)   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town which governs the operations of
motor vehicles.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.34 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No golf cart shall be operated in the town unless a permit from the
Town Marshal or his or her appointee has been issued to the owner of said golf
cart. The permit received from the town must be with the golf cart whenever it
is operated in the town. The permit is good for one calendar year within which
it is issued and shall be renewed annually. The fee for said permit will be $25
for initial inspection and permit and then the fee will be $10 for each
calendar year thereafter that the golf cart is registered. Prior to any initial
or renewal permit being issued, the golf cart shall be inspected by the Town
Marshal or his or her appointee to make sure said golf cart complies with the
requirements set forth by the town and the state. There shall be no permit
issued if, in the previous year, the applicant was cited and convicted of any
violations set forth by the town or state.
   (B)   A lost or stolen permit/sticker is the responsibility of the owner. A
police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/sticker.
The Town Marshal will have the discretion in determining whether a permit/
sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found of a
previous application or a receipt of a permit/sticker, the Town Marshal may
direct the applicant to re-apply and also resubmit any and all fees necessary
before a replacement permit/sticker may be issued.
   (C)   Any person who operates a golf cart in the town and fails to receive
and properly display a town permit/sticker will be subject to all applicable
state laws in addition to being in violation of this section.
   (D)   Golf cart owners must complete the attached registration form, wavier
of liability form, and provide a copy of the proof of liability insurance prior
to the golf cart being inspected. The completed forms and proof of insurance
will be maintained by the Town Marshal’s Department.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.35 PROOF OF LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   As part of the permit process, the owner of the golf cart must provide proof
of liability insurance before a permit will be issued. The proof of insurance
must be with the golf cart whenever said golf cart is in operation. Proof of
insurance liability must be provided annually in order to renew the golf cart
permit.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.36 STANDARD EQUIPMENT REGULATIONS.
   All golf carts shall be equipped with the following:
   (A)   Brakes that are in good working condition;
   (B)   DOT approved slow moving vehicle sign on the back of the golf cart;
   (C)   The golf cart shall also have a bicycle safety flag on a staff holder
to put such flag at least five feet above the surface of the street;
   (D)   Golf cart shall be equipped with a rear view mirror;
   (E)   Golf cart shall be equipped with a manufacturer’s serial number plate;
   (F)   Golf cart shall have front and rear reflectors;
   (G)   Golf cart shall have rear working brake lights which are visible from
a distance of 500 feet; and
   (H)   Any other equipment that may be defined by the state and/or the town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.37 TIMES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Carts may be driven on roads only from sunrise to sunset unless the
cart is equipped with two headlights (one on each side of the front of the
cart) and two operating tail lights with brake lights (one on each side of the
rear of the cart) which are visible from a distance of 500 feet.
   (B)   Golf carts are prohibited on streets during inclement weather when
visibility is reduced or impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions
or at any other time there is insufficient light to clearly see a person or
vehicle on a roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.38 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply to the operation of a golf cart within the
town.
   (A)   Golf carts will adhere to all traffic flow patterns and will operate
on the right side of the roadway.
   (B)   Operators of golf carts will adhere to all rules of the road
applicable to motorized vehicles as set forth by the state’s Bureau of Motor
Vehicles.
   (C)   A golf cart may be operated by persons who are:
      (1)   At least 16 years of age and possess a valid driver’s license;
      (2)   If the operator is over the age of 16 years old and qualifies for a
handicapped parking space, he or she may operate a golf cart on public streets
upon the submission of a certificate signed by a licensed physician that the
driver is able and capable to operate a motorized golf cart on the roadways
designated. The operator must have the certificate and handicap parking tag in
his or her possession while operating a motorized golf cart; and
      (3)   A person under the age of 16 years old may not legally drive a golf
cart on any town streets, roadways, or alleys.
   (D)   All riders in the golf cart must remain seated at all times.
   (E)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number
of adult persons for whom individual seating is installed and provided on the
golf cart. The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and
no part of the body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside the
perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is in motion.
   (F)   Children in golf carts must be accompanied by an adult driver and must
follow all requirements of this section; except the capacity limits as long as
all children are seated and no part of the body of the child extends beyond the
sides of the golf cart.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.39 SIDEWALKS AND ADJACENT AREAS.
   (A)   No golf cart shall be operated upon the public sidewalk nor upon that
portion of the street located between the curb line and the sidewalk or
property line referred to as the “parking” except for the purposes of crossing
the same to a public street upon which operation is authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   Two golf carts may use one parking space provided they both park
within the parking space lines.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.40 UNLAWFUL CARELESS OPERATIONS.
   No person(s) shall operate a golf cart in a careless, reckless, or negligent
manner so as to endanger the person or property of another or to cause injury
or damage thereto.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.41 TOWING.
   No item shall be towed by a golf cart. The only exception to this will be
for town parades, festivals, and special events.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.42 TRESPASSING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Golf carts shall not be operated on private property without the permission
and written consent of the property owner.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.43 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All town employees are exempt from the above rules and regulations
when using a golf cart for town business.
   (B)   Exceptions will be made to the rules and regulations at the discretion
of the Town Marshal during town parades, festivals, and/or special events.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.44 STREETS UPON WHICH GOLF CARTS MAY BE OPERATED.
   (A)   Golf carts may be operated on all town streets.
   (B)   Golf carts are prohibited on the following streets except to cross
said streets:
      (1)   U.S. 421 (Main Street); and
      (2)   State Road 38(Jefferson/Pike Street).
      (3)   Exception to this will be as follows: during town parades,
festivals, and/or special events.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.45 TOWN LIABILITY.
   (A)   The town, Town Council, Town Clerk-Treasurer, Town Police Department,
and all town employees will assume no liability after issuing of said golf cart
permit.
   (B)   The town cannot be held responsible for any operator actions while
operating the golf cart on town streets, roadways, and/or alleys.
   (C)   The town cannot be held responsible for any deaths, injuries, or any
other damage that may occur from operator error or malfunction of the golf cart
on any street, roadway, or alley in the town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.46 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter was full force and effect 30 days after publication or
summary thereof in the official newspaper of the town as provided by law.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any act constituting a violation of §§
73.30 through
73.46 or a failure to comply with any of its requirements shall subject the
offender, upon conviction, to a fine not to exceed $250. Each day that any of
the provisions of §§
73.30 through
73.46 are violated shall constitute a separate offense and the subject will be
charged an additional $25 per day plus $20 for court costs. All fees will be
made payable to the town and paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   Truck routes
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   All vehicles traveling in any direction on State Road 38 shall observe
and comply with the speed limits as posted.
   (B)   All vehicles traveling in any direction on Highway 421 shall observe
and comply with the speed limits as posted.
   (C)   All vehicles traveling in any direction on any street or alley within
the corporate boundaries of the town, where a speed limit has not been
otherwise established by an ordinance of the town, shall not travel at a speed
in excess of 20 mph.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of no less than $100 and no more than $2,500
for each offense.
(Ord. 8-11-14-B, passed 8-11-2014)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this schedule is to regulate compliance with the stop
signs directing the flow of traffic on public streets within the town for the
protection of public health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   Wherever a stop sign is erected at or near an intersection, and duly
ordained by an ordinance of the Town Council, every driver of a vehicle shall
come to a complete stop:
      (1)   Parallel to the stop sign;
      (2)   Before a marked stop line; or
      (3)   Before a marked crosswalk prior to cautiously entering into the
intersection, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police
officer, in which every driver shall comply with the direction of the police
officer.
   (C)   An officer of the Town Police Department may issue a citation for a
failure to comply with a duly erected stop sign within the corporate boundaries
of the town.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of no less than $25 and no more than $2,500
for each offense.
Intersection Street That Yields or Stops
Intersection                                  Street That Yields or Stops
750 South (Elizaville Road) and State Road 38 Elizaville
Adams and Illinois                            Illinois
Adams and Main                                Adams
Adams and Pike                                Adams
Clay and Illinois                             Illinois
Clay and Main                                 Clay
Clay and Perry                                Clay
Clay and Pike                                 Clay
Francis and Ohio                              Ohio
Francis and Ohio                              Ohio
Harrison and Main                             Harrison
Harrison and Perry                            Harrison
Howard and Jefferson                          Howard
Illinois and Jefferson                        Illinois
Illinois and Jefferson                        Illinois
Illinois and Madison                          Illinois
Jackson and Main                              Jackson
Jefferson and Clinton                         Clinton
Jefferson and Main                            Jefferson
Kirk and Main                                 Kirk
Madison and Perry                             Madison
Main and Adams                                Adams
Main and Frances                              Frances
Main and Frances                              Frances
Main and Madison                              Traffic light
Main and Stowers                              Stowers
Main and Stowers                              Stowers
Monroe and Illinois                           4-way stop
Monroe and Main                               Monroe
Monroe and Perry                              Monroe
Monroe and Perry (Yield)                      Monroe
Monroe and Pike                               Monroe
Monroe and State Road 38                      Monroe
Ohio and Adams                                Ohio
Ohio and Clay                                 Clay
Ohio and Harrison                             4-way stop
Ohio and Jefferson                            Ohio
Ohio and Jefferson                            Ohio
Ohio and Madison                              Ohio
Ohio and Madison                              Ohio
Ohio and Monroe                               4-way stop
Ohio and Monroe                               4-way stop
Ohio and Ross                                 4-way stop
Ohio and Stowers                              4-way stop
Ohio and Stowers                              4-way stop
Ohio and Washington                           Washington
Perry and Harrison                            Intersection
Perry and Jefferson                           Perry
Pike and Jefferson                            Pike
Pike and Jefferson                            Pike
Pike and Madison                              Madison
Pike and Monroe                               Monroe
Pike and Monroe                               Monroe
Pike and Ross                                 3-way stop
Pike and Ross                                 3-way stop
Pike and Stowers                              Stowers
Pike and Stowers                              Stowers
Ross and Illinois                             Illinois
Ross and Main                                 Ross
Washington and Illinois                       Illinois
Washington and Main                           Washington
Washington and Perry                          Washington
Washington and Pike                           Washington
Washington and Pike                           Washington
 
(Ord. 8-11-14-C, passed 8-11-2014; Am. Ord. 2017-1-1, passed 1-9-2017)
SCHEDULE III. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The following streets or sections of streets are hereby designated as
truck routes, to-wit: Ross Street; Washington Street from Perry Street to Pike
Street; Harrison Street from Perry Street to Pike Street; Clay Street from Ohio
Street to Pike Street; Jefferson Street; Madison Street from Main Street to
Howard Street; Adams Street from Perry Street to Pike Street; Jackson Street
from Main Street to its east end; Perry Street; Illinois Street from Ross
Street to Washington Street; Main Street; Ohio Street from Washington Street to
Jefferson Street; Pike Street from Washington Street south to its end; and
Howard Street.
   (B)   No truck or tractor/trailer combination weighing in excess of ten tons
shall be operated on any street in the town unless said street has been
designated by the town as a truck route.
   (C)   Violation of this schedule shall subject the offender to a fine as set
forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 7-90-1, passed 7-10-1990; Ord. 12-07-2, passed 12-10-2007)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
93.   PUBLIC PROPERTY AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY; PARKS
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Provisions supplemental to state regulations
   
90.002   Definitions
   
90.003   Wild or exotic animals
   
90.004   Motor vehicle caused injuries
   
90.005   Animals that bite; reporting
General Care
   
90.020   Appropriate shelter
   
90.021   Hitching or tying
   
90.022   Food and water
   
90.023   Vaccination; tags
   
90.024   Medical care, generally
   
90.025   Removal of excrement
   
90.026   Sanitation
   
90.027   Restraint
   
90.028   Animals in vehicles
   
90.029   Owner obligations; dangerous animals
Prohibited Conduct
   
90.045   Cruelty
   
90.046   Fighting
   
90.047   Poisonous bait
   
90.048   Abandonment
   
90.049   Destruction of animals
   
90.050   Hauling dead animals
   
90.051   Noisy dogs
   
90.052   Feeding birds prohibited
   
90.053   Enticing animals of another
   
90.054   Livestock prohibited
   
90.055   Animal sacrifice
Registration and Permits
   
90.070   Prohibited animal permit
   
90.071   Inspection
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 PROVISIONS SUPPLEMENTAL TO STATE REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter supplement all laws of the state covering the
same subject matter.
§ 90.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. To deposit, leave, drop off, or otherwise dispose of any live
domestic animal without providing immediate humane care on any public or
private property.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been operated on to prevent it from
procreating.
   ANIMAL CONCESSION. Any spectacle, display, act, or event, other than
circuses, in which animals are used.
   ANIMAL SACRIFICE. The injuring or killing of any animal in any religious, or
cult, ritual or as an offering to a deity, devil, demon, spirit, or any other
type of offering wherein the animal is not killed for food purposes, regardless
of whether all or any part of such animal is subsequently consumed.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by a humane society incorporated under
the laws of the state, municipal agency, or its authorized agents, for the
purpose of impounding animals under the authority of this chapter or state law
for care, confinement, return to owner, adoption, or euthanasia.
   ANIMAL WELFARE ORGANIZATION. Any not-for-profit organization for the
prevention of cruelty to animals incorporated under the laws of the state.
   AT LARGE. Any animal off the premises of the person owning, keeping, or
harboring such animal and while off such premises, not under control of such
person or person’s family member either by leash, cord, chain, or other
physical restraint.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold, or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this section or state
law.
   BREEDER. Any person who intentionally or accidentally allows the breeding of
an animal or makes an animal available for breeding purposes, or any person who
offers for sale, sells, trades, receives other compensation, or gives away any
litter of animals; excepting a litter of animals taken to the Department of
Animal Control.
   CATTERY. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling
cats.
   CRIME PREVENTION ANIMAL. An animal trained and used primarily by its owner
for the protection of property.
   DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL CONTROL. The municipally owned facility established for
the purpose of animal control, care, and disposition.
   GROOMING SHOP. A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped,
plucked, or otherwise groomed.
   GUIDE DOGS. Dogs trained to assist the handicapped.
   HARBORING.
      (1)   The actions of any person that permits any animal to habitually
remain, lodge, or to be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard,
place of business, or any premises on which such person resides or controls.
      (2)   An animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for
three or more consecutive days.
   HUMANE OFFICER. Any person designated by the state, a municipal government,
or a humane society as a law enforcement officer who is qualified to perform
such duties under the laws of the state.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
keeping, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling
dogs.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT ANIMAL. Any dog or horse owned by any law enforcement agent
and used in law enforcement under the guidance and authority of a municipal,
county, town, or state law enforcement agency.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Interferes with passersby or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals or persons;
      (3)   Trespasses on school grounds or other public property;
      (4)   Is at large or unrestrained;
      (5)   Damages private or public property;
      (6)   Barks, whines, howls, or makes other sounds common to its species
in excess; or
      (7)   Is offensive or dangerous to public health, safety, or welfare by
virtue of the number and/or types of animals maintained.
   RABIES VACCINATION. The injection, by a licensed veterinarian, of a dog or
cat with a rabies vaccine licensed by the U.S.D.A. and approved by the State
Board of Animal Health.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal secured by a leash or lead, or under the physical
control of the animal’s owner or attending party, or within the real proper
limits of its owner.
   RIDING SCHOOL or STABLE. Any place which has available for hire, boarding,
or riding instruction any horse, pony, donkey, mule, or burro.
   RITUAL SLAUGHTER. The preparation and humane killing of any animal for food
purposes in accordance with state guidelines.
   RODEO. A performance featuring bronco riding, steer wrestling, calf roping,
greased pig contest, or bull riding.
   SLAUGHTER. The humane killing of any animal for food purposes.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any living vertebrate animal normally found in the wild state.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. Any permanent facility or operation, other than a pet shop,
displaying or exhibiting one or more species of exotic or wild animals,
operated by a person, partnership, corporation, or government agency.
§ 90.003 WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   No wild or exotic animal shall be kept within the town limits without
necessary state and/or federal permits.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 MOTOR VEHICLE CAUSED INJURIES.
   Any person operating a motor vehicle who causes injury or death to a
domestic animal shall stop at once, assess the extent of injury, and
immediately notify the owner, animal control shelter, or Town Police Department
of the location of the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 ANIMALS THAT BITE; REPORTING.
   (A)   (1)   The person responsible for any animal which has bitten a person
or another animal must report the incident to the Marshal.
      (2)   Upon receiving the report of a bite, the Marshal will quarantine
the animal for ten days with the place of confinement to be at the discretion
of the Marshal. During the quarantine period, the animal is to be securely
confined and kept from contact with any other animal or person.
   (B)   During the quarantine period, the owner must provide a current rabies
vaccination certificate for his or her animal that is being quarantined. If
proof of vaccination cannot be supplied, the animal will be vaccinated by a
veterinarian at the owner’s expense before release.
   (C)   No person, other than a humane officer or veterinarian, shall kill or
cause to be killed any animal suspected of being rabid except in cases of
immediate self-protection. If that occurs, the person will retain the body and
immediately notify the Department of Animal Control.
Penalty, see §
90.999
GENERAL CARE
§ 90.020 APPROPRIATE SHELTER.
   No person shall confine or allow his or her animal to remain outside without
access to appropriate shelter, which shall be defined as the following.
   (A)   The doghouse must be weatherproof and have a protected entrance (wind
break) or a flexible flap.
   (B)   The doghouse must contain bedding that resists dampness, such as straw
or cedar chips, during the winter season (between November 1 and March 31 or
when real temperature is 45°F or lower).
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.021 HITCHING OR TYING.
   No animal shall be hitched, tied, or fastened by any rope, chain, or cord
that is directly attached to the animal’s neck. Animals that must be tied,
hitched, or fastened to restrain them must wear a properly fitted collar or
harness made of leather or nylon, not of the choker type. This is not to
prohibit the proper use of choke collars in the training of animals. A person
may not restrain an animal by a fixed point chain or tether less than ten feet
for more than eight hours in a 24-hour period unless the chain or tether is at
least ten feet long, has swivels at each end, and is attached to a pulley or
trolley mounted cable at least ten feet in length and mounted no more than
seven feet above ground level. Any outside caged or penned animal or dog shall
be kept in a cage or pen no less than ten feet by ten feet by four feet in
size, equaling a 100 square foot roaming area.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 FOOD AND WATER.
   All animals shall have fresh, potable drinking water and be provided with
food that is nutritional for the species in adequate amounts to maintain good
health.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.023 VACCINATION; TAGS.
   Cats and dogs over the age of six months must be vaccinated by a licensed
veterinarian for rabies. Cats and dogs must be vaccinated yearly and must wear
a current rabies tag at all times attached to a properly fitted collar or
harness. Cats which are routinely kept inside a residential structure are
exempt from wearing a tag and collar while inside. This exemption does not
apply when said cat is outside the residential structure.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 MEDICAL CARE, GENERALLY.
   All animals shall be provided with necessary medical care in addition to the
required rabies vaccination.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.025 REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT.
   Persons responsible for an animal shall immediately remove the animal’s
excrement from public lands or from the property of another, excepting a blind
person working with a guide dog.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.026 SANITATION.
   All animals shall be kept in a sanitary manner. No dog or animal shall be
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement. The
persons responsible for the animal shall regularly, and as often as necessary
to prevent odor or health and sanitation problems, maintain all animal areas or
areas of animal contact.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.027 RESTRAINT.
   All animals shall be properly restrained.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.028 ANIMALS IN VEHICLES.
   (A)   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions in
that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal.
   (B)   No animal shall be transported in any open vehicle unless confined in
an appropriate manner intended to prevent the animal from jumping from the
vehicle or being thrown from the vehicle in the event of an accident, rapid
stop, or other use of the vehicle which could cause injury to the pet.
§ 90.029 OWNER OBLIGATIONS; DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONFINEMENT. Confinement to an area from which the animal may not escape
or which would not allow the animal to attack a person. CONFINEMENT must be
such as will prevent an animal from harassing humans and may not constitute
either a sight, smell, or noise nuisance.
      DANGEROUS ANIMALS/VICIOUS ANIMALS/VORACIOUS ANIMALS. Any animal with the
propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack, to cause injury, or to
otherwise threaten the safety of human beings or domestic animals, or which
attacks or shows aggressive or threatening behavior towards a human being or
domestic animal without provocation.
      RUN AT LARGE. To be loose upon property, without consent of the owner or
without direct and responsible human control and supervision.
   (B)   General regulations.
      (1)   No person having ownership or custody of an animal shall:
         (a)   Permit an animal to run at large or to destroy, deface, or
defecate on the property of another without his or her consent;
         (b)   Keep any animal which disturbs the peace and quiet or which
detracts from the use, enjoyment, or value of other properties;
         (c)   Keep any animal which attacks, runs after, barks at, growls at,
or threatens in any way to attack domestic animals or any person who is engaged
in lawful pursuits;
         (d)   Permit any animal to interfere with the normal use of public
areas;
         (e)   Fail to confine any animal in heat; and/or
         (f)   Keep any wild animal not authorized by state law.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to incite or encourage animals to
fight.
      (3)   Any person who allows an animal to remain on his or her premises
shall be considered harboring such animal.
   (C)   Recognize an enforcement of related state animal control laws.
      (1)   In addition to any other requirements, state laws governing animal
control are noted and shall be enforced by the town, including among others:
         (a)   Not permitting a dog to go beyond the owner’s premises unless
under reasonable control of some person;
         (b)   I.C. 35-46-3-1 prohibiting the harboring of a dog more than six
months of age which has not been vaccinated against rabies; and/or
         (c)   I.C. 35-46-4-7 prohibiting cruelty or neglect to animals.
      (2)   All town residents shall obtain appropriate dog tags confirming
vaccination against rabies and shall not change, alter, counterfeit, or imitate
any such dog tags, nor sell or offer to sell any such dog tag.
      (3)   Any town law enforcement officer is authorized to destroy any
dangerous, vicious, or voracious animal which cannot be safely captured or kept
in custody by usual and available means which is observed to be attacking a
person or domestic animal.
      (4)   The Police Department shall immediately report all known animal
bites to the County Health Officer.
      (5)   No person shall possess within the town limits a dangerous,
vicious, or voracious animal.
(Ord. 10.14.2013B, passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 2024-7-5, passed 7-8-2024) Penalty,
see §
90.999
PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 90.045 CRUELTY.
   No person shall beat, cruelly treat, neglect, torment, overload, overwork,
or otherwise abuse any animal except that reasonable force may be employed to
drive off dangerous or trespassing animals.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.046 FIGHTING.
   No person shall permit or conduct any dogfight, cockfight, or other combat
between animals and humans.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.047 POISONOUS BAIT.
   (A)   No person shall set any type of poisonous substance or bait within the
town limits that is deemed harmful to any domestic animal.
   (B)   Provided, however, that controlled programs under the direction of the
County Board of Health, Town Council, or a license extermination service may be
excluded from the restrictions of this section.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.048 ABANDONMENT.
   No person shall abandon any animal anywhere within the town limits.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.049 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS.
   No person may destroy any domestic animal within the town limits; provided,
however, this provision shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   A licensed veterinarian;
   (B)   Those persons acting in immediate self-protection; or
   (C)   Town police officers or firemen acting to prevent undue suffering.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.050 HAULING DEAD ANIMALS.
   No person shall haul dead animals over or along the streets of the town
without first securely and completely covering the dead animal in such a manner
as to screen or hide the same from public view.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.051 NOISY DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall allow the continual barking, yelping, whining, or
howling of a dog.
   (B)   The Marshal may take steps immediately to correct the situation and
cause the noise to be abated, either through issuance of a citation, or
impounding the animal if no owner or agent can be found at the time of
disturbance.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.052 FEEDING BIRDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except park employees or persons acting
with the permission of park employees, to feed, scatter food, or leave food of
any type or kind in the parks, playgrounds, playfields, parkways, boulevards,
and streets of this town for birds, pigeons, or other fowl.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.053 ENTICING ANIMALS OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, not so authorized, to enter or
invade the private premises of another, to capture, entice, or take any animal
off of the enclosure or premises of the owner, or to seize any such animal
anywhere while such animal is accompanied by its owner, keeper, or custodian.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to entice any animal away from the premises of
the person owning or keeping such animal, or to entice any animal from any
street, alley, or public place in this town with the intention of depriving the
owner of the possession thereof, except as authorized in this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to bring within the town any animal for the
purpose of impounding or other disposition thereof, or collecting any fee or
reward for the return thereof, except as provided in this section.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.054 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   LIVESTOCK is defined as animals of any kind that are kept, fed, and/or
raised by a person, partnership, or corporation for any use or purpose and may
include, but is not limited to, fur bearing, meat, dairy, show, and draft
animals such as cattle, swine, sheep, or goats. However, the term LIVESTOCK
shall not include any domesticated animals such as dogs and cats.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, or corporation to
keep any livestock within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 10-4-1, passed 10-11-2004; Ord. 12-04-2, passed 12-13-2004) Penalty, see
§
90.999
§ 90.055 ANIMAL SACRIFICE.
   No person shall engage in, participate in, assist in, or perform animal
sacrifice. No person shall own, keep, possess, or harbor any animal with the
purpose or intention of using such animal for animal sacrifice.
Penalty, see §
90.999
REGISTRATION AND PERMITS
§ 90.070 PROHIBITED ANIMAL PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person owning or keeping a prohibited animal as a pet may be
issued a prohibited animal permit.
   (B)   Issuance of the permit will be subject to approval of the Marshal. All
permit holders shall take care to keep and house the animals in a sanitary
manner. Appropriate medical services and housing shall be according to
individual breeds.
§ 90.071 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of, or perform any duty imposed by, this section or when there is
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any
premises any violation of the provisions of this chapter or state law, the
police officer is authorized at all reasonable times to inspect the same for
compliance with the provisions of this section or any state law; provided that
the officer shall comply with all laws and regulations governing the entry on
and into private property.
   (B)   In the event the police officer has reasonable cause to believe that
the keeping or maintaining of an animal is so hazardous, unsafe, or dangerous
as to require immediate inspection to safeguard the animal or the public health
or safety, the officer shall first present proper credentials and request entry
explaining the reasons therefor. If entry is refused or cannot be obtained
because the owner or other person having charge or control of the property
cannot be found after reasonable search, the office shall have recourse to
secure lawful entry and inspection of the property in accordance with the laws
of the state.
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The fine for any violation of §
90.029 shall be not more than $2,500 for each day of violation.
      (2)   The town may seek an injunction under I.C. 36-1-6-4 to enjoin a
violation.
   (C)   A violation of §
90.054 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $300.
Each day that such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 10-4-1, passed 10-11-2004; Ord. 10.14.2013B, passed 10-14-2013)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Purpose
   
91.002   Applicability
   
91.003   Conflicting provisions
   
91.004   Minimum standards
   
91.005   Definitions
Administration
   
91.020   Fire Prevention Bureau established
   
91.021   Fire Prevention Bureau organization
   
91.022   Fire scene authority
   
91.023   Emergency lines and limits
   
91.024   Emergency entry
   
91.025   Liability
   
91.026   Fire investigations
   
91.027   Fire and life safety inspections
Enforcement
   
91.040   Enforcement authority
   
91.041   Violations
   
91.042   Imminent danger
   
91.043   Duty to correct violations
   
91.044   Appeal from orders
   
91.045   Variances; appeal
   
91.046   False reporting
   
91.047   Practical difficulties
Water Supply
   
91.060   Water mains
   
91.061   Required water supply for fire protection
   
91.062   Fire hydrants
Fire Department Access
   
91.075   Alert decals
   
91.076   Marking
   
91.077   Fire protection equipment identification
   
91.078   Obstructions to Fire Department access
   
91.079   Exterior doors
   
91.080   Traffic signals
   
91.081   Fire apparatus access
   
91.082   Timing of installation
   
91.083   One or two-family residential developments
   
91.084   Security caps
   
91.085   Turning radius
   
91.086   Dead-ends
   
91.087   Abatement of hazards
   
91.088   High-rise fire safety plan
Fire Protection Systems and Equipment
   
91.100   Commercial kitchen exhaust and fixed fire suppression systems
   
91.101   Fire extinguishers
   
91.102   Plans for fire protection equipment
   
91.103   Fire alarm systems
   
91.104   Sprinkler systems
   
91.105   Smoke detectors
   
91.106   Fire protection system removal
   
91.107   Private emergency alarm system
   
91.108   Class 1 standpipe systems
Fireworks
   
91.120   Public displays of fireworks
   
91.121   Consumer fireworks
Controlled Burning
   
91.150   Open burning
   
91.151   Responsibilities
   
91.152   Exemptions
   
91.153   Variances
   
91.154   Conditions for exemptions and variances
   
91.155   Enforcement
General Precaution Against Fire
   
91.170   Gaslights
Inspections
   
91.185   Right to enter
   
91.186   Scope of inspections
   
91.187   Inspection approval
   
91.188   Occupant information
   
91.189   Stop work order
   
91.190   Liability for damages
   
91.191   Wall rough inspections
   
91.192   Hindrance to inspections
   
91.193   Underground inspections
Automatic External Defibrillators
   
91.205   Automatic external defibrillators
   
91.206   Placement requirements
   
91.207   Exceptions
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prescribe regulations consistent with
nationally-recognized standards for the protection of life, environment, and
property from fire, explosions, and hazards arising from the storage, handling,
and use of hazardous substances, from conditions hazardous to life or property
in the use or occupancy of new or existing buildings and premises, and to
establish appropriate administrative procedures for the enforcement of this
chapter.
§ 91.002 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this Fire Prevention Code shall be supplemental to
the Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana Mechanical Code, and
Indiana Fuel Gas Code as adopted by the State Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to maintenance of fire
prevention and life safety features as herein described. The provisions of this
chapter shall apply to existing conditions as well as to the conditions arising
after the adoption thereof.
   (C)   Buildings, systems, uses, processes, and equipment legally in
existence on the effective date of this chapter shall be permitted to continue
so long as they are maintained in a condition that is equivalent to the quality
and fire-resistive characteristics that existed when the building was
constructed, altered, added to, or repaired.
§ 91.003 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   When any provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any
building, zoning, safety, health, or other applicable law or ordinance of the
town existing on the effective date of this code or hereafter adopted, the
provision which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and
protection of the safety and welfare of the public shall prevail.
§ 91.004 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   All rules of the state Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission
as set out in 675 I.A.C. 13, 18, 22, and 25 are hereby incorporated in this
Fire Prevention Code and shall include later amendments to that article as the
same are published in the Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code
with effective dates as fixed therein.
   (B)   Any special processes or procedures not addressed in the Indiana Fire
Code (675 I.A.C. 22) or this chapter shall be subject to applications found in
Fire Safety Standards recognized by Indiana Fire Code (675 I.A.C. 22)
referenced standards and as approved by the Fire Chief of the Town Fire
Department.
   (C)   Any special processes or procedures not addressed in this chapter
shall be subject to applications found in the current editions of the National
Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards or other recognized fire safety
standards, subject to the rules of the state’s Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission.
   (D)   A copy of these standards shall be available in the Town Fire
Inspection Division for inquiry and review by the members of the public during
normal business hours.
§ 91.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPROVED. Acceptable to the Fire Chief.
      AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATOR (AED). A computerized medical device
which can check a person’s heart rhythm, recognize a rhythm that requires a
shock, advise a rescuer when a shock is needed, and uses voice prompts, lights,
and text messages to tell the rescuer the steps to take.
      BUILDING CODE. Indiana Building Code (675 I.A.C. 13).
      BURNING. To be on fire, to give forth light and heat during combustion,
or to be charred or scorched by action of fire or heat.
      CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Buildings and structures as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-4.
      CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Buildings and structures as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-5.
      COMPLIANCE AFFIDAVIT CARD. A card that is issued with a notice of
violation wherein the property owner, manager, or other responsible person
states that compliance with the notice of violation has been attained.
      CONSUMER FIREWORKS. As defined by I.C. 22-11-14.
      EMERGENCY VEHICLE LANE or FIRE LANE. A road or other passageway developed
to allow the passage of fire apparatus. An EMERGENCY VEHICLE LANE is not
necessarily intended for vehicular traffic other than fire apparatus.
      FAAP. A fire alarm annunciator panel.
      FACP. A fire alarm control panel.
      FIRE. The combustion of material other than deliberate combustion for
cooking, heating, recreation, incineration, or purposes incidental to normal
operation of a property.
      FIRE APPARATUS. Vehicles (e.g., pumpers, aerial ladder trucks, elevated
platforms, rescues, squads, ambulances, administrative vehicles) or other
firefighting or rescue equipment.
      FIRE CHIEF. Fire Chief of the Town Fire Department.
      FIRE CODE. Indiana Fire Code (675 I.A.C. 22).
      FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Town Fire Department.
      FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS ROAD. A road that provides fire apparatus access
from a fire station to a facility, building, or portion thereof. This is a
general term inclusive of all other terms such as fire lane, public street,
private street, parking lot lane, and access roadway.
      FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION (FDC). A connection through which the Fire
Department can pump water into a standpipe and/or sprinkler system.
      FIRE EXIT HARDWARE. Panic hardware that is listed for use on fire-rated
door assemblies.
      FIRE FLOW. The flow rate of a water supply (measured at 20 pounds per
square inch (PSI) residual pressure) which is available for firefighting.
      FIRE HAZARD. Any act or thing which increases, or may increase, the
possibility or menace of fire to a greater degree than that customarily
recognized as normal by the Town Fire Department; or which may obstruct, delay,
hinder, or interfere with the operations of the Fire Department or the egress
of occupants in the event of fire.
      FPBSC. The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state as
established by I.C. 22-12-2-1.
      FUEL GAS CODE. Indiana Fuel Gas Code (675 I.A.C. 25).
      GAR. General Administrative Rules (675 I.A.C. 12) of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building and Safety Commission.
      GARBAGE. Food wastes such as fruit, vegetables, meat, cooking greases,
dried cereal, bread, beverages, and semi-solid waste resulting from processing,
handling, preparation, and cooking of dead animals, animal waste, and the like.
      GAS LIGHT. Any lighting device that utilizes a flammable or combustible
gas (or liquid) to fuel an open flame.
      HAZARDOUS CONDITION. The presence of a structural condition, equipment,
utility connection, or materials that constitute or pose a recognized threat of
fire or other injury to persons or property.
      I.A.C. Indiana Administrative Code.
      I.C. Indiana Code of the Indiana General Assembly.
      INSPECTION. Visual inspection of a building, system, design, or
installation to verify that it meets the standards of all applicable codes of
the jurisdiction, and/or is in acceptable operating condition and free of
defects.
      JURISDICTION. Fire service district consisting of the town.
      KFD.  Kirklin Fire Department.
      KNOX COMPANY. A private organization that supplies the rapid entry
systems for the town.
      MECHANICAL CODE. Indiana Mechanical Code (675 I.A.C. 18).
      NFPA. National Fire Protection Association (publishes the volumes of the
National Fire Codes).
      NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A written notice issued by the Fire Department
usually in the form of an inspection report listing violations.
      NOTIFICATION DEVICE. A fire alarm system component that provides audible
and/or visual notification upon activation of a fire alarm initiating device.
      OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION. As defined by the Indiana Building Code (675
I.A.C. 13).
      OCCUPANT LOAD. The number of persons for which the means of egress of a
building or portion thereof is designed.
      ORDER. A written report that orders the property owner, occupant, or
tenant to cease and correct identified violations of the Indiana Building Code,
Indiana Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel Gas Code, or this Fire Prevention Code.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS. Supervised display of Class 1.3G fireworks
(non-consumer fireworks) which requires a permit from the state under I.C. 22-
11-14-2.
      RUBBISH. Any substance that is not readily combustible such as rubber,
oily liquids, cloth, plastics, glass, metal, aluminum, and leather.
      TESTING. A functional test of all components to verify proper operation
of the system, design, installation, or use.
      TRASH. Something readily flammable that would not emit toxic or offensive
substances or would emit them in quantities too small to be annoying or
dangerous to health or safety.
      WALL ROUGH INSPECTION. A new construction inspection required by the Town
Planning Department prior to installing gypsum board, paneling, or other
acceptable material on unfinished walls.
      YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass, weeds, brush, and the like.
   (B)   Where terms are not defined in this Fire Prevention Code and are
defined in the Indiana Building Code, Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Mechanical
Code, or Indiana Fuel Gas Code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to
them as in those codes. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the
context implies.
ADMINISTRATION
§ 91.020 FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a local Fire Prevention Bureau within the Town
Fire Department which shall have jurisdiction within the Town Fire Services
District.
§ 91.021 FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU ORGANIZATION.
   The Fire Prevention Bureau of the town shall be under the supervision of the
Council.
§ 91.022 FIRE SCENE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, at any fire, explosion, rescue, emergency medical,
hazardous materials incident, or any other emergency which poses imminent
threat to life, environment, or property, shall have the authority to direct
operations as necessary to control, mitigate, or eliminate the emergency.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to impede the emergency operations
of the Town Fire Department.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.023 EMERGENCY LINES AND LIMITS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, may establish emergency lines
and limits, and barricade or guard from the general public such emergency lines
and limits.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may create an area in which only firefighters, law
enforcement personnel, other emergency responders, or other people or agencies
having a direct interest in any property threatened by a fire, explosion,
hazardous material incident, other emergency, other people, or agencies, at the
discretion of the Fire Chief, shall be admitted. It shall be unlawful for any
unauthorized person to cross such emergency lines or limits.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.024 EMERGENCY ENTRY.
   The Fire Department shall have the authority to enter any building or
premises without permission or warrant in the event of an emergency situation
constituting a threat to life, property, or the public safety for the purpose
of eliminating, controlling, or abating the hazardous condition or situation.
§ 91.025 LIABILITY.
   At no time will the Town Fire Department or any of its agents be responsible
for any damages as a result of an emergency entry. The Fire Department will
notify the owner, occupant, or tenant of such an event and it will be the
responsibility of the owner, occupant, or tenant to assure that the building is
re-secured.
§ 91.026 FIRE INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Fire Chief shall perform fire investigations pursuant to I.C. 36-8-17.
The Fire Chief is authorized to conduct an origin and cause investigation of
all fires and explosions within the service district of the Town Fire
Department. It shall be unlawful for any person to impede the Fire Chief, from
conducting an origin and cause investigation.
§ 91.027 FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY INSPECTIONS.
   The Fire Chief shall conduct fire and life safety inspections in Class 1
structures pursuant to I.C. 36-8-17. The Fire Chief shall inspect Class 1
structures as often as necessary for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any violation of the Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code,
Indiana Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel Gas Code, this Fire Prevention Code, or
any other Fire Safety Code of the jurisdiction.
ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.040 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall possess the authority to enforce the provisions
of this Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to enforce provisions of the
Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel
Gas Code, this Fire Prevention Code, or any other code of the jurisdiction
within the town. Such enforcement shall include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The prevention of fires;
      (2)   The handling, storage, sale, and use of flammable liquids,
explosives, combustible, and hazardous materials;
      (3)   The adequacy of means of egress from all places in which numbers of
people live, work, or congregate from time to time for any purpose;
      (4)   The location, installation, and maintenance of smoke alarms, fire
alarm systems, and fire suppression systems; and
      (5)   The existence of recognized hazardous conditions that present a
clear and immediate hazard to life and property.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to institute legal actions in
cases of noncompliance. The Fire Chief, shall have the authority to issue
citations covering the violations of the Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building
Code, Indiana Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel Gas Code, this Fire Prevention
Code, or any other Fire Safety Code of the jurisdiction. Violators of these
codes may be cited into the court having jurisdiction.
§ 91.041 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a duly authorized member of the Fire Department determines by
inspection that a violation of the Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code,
Indiana Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel Gas Code, this Fire Prevention Code, or
any other Fire Safety Code of the jurisdiction or a hazardous condition exists
upon any Class 1 structure within the town, he or she shall issue such notice
of violation or order as may be necessary for the enforcement.
§ 91.042 IMMINENT DANGER.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, or his or her designee, may stop the
operation or require the evacuation of any Class 1 structure or portion thereof
under the provisions of I.C. 36-8-17-9 when it is determined that conduct or
conditions of the property: present a clear and immediate hazard of death or
serious bodily injury to any person other than a trespasser; and/or is
prohibited without a permit, registration, certification, authorization,
variance, exemption, or other license required under I.C. 22-14 or another
statute administered by the Department of Fire and Building Services and the
license has not been issued; or, will conceal a violation of law.
§ 91.043 DUTY TO CORRECT VIOLATIONS.
   The owner or person in control of any premises or building upon which a
violation or hazard exists shall:
   (A)   Cease and correct the violation;
   (B)   Protect persons and property from the hazards of the violation and
correct the violation; and
   (C)   Require persons to leave the area that is affected by a violation and
prohibit people from entering the area until the violation is corrected.
§ 91.044 APPEAL FROM ORDERS.
   An owner or occupant who remains aggrieved by an order or decision issued
pursuant to this Fire Prevention Code, and the matter involves a rule of the
state Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, he or she may appeal to
the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set forth by I.C.
36-8-17.
§ 91.045 VARIANCES; APPEAL.
   (A)   An owner or occupant requesting a variance from state adopted fire and
building laws as set forth by I.C. 22-13-2-11 shall apply for the variance with
the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission in accordance with
the 675 I.A.C. 12-5-1:9 (Rule 5) (General Administrative Rules).
   (B)   An owner or occupant requesting a variance from a specific provision
of this Fire Prevention Code or an appeal from a notice of violation or order
that are not part of the state’s adopted fire and building laws as set forth by
I.C. 22-13-2-11 shall apply in writing to the Chief within five working days of
the date of the notice of violation or order. The granting of a variance shall
be considered only upon the written application of the owner of the property
stating that:
      (1)   Practical difficulties have been encountered in the implementation
of specific requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   Compliance with specific requirements of this chapter will cause
unnecessary hardship to the owner; and
      (3)   The owner desires to take advantage of new methods or equipment
which are recognized as adequate for the purpose for which they are to be
substituted.
   (C)   A variance may be granted only if the Fire Chief determines in writing
that:
      (1)   The requested modification will conform to fundamental requirements
for safety; and
      (2)   The granting of the variance does not increase the risk of fire or
danger to the public. A copy of any variance granted shall be retained by the
Fire Prevention Bureau.
   (D)   The Fire Chief, within ten business days following receipt of a
variance or an appeal made under this section, shall either sustain or overrule
the order(s). A written copy of the decision shall be sent by certified mail to
the appellant.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant may appeal the decision of the Fire Chief. Such
an appeal shall be made in writing to the Council within ten business days
following receipt of a decision rendered by the Fire Chief.
   (F)   The Council shall hold a hearing after which it shall sustain, modify,
or override the decision of the Fire Chief. A written copy of the decision
shall be sent by certified mail to the appellant. Decisions rendered by the
Council shall be final.
   (G)   A variance pertaining to the requirements of this Fire Prevention Code
shall be enforced in the same manner as a notice of violation or order issued
under this Fire Prevention Code.
   (H)   Whenever the Town Fire Department learns that an owner is in violation
of the terms of a variance issued pursuant to this section, the Fire Chief may
order compliance as provided in the Fire Prevention Code.
   (I)   An owner or occupant requesting a variance or an appeal from a
specific provision of this Fire Prevention Code that are not part of the state
adopted fire and building laws as set forth by I.C. 22-13-2-11 shall be subject
to an administrative fee of $50.
§ 91.046 FALSE REPORTING.
   It is a violation of this Fire Prevention Code for a person, firm, or
corporation to willfully and knowingly sign a compliance affidavit card or
other compliance affidavit document attesting that a code violation has been
corrected when such person, firm, or corporation has actual knowledge that the
code violation has not been corrected.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.047 PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES.
   The Fire Chief is authorized to modify any of the provisions of this Fire
Prevention Code upon application in writing by the owner, lessee, or duly
authorized representative where there is practical difficulty in the way of
carrying out the provisions of this Fire Prevention Code; provided that the
intent of the Code shall be complied with and public safety is secured.
WATER SUPPLY
§ 91.060 WATER MAINS.
   All water mains hereafter installed in, or adjacent to, the town with
respect to which fire protection shall be required or requested for the benefit
of owners of property adjoining or served from such mains shall be made with
approved pipe of not less than six inches inside diameter.
§ 91.061 REQUIRED WATER SUPPLY FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   All Class 1 structures or portions of Class 1 structures hereafter
constructed shall be provided with a water supply capable of providing the
required fire flow for firefighting purposes for a minimum of two hours. In
setting the requirements for the fire flow, the Fire Chief may utilize the
International Fire Code (IFC), as in effect from time to time, Appendix B
entitled “Fire Flow Requirements for Buildings” as a guide.
§ 91.062 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All private fire hydrants and water mains shall be installed and
maintained as set forth in the National Fire Protection Association, NFPA 24,
2007 Edition. In determining the location and spacing of fire hydrants, the
Fire Chief may utilize the International Fire Code (IFC), as in effect from
time to time, Appendix C entitled “Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution” as
a guide.
   (B)   All fire hydrants required by the Fire Chief, or his or her designee,
shall be approved by the Town Fire Department and accepted by the water utility
having jurisdiction prior to any construction above the foundation.
   (C)   Within the fire protection district of the Town Fire Department, all
new and existing fire hydrants shall be equipped with connections that are
compatible with the Town Fire Department hydrant adapters.
   (D)   Whenever the provisions of this chapter require the installation of a
public or private fire hydrant, such hydrant shall meet the specifications
outlined in the Town Fire Department fire hydrant specifications list which is
maintained at the office of the Town Fire Prevention Bureau Inspection
Division.
FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS
§ 91.075 ALERT DECALS.
   Alert decals to advise fire companies to the presence of access features
covered by this chapter shall be displayed on any outside door or window as
approved by the Fire Chief.
§ 91.076 MARKING.
   Approved signage, including signage for vertical hazards, shall be provided
and maintained for Fire Department access roads to identify such roads and
prohibit the obstruction of these access roads.
§ 91.077 FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Fire protection equipment, including fire hydrants, Fire Department
connections, dry hydrants, and the like, shall be clearly identified in a
manner approved by the Fire Chief to prevent obstruction by vehicles or other
obstructions.
   (B)   In all new and existing Class 1 structures, all interior or exterior
doors that lead to fire protection equipment, electrical panels or equipment,
HVAC equipment, elevator equipment, hazardous materials storage or process
areas, interior roof access, or equipment that controls other building
functions shall be identified for use by the Fire Department.
§ 91.078 OBSTRUCTIONS TO FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS.
   Fire protection equipment including, but not limited to, fire hydrants, Fire
Department connections, and dry hydrants shall be clearly marked in a manner
approved by the Fire Chief to prevent the presence of any obstructions.
§ 91.079 EXTERIOR DOORS.
   Exterior doors or their function shall not be eliminated without prior
approval of the Fire Chief. Exterior doors which have been rendered
nonfunctional, as approved by the Fire Chief, and which retain a functional
door appearance shall have a sign affixed to the exterior of the door stating,
“THIS DOOR BLOCKED”. Required exit doors or Fire Department access doors shall
not be eliminated.
§ 91.080 TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   Any time a new development is required to install a traffic control signal
device, or upgrade an existing signal, the developer shall be responsible for
installing approved emergency vehicle preemption signaling equipment on the new
signal. Approved product identification and signaling information is available
from the Town Fire Department.
§ 91.081 FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS.
   Plans for fire apparatus access roads shall be submitted to the Fire
Department for review.
§ 91.082 TIMING OF INSTALLATION.
   Required fire hydrants and temporary-surfaced access roads within the site
shall be installed and made serviceable prior to construction of a building or
structure, and such hydrants and roads shall be maintained during construction.
§ 91.083 ONE OR TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS.
   Developments of one or two-family dwellings having more than 100 dwelling
units shall be equipped with two or more separate fire apparatus access roads
that enter the development.
§ 91.084 SECURITY CAPS.
   When a newly constructed Class 1 structure is protected by a water-based
fire protection system with a Fire Department connection (FDC), the Fire Chief
shall require the property owner or tenant to install a Knox FDC Plug, FDC
Storz Cap, or similar product manufactured by the Knox Company.
§ 91.085 TURNING RADIUS.
   The turning radius of a fire apparatus access road shall be determined after
the consultation with the Town Fire Department. Such roads shall be designed
and constructed to permit turning of the longest piece of fire apparatus
available to the Town Fire Department.
§ 91.086 DEAD-ENDS.
   Dead-end fire apparatus access roads in excess of 150 feet in length shall
be designed and constructed to allow the turning around of the longest piece of
fire apparatus available to the Town Fire Department. The installation, method
of construction, and material of the turnaround must be approved by the Fire
Chief and the Town Planning Department.
§ 91.087 ABATEMENT OF HAZARDS.
   Whenever the Fire Chief finds, in any Class I structure, combustible or
explosive matter, dangerous or unnecessary accumulation of rubbish, wastepaper,
boxes, shavings, or any highly flammable material that may endanger property,
or shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors,
or windows that may interfere with Fire Department operations, the egress of
occupants in case of fire or other emergency, or finds any other fire hazard,
the Fire Chief shall order the same to be removed or remedied.
§ 91.088 HIGH-RISE FIRE SAFETY PLAN.
   In a high-rise structure, as defined by the Indiana Building Code, a
complete updated copy of the required Fire Safety and Evacuation Plan shall be
kept in the Fire Command Center or other approved location.
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
§ 91.100 COMMERCIAL KITCHEN EXHAUST AND FIXED FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Any new installation of a fixed-fire suppression system installed
under a Type I exhaust hood shall be inspected by the Fire Chief prior to the
cooking equipment being placed into service. The installer of the fixed-fire
suppression system shall:
      (1)   Adhere to all manufacturer recommendations for the installation;
      (2)   Notify the Town Fire Department Inspection Division at least 48
hours in advance of the system being completed for system testing; and
      (3)   Provide written documentation to the Town Fire Department that
states the system has been installed per the manufacturer’s specifications and
successfully tested by the installer.
   (B)   In existing commercial kitchen hood and exhaust systems, the property
owner or tenant shall contact the Fire Chief prior to modifying any portion of
the kitchen hood or exhaust system (i.e., cutting access panels into existing
exhaust ductwork). The Fire Chief shall inspect all work performed on existing
systems.
§ 91.101 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   Portable fire extinguishers shall be installed and maintained in all Class 1
structures as set forth in the latest edition of National Fire Protection
Association, NFPA 10 and as required by the Fire Chief. In all Group R-
2 occupancies, a 2A:20B:C rated fire extinguisher shall be required in each
unit or placed at intervals not to exceed 75 feet maximum travel distance from
each unit in all common areas on each level.
§ 91.102 PLANS FOR FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Plans for fire alarm systems, water-based fire protection systems,
fire pumps, special hazard fire suppression systems, high-piled storage
arrangements, and firestop systems shall be submitted to the Town Fire
Department prior to the request for a required wall rough inspection.
   (B)   Each respective submittal shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Sprinkler systems:
         (a)   One full set of sprinkler/standpipe plans;
         (b)   One full set of sprinkler/standpipe calculations;
         (c)   One copy of the sprinkler construction design release (CDR); and
         (d)   One set of manufacturer’s cut-sheets for all sprinkler heads in
the design.
      (2)   Fire alarm systems:
         (a)   One full set of fire alarm plans (one-eighth inch to one inch
scale);
         (b)   One set of battery calculations;
         (c)   One copy of the fire alarm construction design release (CDR);
         (d)   One set of manufacturer’s cut-sheets for the fire alarm control
panel (FACP) and fire alarm components; and
         (e)   One fire alarm performance matrix.
      (3)   Special hazard fire protection systems:
         (a)   One set of plans (if applicable);
         (b)   One set of engineering data (if applicable);
         (c)   One copy of the construction design release (if applicable); and
         (d)   One set of manufacturer’s cut-sheets for system components.
      (4)   Fire pumps:
         (a)   One copy of the manufacturer’s fire pump specifications; and
         (b)   One copy of the manufacturer’s certified pump test
characteristic curve.
      (5)   Firestop systems:
         (a)   Through-penetration firestop systems;
         (b)   Membrane-penetration firestop systems;
         (c)   Fire-resistant joint systems;
         (d)   Perimeter fire barrier systems; and
         (e)   Fire-rated duct and air-transfer openings.
§ 91.103 FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The location of the fire alarm devices must match the design
professional’s approved plans. All deviations without revised plans shall be
approved by the Fire Chief and shall be filed with State Plan Review.
   (B)   All required fire alarm systems shall be monitored by an approved
supervising station in accordance with National Fire Protection Association,
NFPA 72.
   (C)   Fire alarm initiating devices, alarm signaling devices, annunciators,
or control panels shall not be concealed, obstructed, or impaired.
   (D)   All fire alarm systems required to be installed per the Indiana
Building Code shall be equipped with addressable fire alarm components that can
have their respective status individually identified or that is used to
individually control other functions.
   (E)   Access panels shall be provided to facilitate the testing, inspection,
and cleaning of HVAC duct detectors.
   (F)   A posted diagram of all HVAC duct detectors shall be provided at the
main electrical panel or a location approved by the Fire Chief.
   (G)   HVAC duct detectors that are not accessible from the finished floor
shall be provided with remote test buttons. The location of the remote test
buttons shall be approved by the Fire Chief.
   (H)   A copy of the as-built fire alarm plans for all required fire alarm
installations shall be kept permanently on-site in an approved location near
the fire alarm control panel (FACP).
   (I)   In all newly-constructed Class 1 structures, a listed fire alarm
notification device shall be required in all walk-in freezers and coolers that
exceed 100 square feet.
§ 91.104 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   If a sprinkler system has multiple zones, an approved zone diagram or
map shall be mounted adjacent to the sprinkler riser.
   (B)   A copy of the as-built sprinkler plans and hydraulic calculations for
every sprinkler system shall be kept permanently on-site in an approved
location.
   (C)   Instructions for the assignment of an impairment coordinator shall be
posted adjacent to the sprinkler riser(s). An impairment coordinator shall be
assigned when required by the Indiana Fire Code.
§ 91.105 SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   Smoke detectors and smoke alarms shall be installed as required by the
Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel
Gas Code, Indiana Residential Code, I.C. 22-11-18, and any other code of the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   If required by the Indiana Building Code, Indiana Fire Code, this Fire
Prevention Code, or any other Fire Safety Code of the jurisdiction, single-
station and multi-station smoke alarms shall be installed as follows: R-
2 occupancies shall be equipped with a minimum of one ionization smoke alarm
and one photoelectric smoke alarm; alternatively, one ionization/photoelectric
combination smoke alarm may be used instead; the location of these smoke alarms
shall be approved by the Fire Chief or his or her designee.
§ 91.106 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM REMOVAL.
   No person shall interfere with, tamper with, or remove any fire protection
system, emergency lighting system, fire hydrant, or any other firefighting
equipment without first obtaining a written approval from the Fire Chief.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.107 PRIVATE EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEM.
   Any person, entity, or corporation that operates a private emergency alarm
system within the jurisdiction of the Town Fire Department shall be subject to
the provisions of town ordinances.
§ 91.108 CLASS 1 STANDPIPE SYSTEMS.
   Whenever a Class 1 standpipe system is installed in a Class 1 structure, the
standpipe connection(s) shall be equipped with an approved two and one-half
inch to one and one-half inch reducer. The one and one-half inch connection(s)
shall be supplied with an approved cap.
FIREWORKS
§ 91.120 PUBLIC DISPLAYS OF FIREWORKS.
   The documentation requirements for providing a public display of fireworks
within the town or Kirklin Township are listed below:
   (A)   A copy of the completed fireworks permit application from the Office
of the Indiana Department of Homeland Security (IDHS) as required by I.C. 22-
11-14-2; and
   (B)   A letter of intent to display fireworks. This letter of intent to
display fireworks shall include:
      (1)   Name of the sponsoring organization;
      (2)   Day, date, and time of the display;
      (3)   Location of the display;
      (4)   Number and maximum diameter size of aerial display shell;
      (5)   Types and amounts of ground materials and locations;
      (6)   Timetable of operations including delivery set-up and time of the
“live load”;
      (7)   A statement that only materials listed and approved by the U.S.
Department of the Treasury and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms
(BATF) will be utilized;
      (8)   A statement attesting to the understanding of all the rules and
regulations governing public fireworks displays and that the display located in
the town will be in accordance with National Fire Protection Association, NFPA
1123;
      (9)   A list of personnel who will be representing the fireworks vendor,
their function, experience, and qualification;
      (10)   A site plan of the proposed display site;
      (11)   A copy of the certificate of insurance as required by I.C. 22-11-
14-3; and
      (12)   A copy of the contract between the sponsor and the fireworks
vendor.
§ 91.121 CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A) For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
         (a)   A small firework that is designed primarily to produce visible
or audible effects by combustion and that is required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. 1507. The term
also includes some small devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or
less of explosive composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or
less of explosive composition. Propelling and expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of charcoal, sulfur, and potassium nitrate are not considered to be
designed to produce and audible effect. Consumer fireworks include:
            1.   Aerial devices, which include, but are not limited to, sky
rockets, missile type rockets, helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles,
mines, and shells;
            2.   Ground audible devices, which include, but are not limited to,
firecrackers, salutes, and chasers; and
            3.   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects
described in divisions (a)1. and (a)2. above.
         (b)   Consumer Fireworks do not include the following fireworks as
referenced in I.C. 22- 11-14-8(a):
            1.   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers. However the total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed 100 grams per item; and devices containing chlorate
or per chlorate salts may not exceed five grams per item;
            2.   Cylindrical fountains;
            3.   Cone fountains;
            4.   Illuminating torches;
            5.   Wheels;
            6.   Ground spinners;
            7.   Flitter sparklers;
            8.   Snakes or glow worms;
            9.   Smoke devices; and
            10.   Trick noisemakers that include party poppers, booby traps,
snappers, trick matches, cigarette loads, and auto burglar alarms.
   (B)   No person within the corporate boundaries of the town shall use,
ignite, or discharge or permit to be used, ignited, or discharged any type of
consumer fireworks on any day or time other than the following:
      (1)   July 4 between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and midnight; and
      (2)   If there is inclement weather, fireworks will be permitted the
following day between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and midnight. The Town Council
may grant a special permit for exceptions. This exception will be an individual
request and will be brought in front of the Town Council for approval.
   (C)   Without the express written consent of the owner, no person may use,
ignite, or discharge or permit to be used, ignited, or discharged any consumer
fireworks within the town in or on any:
      (1)   Park;
      (2)   Playground;
      (3)   School property;
      (4)   Church property; or
      (5)   Parking lot.
   (D)   No person may use, ignite, or discharge or permit to be used, ignited,
or discharged any consumer fireworks within the town upon any public street,
alley, or sidewalk without the prior consent of the town.
   (E)   No person within the town may use, ignite, or discharge or permit to
be used, ignited, or discharged any fireworks other than consumer fireworks
except in accordance with I.C. 22-11-14-2.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
CONTROLLED BURNING
§ 91.150 OPEN BURNING.
   OPEN BURNING is defined as the burning of any materials wherein air
contaminants resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the air,
without passing through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
(Ord. 9-07-1, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 91.151 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow, or maintain any form of open
burning of any materials on private or public property, except as specifically
authorized by this chapter. No person shall allow the accumulation or existence
of combustible material that constitutes or contributes to open burning.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.152 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of burning are allowed:
   (A)   The burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood, and other cooking fuels
customarily used in an outdoor grill, traditional food cooking devices, or
campfires.
   (B)   Fires used for recreational or ceremonial purposes such as school pep
rally fires or the celebration of Scout activities. Recreational or ceremonial
shall meet the following conditions.
      (1)   Only clean untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper or
petroleum products can be used for ignition purposes only.
      (2)   The fire shall not be ignited more than two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity.
      (3)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1,000 cubic feet (e.g.,
ten feet by ten feet by ten feet).
      (4)   The local fire department shall be notified 24 hours in advance if
the pile to be burned is more than 125 cubic feet (e.g., five feet by five feet
by five feet).
      (5)   The fire shall not be for disposal purposes.
      (6)   The fire shall not be within 500 feet of a pipeline or fuel storage
area.
(Ord. 9-07-1, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 91.153 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Other types of fires may be approved as follows: Any other type of
fire whereby a citizen of the town has obtained a variance from the provisions
of this subchapter by petitioning the Town Council may be allowed. However, the
Town Council cannot grant a variance for burning that would otherwise violate
the provisions of the 326 I.A.C. 4-1 et seq. as amended and I.C. 13-17-9.
   (B)   The following types of fires may be allowed if approved by the state
Department of Environmental Management:
      (1)   Firefighter training;
      (2)   Fire extinguisher training;
      (3)   Vegetation propagation;
      (4)   Use of air curtain destructor; and
      (5)   Waste oil burning where waste oil originates from spillage during
testing of an oil well and had been collected in a properly constructed and
located burn off pit. Burning shall be subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   Each oil pit may be burned once every two months.
         (b)   The fire must be extinguished within 30 minutes of ignition.
Indiana Department of Natural Resources (DNR) burning, to facilitate prescribed
burning on DNR controlled properties for wildlife habitat maintenance, forestry
purposes, natural area management, and firefighting or prevention; United
States Department of the Interior burning, to facilitate a National Park
Service Fire Management Plan for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, for
example; and United States Department of Agriculture, Forest Service burning,
to facilitate wild life habitat maintenance, forestry purposes, natural area
management, ecosystem management, and firefighting or prevention.
         (c)   Burning by the United States Forest Service for firefighting or
prevention is not subject to the conditions in §
91.154.
         (d)   Burning of marijuana by federal, state, and local law
enforcement offices. Only clean products shall be used for ignition purposes.
         (e) Burning for the purpose of heating, using clean wood products or
paper in a noncombustible container that is sufficiently vented to induce
adequate primary combustion, and has enclosed sides and a bottom. Burning shall
be subject to the following conditions.
            1.   Burning shall only occur between October 1 and May 15.
            2.   Burning shall not be conducted for the purpose of disposal.
         (f)   Burning of vegetation by fire departments and firefighters to
create fire breaks for
purposes of extinguishing an existing fire. Such burning is not subject to the
conditions in §
91.154.
         (g)   Burning of clean petroleum products for fire extinguisher
training are subject the following conditions.
            1.   The local Fire Department and Health Department must be
notified at least 24 hours in advance of the date, time, and location of the
burning. All burning shall take place in a noncombustible container or
enclosure, enclosed on all sides with a bottom.
            2.   A total of no more than 14 gallons of fuel may be burned per
day.
            3.   Only one fire may be allowed to burn at a time.
            4.   All burning shall be conducted in such a manner so as to
prevent any possibility of soil contamination.
         (h)   Emergency burning with prior oral approval of the Commissioner
of the state Department of Environmental Management or the Commissioner’s
designated agent may be authorized for the following: spilled or escaping
liquid or gaseous petroleum products when all reasonable efforts to recover the
spilled material have been made and failure to burn would result in an imminent
fire, health hazard, or air or water pollution problem; or clean wood waste,
vegetation, or deceased animals resulting from a natural disaster where failure
to burn would result in an imminent health or safety hazard.
(Ord. 9-07-1, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 91.154 CONDITIONS FOR EXEMPTIONS AND VARIANCES.
   The following conditions apply to all exemptions and variances.
   (A)   Burning shall be done during safe weather conditions. Burning shall
not occur during high winds, temperature inversions, air stagnation, or when a
pollution alert or ozone action day has been declared.
   (B)   Fires must be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
   (C)   Fires must be extinguished if they create a fire hazard, nuisance,
pollution problem, or threat to public health.
   (D)   Fire fighting equipment adequate for the size of the fire shall be on
site and nearby during times of burning.
   (E)   Burning shall not be for disposal purposes.
   (F)   All burning shall comply with other federal, state, and local laws,
rules, and ordinances.
(Ord. 9-07-1, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 91.155 ENFORCEMENT.
   The open burning provisions are enforceable by the duly appointed Town
Marshal within the town, acting on his or her own initiative or at the request
of the Town Council. Any person found in violation of this subchapter shall be
subject to the following procedures.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall issue a warning notice to a first-time violator
stating that he or she is in violation. The person must then correct the
violation by immediately extinguishing the fire. Failure or refusal to
immediately extinguish the fire shall result in a citation being issued.
   (B)   Issuance of a citation to the violator shall result in the imposition
of a $100 fine for a first offense, $150 for a second offense, and $250 for a
third or subsequent offense.
   (C)   Failure or refusal by the violator to immediately extinguish the fire
in violation of this subchapter shall also result in the Fire Department having
the authority to go upon private property to extinguish said fire.
   (D)   Each subsequent starting, kindling, causing, or allowing of a new fire
after a warning notice or citation has been issued shall be considered a
separate offense.
   (E)   Liability for fire: any person who allows the accumulation or
existence of combustible material which constitutes or contributes to open
burning may not refute liability for violation of this subchapter on the basis
that said fire was set by vandals, an accident, or an act of God.
(Ord. 9-07-1, passed 9-10-2007)
GENERAL PRECAUTION AGAINST FIRE
§ 91.170 GASLIGHTS.
   In all new and existing premises, including Class 1 structures and one and
two-family dwellings, the use of gas lights, gas lamps, gas lanterns, and gas
torches shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s
recommendations, the Indiana Fuel Gas Code (675 I.A.C. 25), and the gas utility
having jurisdiction.
INSPECTIONS
§ 91.185 RIGHT TO ENTER.
   As authorized by I.C. 36-8-17, the Chief of the Town Fire Department or any
duly authorized member of such Fire Department may, at all reasonable hours,
enter the interior of any Class 1 structure for the purpose of making an
inspection. The Fire Chief shall have the authority to inspect or cause to be
inspected as often as necessary for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any violation of the Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code,
Indiana Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel Gas Code, this Fire Prevention Code, or
any other Fire Safety Code of the jurisdiction.
§ 91.186 SCOPE OF INSPECTIONS.
   New construction or work for which Fire Department approval is required
shall be subject to inspection by the Fire Chief. It shall be the duty of the
permit applicant or contractor to cause the work to remain accessible and
exposed for inspection purposes. Neither the Fire Chief, nor his or her
designee, nor the town shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or
replacement of any material required to allow inspection. It shall be the duty
of the person requesting any required inspections to provide access to and
means for proper inspection of such work (e.g., ladder and the like).
§ 91.187 INSPECTION APPROVAL.
   Approval, as a result of an inspection, shall not be construed to be an
approval of a violation of the Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code,
Indiana Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel Gas Code, this Fire Prevention Code, or
any other Fire Safety Code of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give
authority to violate or cancel provisions of the Indiana Fire Code, Indiana
Building Code, Indiana Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel Gas Code, this Fire
Prevention Code, or any other Fire Safety Code of the jurisdiction shall not be
valid.
§ 91.188 OCCUPANT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Each building owner, occupant, or tenant is required to supply the
Town Fire Department with emergency contact information. For new construction
projects, it is the responsibility of the building owner, occupant, or tenant
to provide this information prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy.
   (B)   This emergency contact information is required anytime there is a
change in the ownership of or new tenants inhabit a Class 1 structure. The
required information shall be submitted on the KFD emergency contact form.
§ 91.189 STOP WORK ORDER.
   Whenever the Fire Chief finds any new construction work in a Class 1
structure regulated by the Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana
Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel Gas Code, this Fire Prevention Code, or any other
code of the jurisdiction being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions
of those codes or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the Fire Chief is authorized
to issue a stop work order.
§ 91.190 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   This Fire Prevention Code shall not be construed to hold the public entity,
any officer, or employee responsible for any damage to persons or property by
reason of the inspection authorization herein provided or by reason of the
approval or disapproval of any equipment or process authorized herein.
§ 91.191 WALL ROUGH INSPECTIONS.
   Plans for fire alarm systems, water-based fire protection systems, fire
pumps, special hazard fire suppression systems, high-piled storage
arrangements, and firestop systems shall be submitted to the Town Fire
Department prior to the request for any required wall rough inspection.
§ 91.192 HINDRANCE TO INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, interfere with, or in any
manner hinder the Fire Chief while engaged in the discharge of inspection
duties.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.193 UNDERGROUND INSPECTIONS.
   The Fire Chief shall inspect all underground private fire service and
underground Fire Department connection installations. The contractor shall
notify the Fire Department 48 hours in advance of this required inspection.
AUTOMATIC EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATORS
§ 91.205 AUTOMATIC EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATORS.
   (A)   AED devices, where required, shall be installed in sufficient numbers
and in locations so that an AED device shall be accessible, at a minimum,
within three minutes or 500 feet maximum travel distance in the event of an
emergency in accordance with the American Heart Association recommendations.
   (B)   AED devices, where required, are to be wall mounted and installed so
that they are clearly visible to staff and visitors.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall review and approve the number and installation
locations for AED devices, and shall inspect the establishment to confirm the
AED installation as approved prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
   (D)   The installation and maintenance of the AED device(s) and periodic
training on the use of the AED device(s) shall be the responsibility of the
owner. A business, institution, or other entity which is required to install
AED devices shall train one or more persons in the use of an AED.
   (E)   All AED installations shall be subject to annual inspections by the
Fire Chief.
   (F)   A business, institution, or other entity which is required to install
AEDs can appeal to the Fire Chief for relief from this section if it can be
demonstrated that an undue hardship will exist from complying with the
conditions of this section.
   (G)   AED devices shall be installed in newly constructed Class 1 structures
as required in this Fire Prevention Code. The intent of this Fire Prevention
Code is not to require AED devices in Class 1 structures in existence prior to
the adoption of this Code.
§ 91.206 PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Group A with an occupant load that exceeds 300;
   (B)   Group B with an occupant load that exceeds 300;
   (C)   Group E with an occupant load that exceeds 300;
   (D)   Group H;
   (E)   Group I-1 assisted living facilities;
   (F)   Group I-2 and I-3;
   (G)   Group M with an occupant load that exceeds 1,000;
   (H)   Group R-1, three stories or great in height;
   (I)   Covered malls exceeding 50,000 square feet;
   (J)   Single-tenant Class 1 structures exceeding 60,000 square feet; and
   (K)   Class 1 structures where the floor level of the highest story is
located more than 30 feet above the lowest level of Fire Department vehicle
access.
§ 91.207 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Group A occupancies used exclusively for purposes of religious worship
that have an occupant load less than 1,000 in the sanctuary;
   (B)   Self-storage facilities; and
   (C)   Parking garages and Group U occupancies.
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of this Fire Prevention Code, or shall do any act prohibited herein,
or shall fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined within the time prescribed
by the Fire Chief, or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful notice
of violation or any order by the Fire Chief in connection with the provisions
of this Fire Prevention Code or any other Fire Safety Code of the jurisdiction,
for each such violation, failure, or refusal, such person, firm, or corporation
may be cited into the court having jurisdiction and fined up to an including
the maximum penalty prescribed by I.C. 36-1-3-8(10).
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to levy fees or issue
citations covering violations of this Fire Prevention Code. Violators shall be
fined and/or cited into the court having jurisdiction.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to cause improvement location
permits (ILP) and building permits to be held and not released by the Town
Planning Department for all projects that require Fire Department approval
until all required or requested information is received by the Kirklin
Volunteer Fire Department.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Public Nuisances
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.03   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.04   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.05   Weeds, tall grasses, and debris
   
92.06   Junk
   
92.07   Enforcement and remedies
   
92.08   Collection period
   
92.09   Grass clippings, leaves, other vegetation
   
92.10   Obstruction of town streets, alleys and public rights-of-way
Noise
   
92.20   Applicability
   
92.21   Definitions
   
92.22   Prohibited activities
   
92.23   Exemptions
Abandoned Vehicles
   
92.35   Definitions
   
92.36   Intent
   
92.37   Nuisance declared
   
92.38   Time limits
   
92.39   Removal procedures on public and private property
   
92.40   Disposal of vehicle
   
92.41   Proceeds of sale applied to costs
   
92.42   Limitation of costs
   
92.43   Proceeds of sale; Abandoned Vehicle Fund
   
92.44   Exceptions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER, GARBAGE, and RUBBISH. Newspapers, handbills, circulars, and all
other waste material thrown or deposited in any street, sidewalk, alley, or
public place in the town.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A thing, act, occupation, condition, or use of property
which shall continue for such length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water, or other public way.
§ 92.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   (A)   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are
hereby specifically declared to be public health nuisances, but shall not be
construed to exclude other health nuisances coming within the definition of §
92.01 above:
      (1)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated, or unwholesome food or drink
sold or offered for sale to the public;
      (2)   Carcasses of animals, birds, or fowl not buried or otherwise
disposed of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
      (3)   Accumulations of decayed animals or vegetable matter, trash,
rubbish, rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, or any material in which
flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats, or other vermin may breed,
or may be a fire hazard;
      (4)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies, or other insects can
multiply;
      (5)   Garbage cans which are not fly-tight or not kept clean;
      (6)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases,
fly ash, or industrial dust within the town limits in such quantities as to
endanger the health of persons of ordinary sensibilities or to threaten or
cause substantial injury to property;
      (7)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, river, lake,
canal, or body of water by sewage, creamery, industrial wastes, or other
substances;
      (8)   Any use of property, substances, or things within the town emitting
or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious, or disagreeable
odors, effluvia, or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of
ordinary persons which annoy, discomfort, injure, or inconvenience the health
of any appreciable number of persons within the town, or any slaughterhouse;
      (9)   All abandoned wells not securely covered or secured from public
use;
      (10)   All noxious weeds. See §
92.05 for additional regulations; and
      (11)   Any accumulation of junk, rubbish, scrap metal, automotive parts,
building materials, machinery, or dead trees or parts thereof upon any premises
in a residential area. See §
92.04 for additional regulations.
   (B)   It shall be illegal to throw, place, or deposit litter or any foreign
matter of any kind in any street, sidewalk, alley, or public place in the town.
   (C)   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, other public place, or
upon private property.
   (D)   Such nuisances shall be subject to abatement in accordance with §
92.07.
§ 92.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   (A)   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are
hereby specifically declared to be public nuisances offending public morals and
decency, but such enumeration shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances
offending public morals and decency coming within the definition of §
92.01:
      (1)   All disorderly houses, bawdy houses, houses of ill fame, gambling
houses, and buildings or structures kept or resorted to for the purpose of
prostitution, promiscuous sexual intercourse, or gambling;
      (2)   All gambling devices and slot machines;
      (3)   All places where intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages
are sold, possessed, stored, brewed, bottled, manufactured, or rectified
without a permit or license as provided for by this subchapter;
      (4)   Any place or premises within the town where town ordinances or
state laws relating to public health, safety, peace, morals, or welfare are
openly, continuously, repeatedly, and intentionally violated; and
      (5)   Any place or premises resorted to for the purpose of drinking
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages in violation of the laws of the
state or the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Such nuisances shall be subject to abatement in accordance with §
92.07.
§ 92.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   (A)   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are
hereby declared to be public nuisances affecting peace and safety, but such
enumeration shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances affecting public
peace or safety coming within the provisions of §
92.01:
      (1)   All buildings erected, repaired, or altered within the town in
violation of the provisions of the ordinances of the town relating to materials
and manner of construction of buildings and structures;
      (2)   All unauthorized signs, signals, markings, or devices which purport
to be or may be mistaken as official traffic-control devices placed or
maintained upon or in view of any public highway or railway crossing;
      (3)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
persons driving vehicles on public streets, alleys, or highways from obtaining
a clear view of traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian
crosswalk;
      (4)   Actions involving trees included in the following.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, grow, or maintain
any shade tree or trees, which will obstruct the proper distribution of light
from the street lamps now in use and hereinafter to be erected.
         (b)   All trees shall be trimmed so as to have a clear height of ten
feet above the surface of sidewalks and 14 feet above the surface of the street
or roadway, and the branches of all trees in front of and along lots or lands
near which street lights are placed shall be trimmed so as not to obstruct the
free passage of light from the street lights to the street and sidewalks.
         (c)   The Marshal is authorized to give written notice by mail to
property owners ordering them to trim trees so that the trees shall conform to
the provisions of division (A)(4)(b) above.
         (d)   If the property owner fails to trim said trees as ordered, the
Marshal may cause the trees to be trimmed as ordered, and the cost thereof
shall be a lien on such real estate and collectible in the same manner as
assessments made for street improvements.
         (e)   Except as noted in the maintenance requirements above, no person
shall cut, break, or injure the roots, body, limbs, or branches of a tree
planted or growing in and upon the streets, alleys, avenues, public places, or
parks within the town, or tack or post a notice, handbill, or advertisement of
any kind upon said trees, guards around the same, or do any other thing whereby
the beauty or life of any tree or shrub may be marred, disfigured, or injured.
      (5)   Actions involving shrubbery and obstructions included in the
following.
         (a)   On property at any corner formed by intersecting streets, it
shall be unlawful to install, set out, or maintain, or to allow the
installation, setting out, or maintenance of any sign, hedge, shrubbery,
natural growth, or other obstruction to the view, higher than three feet above
the level of the center of the adjacent intersection, within that triangular
area between the property line and a diagonal line joining points on the
property lines 25 feet from the point of their intersection, or in the case of
rounded corners, the triangular area between the tangents to the curve and a
diagonal line joining points on said tangent 25 feet from the point of their
intersection. The tangents referred to are those at the beginning and at the
end of the curve at the corner.
         (b)   This section shall not apply to permanent buildings, public
utility poles, trees trimmed to the trunk to a line at least 14 feet above the
level of the intersection, saplings, or plant species of open growth habits and
not planted in the form of a hedge, which are so planted and trimmed as to
leave at all seasons a clear and unobstructed crossview; supporting members of
appurtenances to permanent buildings existing on the date this chapter becomes
effective; official warning signs or signals; to places where the contour of
the ground is such that there can be no cross-visibility at the intersection;
or to signs mounted ten feet or more above the ground and whose supports do not
constitute an obstruction as defined in this division (A)(5).
      (6)   Actions involving street lawns included in the following: no person
shall willfully, mischievously, or maliciously injure any lawn or the grade of
such lawn upon any improved street within the town, or tramp or travel upon
such lawn, or drive any horse or other animal, or run any vehicle upon the same
except at some street or alley crossing, unless permission shall have been
granted by Town Council to such person to use part of such lawn at a designated
point;
      (7)   All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated, or out of repair
as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise unfit for human use; or
shall be an invitation to children and endanger the lives of such children, or
which, because of its condition has become a fire hazard;
      (8)   All wires over streets, alleys, or public grounds which are strung
less than 15 feet above the surface of the street or ground;
      (9)   All loud and discordant noises or vibrations in violation of §
92.22;
      (10)   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or crosswalks and
all excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by the ordinances of
the town or which, although made in accordance with such ordinances, are kept
or maintained for an unreasonable length of time after the purpose thereof has
been accomplished;
      (11)   All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations, or unused
basements freely accessible from any public street, alley, or sidewalk;
      (12)   All abandoned refrigerators, iceboxes, or similar containers from
which the doors and other covers have not been removed or which are not
equipped with a device for opening from the inside by pushing only with the
strength of a small child;
      (13)   Any unauthorized or unlawful use of property abutting on a public
street, alley, or sidewalk or of a public street, alley, or sidewalk which
causes large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and free use of
the streets or sidewalks;
      (14)   Any sign, marquee, or awning which is in an unsafe condition,
which overhangs any roadway, or which overhangs any sidewalk less than eight
feet above the sidewalk surface; and
      (15)   Any nuisance so defined by I.C. 32-30-6 et seq., and any other
provisions of the state statutes.
   (B)   Such nuisances shall be subject to abatement in accordance with §
92.07.
§ 92.05 WEEDS, TALL GRASSES, AND DEBRIS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEPARTMENT. The Town Police Department, which shall have the
responsibility of administering this section.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Town Marshal of the Department authorized to
enforce the removal of weeds, tall grasses, and rank vegetation, a duly
appointed Deputy Town Marshal, or other designee of the Town Marshal.
      HABITUALLY UNMAINTAINED PROPERTY. A parcel of land from which the
Department has removed weeds or rank vegetation three or more times in a
calendar year.
      HEARING AUTHORITY. The Ordinance Violations Bureau.
      OWNER. The owner of record of real property, as found in the records of
the County Auditor's office.
      OWNER'S ADDRESS. The most recently known or public records mailing
address of the owner and that address to which the County Treasurer sends tax
duplicates.
      PERSON RESPONSIBLE. Owner, or a tenant or occupant of the premises who
has in writing agreed to be responsible for cutting the weeds, tall grasses, or
removal of the rank vegetation.
      RANK VEGETATION. Any plant growth which is or may be harmful to the
senses, health, or well-being of the citizens of the jurisdiction. The
definition of rank vegetation does not include prairie land or agricultural
crops such as hay and pasture.
      TALL GRASSES. Any grasses which have grown to height in excess of eight
inches, except prairie and other agricultural grasses used for landscaping and
ornamental purposes.
      WEEDS. Any growth of vegetation other than trees, bushes, shrubs,
ornamental plants, or agricultural plants cultivated in an orderly manner for
the purpose of producing food. Notwithstanding the foregoing, trees, bushes,
shrubs, or agricultural plants which have sprouted as volunteers and are
growing along fence lines and public rights-of-way shall be considered to be
weeds. The definition of weeds does not include crops such as hay and pasture.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No owner shall allow any growth of grass or weeds in excess of
eight inches in height upon his or her property, except prairie and other
ornamental grasses used for landscaping or ornamental purposes.
      (2)   No owner shall allow the growth of rank vegetation upon his or her
property.
      (3)   When a complaint alleging a violation of this section is received
by the Department from any person, or through its own employees, the Department
may seek a court order to enter onto any occupied property and make an
inspection if the owner or other person in control of the property does not
voluntarily give permission to enter the property to make the inspection. The
search shall be limited to the places pertinent to the complaint or as outlined
in the inspection warrant. No such administrative search warrant or other court
approval shall be necessary if the inspection can be made from a public
sidewalk, street, alley, other public place, adjoining property with that
owner's permission, or if the premises is abandoned.
   (C)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   The Department shall document any violation of this section and
issue a notice to the owner to cut the weeds or tall grasses or cut or remove
the rank vegetation within seven calendar days. The notice becomes final seven
days after notice is given unless the owner or another person holding a
substantial property interest of public record requests a hearing, in writing,
before the hearing authority and the written request is delivered to the
Department before the end of the seven-day period. If a hearing is held, the
owner or other interested party may appeal the decision of the hearing
authority to the Circuit or Superior Court of the county within the time limits
provided by I.C. 36-7-9-8. If this matter is taken to a court, the town may
recover its costs and expenses, a fine, as well as any and all amounts allowed
by law and this municipal code.
      (2)   For any property found to be in violation of division (B) above,
the Department shall issue a notice to cut or remove tall grasses, weeds, and/
or rank vegetation to the owner. The notice shall advise the owner of the
violation and advise them of the following:
         (a)   He or she has seven days to abate the violation;
         (b)   The amount of the penalty if the violation is not abated within
the seven days;
         (c)   If the violation is corrected by the owner or other person
responsible within seven days, no further action will be taken and no penalty
imposed;
         (d)   The owner or other person responsible shall correct the
violation or request a hearing before the hearing authority within seven days
of the date of service;
         (e)   The request for a hearing must be in writing, addressed to the
Department, and delivered in person or by certified mail; and
         (f)   If the violation is abated by the Department or its agent, the
owner will be liable in the sum of $300 for the cost incurred by the Department
in abating the violation, the processing cost incurred by the Department in
processing the matter, plus monetary penalty as outlined in § 92.99 for owners
who violate division (B) above.
   (D)   Manner of service.
      (1)   The notice to cut or remove tall grasses, weeds, and/or rank
vegetation shall be in writing and shall be served on the owner of the
property, and shall be delivered by personal service by an officer of the Town
Police Department, sent by first-class mail, or an equivalent service as
permitted under I.C. 1-1-7-1, to:
         (a)   The owner of real property with a single owner; or
         (b)   At least one of the owners of real property with multiple owners
at the last address of the owner for the property as indicated in the records
of the County Auditor on the date of the notice.
      (2)   Any notices to be given hereunder by first-class mail shall be
deemed sufficiently given when placed in an envelope directed to the owner at
the owner's address and deposited in a United States Post Office mailbox,
postage prepaid. If an initial notice of the violation is provided by certified
mail, first-class mail, or equivalent service under division (D)(1) above, a
continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time of
abatement. A continuous abatement notice serves as notice to the owner that
each subsequent violation during the same year for which the initial notice of
the violation was provided may be abated by the municipality or county, or its
contractors.
   (E)   Abatement by Department.
      (1)   If the violation has not been abated by the owner as noticed, the
Department shall enter the property and abate the violation utilizing the
town's own employees and equipment or a contractor engaged by the Department.
When a violation of division (B) is abated by action of the Department or its
contractor, the owner(s) of record at the time the notice to cut or remove
weeds, tall grasses, and/or rank vegetation was served is/are jointly and
severally liable for the costs in abating the violation;
      (2)   A charge of $300 for work performed by the Department or the work
accomplished by a contractor which sum gives consideration to the additional
wear and damage to equipment used to abate weeds, tall grasses, and/or rank
vegetation, and which also includes the average processing expense that will be
incurred by the Department in taking the technical, administrative, and legal
actions concerning typical weed and/or rank vegetation violations that are
necessary for work to be performed by the Department or by a contractor. In
determining the average processing expense, the following costs have been
considered:
         (a)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about identity and
location of the owner of the property;
         (b)   The cost of preparing and mailing notices;
         (c)   The salaries and fringe benefits of employees;
         (d)   The prorated cost of motor vehicle operating costs for
Department-owned vehicles or the cost of mileage for the use of employee's
private vehicles;
         (e)   The cost of supplies, equipment, and office space;
         (f)   The expense incurred for the services of the Town Attorney;
         (g)   The costs incurred in collecting unpaid billings.
   (F)   Bill for costs incurred in abating the violation.
      (1)   The Department shall issue a bill to the owner for the costs
incurred by the Department in bringing the property into compliance with this
section, including administrative costs, monetary penalty, and abatement costs.
The person to whom the bill is issued may appeal that determination to the
hearing authority within ten days of receiving a bill. The only basis for
appeal which the hearing authority may consider are:
         (a)   The work was not performed on the noticed property or was
performed before the seven days required by division (C) above;
         (b)   The amount of charges is unreasonable based on the size of the
property; or
         (c)   The owner was not served legal notice of the violation. The
hearing authority shall consider such appeals and may adjust or waive said
costs as individual circumstances may warrant. The decision of the hearing
authority may be appealed to the Circuit or Superior Court of the county
according to law.
      (2)   If the owner fails to pay such bill as issued or appeals as
provided herein, the Department or the office of the Clerk-Treasurer shall,
after 30 days, certify to the County Auditor the amount of the bill, plus any
additional administrative costs incurred in the certification. The Auditor
shall place the total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the property
affected, and the total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be
collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
Municipal Fund from which such costs were made.
   (G)   Statutory authority. Authority of the town to adopt procedures for the
cutting or removal of weeds, tall grasses, and/or rank vegetation, see I.C. 36-
7-10.1 et seq.
   (H)   Money collected under this section shall be deposited in the General
Fund.
   (I)   This section was in full force and effect from and after its passage
by the Town Council and publication in accordance with I.C. 36-4-6-14(b).
(Ord. 8-11-14A, passed 8-11-2014; Ord. 2024-7-6, passed 7-8-2024) Penalty, see
§
92.99
§ 92.06 JUNK.
   (A)   In addition to what is declared in this section to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
the state as public nuisances, may, in case any thereof exist within the town
limits, be treated as such and be against as is provided in this section; or in
accordance with any other provisions of law. Wherever the word “nuisance” is
used in this section, it refers to a public nuisance.
   (B)   Whenever the singular of the word person, owner, occupant, tenant,
agent, representative, company, corporation, or any other word referring to a
person or entity subject to this section is used, the use thereof shall
likewise include the plural of such word and likewise when the plural of such
word is used, it shall include the singular. Whenever the word person or
persons is used to denote someone subject to the terms of this section, such
word or words shall include companies, corporations, partnerships, and other
legal entities, as the case may be.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTOMOBILE. A vehicle used to transport persons or property that is moved
by an engine or motor that is a part of said vehicle over streets, highways,
tracks, or roads.
      AUTOMOBILE PARTS.   Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle,
whether used in the transportation of persons, animals, personal property, or
merchandise of any nature, that is detached from the automobile as a whole.
      DEBRIS. Broken scattered remains of anything, such as tree limbs,
bottles, appliances, building material, and paper that would create an unkept
condition.
      JUNK. Scraps, parts, or obsolete pieces of anything including, but not
limited to, metal, glass, paper, rags, tires, or other rubber products, wood,
masonry, and plastics.
      JUNK VEHICLES. Any style or type of conveyance, whether for the
transportation of persons or property, that is unfit for further use as a
vehicle; a conveyance not bearing a current license plate registered to that
vehicle; or a conveyance that appears to be obsolete and derelict that has been
placed on blocks or jacks for a period exceeding 30 days.
      NOXIOUS WEEDS. Any weed, over 8 inches in height, defined by the U.S.D.A.
as of a prohibited or restricted nature and includes, but is not limited to:
Canadian and bull thistles, bind weed, wild garlic, wild grasses such as crab,
Johnson, peper, and quack, giant fox tail, oxeye daisy, penny crest, wild
mustard, and horse weeds.
      RAGS. Cloth products of any nature whether wearing apparel, bed clothing,
towels, or other usually in a dilapidated state or otherwise discontinued from
use.
      SCRAP LUMBER. Anything of a wood nature that could not be construed as
suitable for building in the commonly accepted manner.
      SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum,
or any alloy. Any pieces or parts of metal covered with porcelain, paint, or
other material shall be considered SCRAP.
      SCRAP PAPER. Paper of any kind whether loose, baled, or bundled and
includes, but is not limited to: boxes, whether assembled or knocked down;
newspapers, in whole or in part; wrapping paper, loose or in a roll whether it
be brown, waxed, white or any color; plastics such as bisqueen, saran wrap, and
such.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, tenants, or their agents or
representatives, but it shall suffice if the nuisance be created or contributed
to by licensees, invitees, guests, habitual trespassers, or other persons whose
presence on the premises is subject to the control of the conduct that have
been made aware or ought to have become aware by the exercise of reasonable
care.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful, inside the corporation boundaries of the town,
for any person, firm, partnership, or corporation:
      (1)   To store or keep junk vehicles or automobile parts on a public
right-of-way or on a private or public lot exposed to the view of the general
public; it shall be unlawful to have more than five vehicles for each piece of
property. No more than two vehicles may be parked on the street. All vehicles
must be operational and bear current license plates registered to that vehicle;
      (2)   To put, throw, dump, leave, deposit, or to cause or allow the
putting, throwing, dumping, leaving, or depositing of junk, scrap of any kind,
rags, debris, or junk vehicles in or upon or within the limits of any street,
alley, sidewalk, thoroughfare, or public way;
      (3)   To allow any premises owned, occupied, or controlled by him or her
to become or remain in a filthy condition or the permission of the use or
occupation of same in such a manner as to create noxious or offensive smells or
odors in connection therewith, or the allowance of the accumulation or creation
of scrap, junk, rags, or other unwholesome and offensive matter or the
allowance of the breeding of flies, rodents, or other vermin on the premises to
the menace of the public health or the annoyance of people residing in the
vicinity;
      (4)   To permit any building, house, or structure owned by same to become
so out of repair and dilapidated that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to
catch on fire or communicate fire because of its condition and lack of repair
or that due to lack of adequate maintenance or neglect it endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially devalues and interferes with the
peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property;
      (5)   To erect, use, or maintain a dwelling which is unfit for human
habitation. A “dwelling” shall include any part of any building or its premises
used as a place of residence or habitation or for sleeping by any person. A
dwelling is “unfit for human habitation” when it is dangerous or detrimental to
life or health because of want of repair, defects in the drainage, plumbing,
lifting, ventilation, or construction, infection with contagious disease, or
the existence on the premises of an unsanitary condition likely to cause
sickness among occupants of the dwelling;
      (6)   To cause or allow any trees, stack, or other object to remain
standing upon such premises in such condition that it shall, if the condition
is suffered to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property or cause hurt,
damage, or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
      (7)   To permit to emit from premises into the surrounding atmosphere
such odors, dusts, smoke, or other debris as to render ordinary use or physical
occupation of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible;
      (8)   To allow any pool of stagnant water to accumulate and stand on any
property;
      (9)   To make or cause to be made any noise noxious enough to destroy the
enjoyment of dwelling houses or other uses of property in the vicinity by
interfering with the ordinary comforts of human existence including, but not
limited to, continual pounding, continual barking by one or more dogs,
unnecessary sounding of horns, racing the motor, causing the screeching or
squealing of tires on any vehicles, radios, phonographs, televisions, and sound
tracks on public address systems;
      (10)   To cause or allow debris, junk, noxious weeds, such an
accumulation on any premises of filth, trash, garbage, or other waste materials
that it endangers the public health, welfare, or safety, or materially
interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent
property because of the danger of its catching or communicating fire, its
attracting and propagating vermin, rodents, or insects or its blowing into any
street, sidewalk, or property of another. It shall be the duty of persons
owning or being in charge of those business establishments whose patrons
purchase goods of services from their automobiles, commonly known as “drive-
ins”, to furnish sufficient covered receptacles for the deposit of wastes
created in the operation of such business and to clean up such wastes as are
not deposited in receptacles at the close of business of each day (if such
business operates continuously, at least once each day) and at such other times
when weather conditions are such that waste from the operation of such business
is being blown to adjoining premises;
      (11)   To store or allow on the premises such combustible or explosive
material as to create a safety hazard to other property or persons in the
vicinity (automobile fuels in underground storage are exempt from this
restriction);
      (12)   To maintain or allow any unlocked refrigerator, upright or chest
type freezer, any open or uncovered, or insecurely covered, cistern, cellar,
well, pit, excavation, or vault situation upon private premises in any open or
unfenced lot or place;
      (13)   To maintain or allow the growing of trees with less than 14 feet
clearance over streets, of less than ten feet over sidewalks, or the growing
and maintenance of shrubbery in excess of three feet in height within the
radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any street intersects
the curb line of another street. No shrub shall be planted between the curb
line of any street within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb
line of any street intersects with the curb line of another street;
      (14)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, or person in charge
of any lot or land within the town to cause noxious weeds to be destroyed by
spraying with a chemical approved by the Council or by cutting them or digging
them under;
      (15)   It shall be unlawful to perform non-emergency vehicle repairs on
the streets, alleys, or public rights-of-way; and
      (16)   It shall be unlawful to ride a bicycle on the streets, alleys, or
public rights-of-way after dusk unless said bicycle is equipped with operating
lights on both the front and rear of said bicycle.
   (F)   (1)   In any case where any nuisance may exist, it shall be the duty
of the Town Marshal at the direction of the Council to serve notice upon the
owner of the premises where such nuisance exists and upon any other person so
causing such nuisance to abate such nuisance with ten days of said notice.
      (2)   If the owner, occupant, and any other person or entity served with
a notice to abate the nuisance shall refuse or neglect to abate such nuisance
within the designated time.
         (a)   Such person, persons, or entity shall be subject to the
penalties provided in §
92.99.
         (b)   In addition thereto, the Council may remove, cause to be
removed, or do or cause to be done such other acts as are necessary and
reasonable to abate said nuisance, and the Town Clerk- Treasurer shall make a
certified statement of the actual cost incurred by the town in such removal,
which statement shall be delivered to the owner of such real estate by the Town
Marshal or by certified mail, or where appropriate, by publication, provided
such owner shall have been served with notice as provided in division (F)(1)
above and such owner shall have not more than ten days within to pay amount to
the Clerk-Treasurer of the town. If such owner fails to pay the sum within the
time prescribed, a certified copy of the statement of such costs shall he filed
in the Auditor’s Office of the county wherein said real estate is located, and
the said Auditor shall place the amount so claimed on the tax duplicate against
the real estate of the owner affected by said work, and the same shall be
collected as taxes are collected or said costs may be collected by suit.
         (c)   The Council may cause such nuisance to be abated in any manner
authorized by law, including the institution in the name of the town against
the owner, occupant, or other person, of any action therefore and for the
recovery of the amount of the expense of such abatement.
      (3)   The requirement for service of notice under the provisions of this
section may be complied with by the certified mailing of such notice to the
person or persons sought to be notified, provided however, that when the owner
is unknown, notice shall be to the person or persons in whose name or names the
real estate taxes on said real estate are shown on record in the office of the
Auditor of the county, wherein said real estate is located, by registered or
certified mail to the last known address of such person or persons sought to be
notified, or when the address of such persons is unknown, by publication of
said notice once each week for three consecutive weeks in a newspaper of
countywide circulation, published in the county.
   (G)   For the purposes of carrying the provisions of this section into
effect, it is hereby made the duty of all officers and employees of the town to
report the existence of nuisances to the Council or the Town Marshal, and for
this purpose the Town Marshal or other employees designated by the Council,
after reasonable notice to the occupant and at reasonable times shall be
permitted to visit, enter into or upon any building, lot, grounds, or premises
within the limits of the town to investigate complaints of any such nuisances
and to make examination thereof.
   (H)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the keeping of
vehicles intended to be used in a demolition derby so long as only one such
vehicle shall be kept at any residence or other location, and said vehicle
shall be completely covered by a tarp whenever stored outside, and said vehicle
shall be removed from such premises within ten days after said demolition
derby.
(Ord. 4-06-1, passed 4-10-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Abatement of public nuisances. Any violation of this chapter shall be
deemed a nuisance and the Marshal is authorized to give written notice by mail
to property owners ordering them to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Summary abatement.
      (1)   Whenever a complaint is made to the Marshal that a public nuisance
exists or has existed within the town, the Marshal shall forthwith inspect or
cause to be inspected the premises and, whenever practicable, the inspecting
officer shall cause photographs to be made of the premises and shall file the
same.
      (2)   If the inspecting officer shall determine that a public nuisance
exists on private property and that there is danger to the public health,
safety, peace, morals, or decency, the Marshal may serve a notice on the owner
by certified mail, return receipt requested. Such notice shall direct the
owner, to abate or remove the nuisance within ten days and shall state that
unless such nuisance is so abated, the town will cause the nuisance to be
abated and will charge the cost thereof to the owner.
      (3)   In the event that the town has to abate a violation of this section
due to owner non- compliance, the town shall issue a bill to the owner of the
real property for the costs incurred by the town in abating the violation,
including administrative costs and removal costs. The bill shall be sent by the
Clerk-Treasurer by certified mail, return receipt requested, or personal or
copy service upon the land owner if he or she is a resident of the town, or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to his or her last known
address if he or she is not a resident of the town. The bill shall be paid
within 30 days of receipt by the owner of the real property.
      (4)   In the event that the bill described in division (B)(3) above is
not paid to the Town Planning Department within 30 days, the Director of the
Planning Department shall certify to the County Auditor the amount of the bill,
plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the certification.
Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-4, the County Auditor shall place the total amount
certified on the tax duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount,
including any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are
collected and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
      (5)   Any property owner wishing to appeal a notice of violation or a
bill received due to the town’s abatement of the violation must submit a
written request for appeal to the Marshal within ten days of receipt. The
findings of the Marshal are subject to review by the Town Council if a request
for review is filed with the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer by the property
owner within ten days of the receipt of the Director’s written findings.
   (C)   Great and immediate danger and abatement by court action.
      (1)   If the inspecting officer shall determine that a public nuisance
exists on private property and that there is great and immediate danger to the
public health, safety, peace, morals, or decency, the designated Department may
direct the Chief of Police, or a Deputy Sheriff, to serve a notice on the owner
or, if the owner cannot be found, on the occupant or person causing,
permitting, or maintaining such nuisance and to post a copy of the notice on
the premises. Such notice shall direct the owner, occupant, or person causing,
permitting, or maintaining the nuisance to abate or remove the nuisance within
24 hours.
      (2)   Abatement by court action. If the inspecting officer shall
determine that a public nuisance exists on private premises but that the nature
of such nuisance is not such as to threaten great and immediate danger to the
public health, safety, peace, morals, or decency; the property owner has not
responded to written notice; and abatement by the town is not feasible, the
inspecting officer shall initiate an enforcement action in the Town Court to
abate such nuisance in the name of the town.
§ 92.08 COLLECTION PERIOD.
   (A)   The collection period for rubbish, garbage, trash and recyclables is
hereby defined as the regularly scheduled and announced collection day, after
2:00 p.m. on the day immediately preceding the collection day, and ending at 9:
00 p.m. of the collection day (or before 9:00 p.m. on the day immediately after
the collection day if the collection is delayed due to weather or a holiday).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place bags or containers for
the private collection of solid waste including rubbish, garbage, trash and
recyclables in violation of this section, shall constitute a public nuisance
effecting health pursuant to § 92.02, and shall be subject to enforcement
pursuant to §
92.07.
   (C)   (1)   Yard waste and tree brush will be collected once a week on
Mondays, weather and personnel availability permitting.
      (2)   Citizens of the town shall be limited to one load of yard waste
and/or tree brush per week.
      (3)   Tree brush. The tree brush shall be placed adjacent to the pavement
in the public street right-of-way. No tree limb shall exceed 50 pounds in
weight or four inches wide in diameter and shall not exceed six feet in length.
Limbs shall be stacked with cut ends facing the street, not criss-crossed, and
placed in piles not exceeding three feet high and six feet long or wide. The
town shall not collect tree residue or brush as a result of a private tree
contractor's work or any private individual or resident who removes an entire
tree, and the property owner, occupant, or contractor shall be responsible for
the removal and disposal of same in this case. If needed, the town can provide
an area for disposal of the same.
      (4)   Yard waste. Yard waste consisting of plant material (leaves, grass
clippings, branches, brush, flowers, roots, wood waste, etc.), but excluding
loose soils, sod, food waste, plastics and synthetic fibers, human or animal
excrement, noxious weeds and soil contaminated with hazardous substances, shall
be placed in garbage containers with a capacity of 32 gallons or less or paper
yard waste bags and/or plastic garbage bags with a filled weight not exceeding
50 pounds.
(Ord. 2016-5-1, passed 5-9-2016; Ord. 2024-7-4, passed 7-8-2024)
Cross-reference:
   Trash pick-up service, see §
50.03
§ 92.09 GRASS CLIPPINGS, LEAVES, OTHER VEGETATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause grass clippings, leaves,
other vegetation, debris, or trash to be placed upon the town streets and/or
gutters of the town unless such grass clippings, leaves, vegetation, debris, or
trash is placed in plastic bags, trash cans or other suitable receptacles for
collection.
   (B)   The unlawful placement of grass clippings, leaves, other vegetation,
trash causes blockages within the town’s storm water drainage system creates a
public nuisance affecting health pursuant to §
92.02 and violation of this section is subject to enforcement by fines issued
pursuant to §
92.07.
(Ord. 2016-8-2, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 92.10 OBSTRUCTION OF TOWN STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or otherwise cause to be
located in a public street, alley or public way any stone, rock, limb, log,
building materials or other object which constitutes an obstruction to the safe
and open passage along the public rights of way, streets and alleys of the Town
of Kirklin.
   (B)   Such obstruction shall constitute a public nuisance affecting health
and safety pursuant to §
92.04 of the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Kirklin, Indiana and shall be
subject to enforcement pursuant to §
92.07 of the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Kirklin, Indiana.
(Ord. 2019-5-3, passed 6-10-2019)
NOISE
§ 92.20 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all within the boundaries of the town.
§ 92.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All
terminology used in this subchapter, not defined below, shall be in conformance
with applicable publications of the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI).
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated dB(A).
   AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL. The composite of noise from all sources near and far.
In this context, the AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL constitutes the normal or existing
level of environmental noise at a given location when sound is not being
electronically amplified at a location.
   EXCEEDANCE LEVELS L10 AND L1. The A-weighted sound levels which exceed 10%
and 1%, respectively, of the specified measurement period.
   INTRUSIVE NOISE. Noise which intrudes over and above the existing ambient
noise at a given location. The relative intrusiveness of a sound depends upon
its amplitude, duration, frequency, time of occurrence, and tonal or
information content as well as the prevailing ambient noise level.
   NOISE. Any sound which annoys or disturbs human beings or which causes, or
tends to cause, an adverse psychological or physiological effect on human
beings.
   SOUND AMPLIFICATION EQUIPMENT. Any device for the amplification of the human
voice, music, instruments, or any other sound associated with mass assemblies.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument, including a microphone, an amplifier, an
output meter or recording device, and frequency weighting network for the
measurement of sound level, which satisfies the requirements for Type S2A
meters, as set forth in the American National Standards Institute
specifications for sound level meters, S1.4-1971, or the most recent revision
thereof.
§ 92.22 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, entity, or landowner
within the land area specified in §
92.20 to cause or permit any person, machine, electronic device, or any other
means of generation of sound to be generated, which causes sound levels to
exceed the levels prohibited by this subchapter.
   (B)   No person, corporation, entity, or landowner shall permit any noise to
be generated or produced which exceeds 75 dB(A) for more than two minutes per
hour, measured at a point no closer than one-half mile from the boundary of the
property line from which the sound is generated.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, entity, or landowner
to generate or permit the generation of sound from his, her, or its property
through electronic amplification at a level above 25 dB(A) above ambient noise
level for more than two minutes per hour at the property line where the sound
is generated between the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m., daily from Sunday
evening through Friday morning and from 11:30 p.m. to 9:00 a.m., daily from
Friday evening through Sunday morning.
   (D)   No person shall play, use, or operate any machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound including, but not limited to, loudspeakers,
radios, CD players, television sets, musical instruments, phonographs, cassette
players, or any other machine designed or intended to produce or reproduce
sound, nor operate any motor vehicle that contains a modified or defective
exhaust system, if such machine, device, or vehicle is located in or on any of
the following:
      (1)   Any public property, including any public right-of-way, highway,
building, sidewalk, public space, park, or thoroughfare and the sound generated
therefrom is:
         (a)   Clearly audible 40 feet or more from its source; or
         (b)   Is at a level of 90 decibels (90 dB) or more when measured from
a distance of not less than six feet from its source.
      (2)   Any private property and the sound generated therefrom is:
         (a)   Clearly audible 40 feet or more outside of said private property
line; or
         (b)   Is at a level of 90 decibels (90 dB) or more when measured from
a distance of not less than six feet from the private property line.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Sounds emitted from authorized emergency vehicles;
   (B)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors, construction equipment, and power tools,
when properly muffled, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. only;
   (C)   Burglar alarms and other warning devices when properly installed,
providing the cause for such alarm or warning device sound is investigated and
turned off within a reasonable period of time;
   (D)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concerts, artistic
performances, or other events authorized by the Council or another appropriate
governmental entity;
   (E)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic or
sporting events and practices related thereto;
   (F)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency work;
   (G)   Sounds associated with the use of legal fireworks;
   (H)   Sounds associated with the use of an approved public safety training
facility between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; and
   (I)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally established non-
transient businesses when such sounds are customary, incidental, and within the
normal range appropriate for such use.
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 92.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1) A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance, other
than this chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner’s agent within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal; and
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For the purposes of this section, a
vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber, cloth, or
textile covering is considered to be visible.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   APPARENTLY INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Missing wheels, motors, tires, transmission,
or other major parts that affect operability. Also may include a vehicle that
is so extensively damaged it cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in
which it was originally intended to move.
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any vehicle including travel trailers, mobile homes, motor
homes, motorcycles, boats, buses, semi-trucks, trucks, semi-truck trailers,
utility trailers, and other similar conveyances which meets any of the
following criteria:
      (1)   Is an apparently inoperable vehicle;
      (2)   Is without valid registration or current license plates;
      (3)   Is partially dismantled;
      (4)   Is a wrecked vehicle; or
      (5)   Has a fair market value equal only to the approximate value of the
scrap in it.
   OFFICER. Any regular member of the Town Police Department.
(I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2), a person, other than
a lienholder, that:
         (a)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft; or
         (b)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a
vehicle, manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft,
through a lease or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
      (2)   For the purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set forth in
33 C.F.R. 174.03.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121)
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that as assembled do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC AGENCY. A local agency given the responsibility by statute or
ordinance for the removal, storage, and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
(I.C. 9-22-1-3)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other state, county, or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE. A person that engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. A device for transportation by land or air. The term does not
include an electric personal assistive mobility device.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(d))
   WRECKED VEHICLE. A vehicle so extensively damaged that it cannot be self-
propelled or move in the manner in which it was originally intended to move
and/or has missing or extensively damaged window(s), missing wheels, motors,
tires, transmission, or other major parts that affect operability.
§ 92.36 INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to ensure the public health, safety,
and general welfare by providing controls on the removal and disposal of
abandoned and junk motor vehicles. Among other reasons, this subchapter is
necessary to prohibit abandoned and junk vehicles from being disposed of by
leaving them on public or private property.
§ 92.37 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Abandoned or junk vehicles are detrimental to the health, safety, and
welfare of the general public. These vehicles constitute a hazard to the health
and welfare in that such vehicles furnish shelter and breeding places for
vermin and insects. These vehicles constitute a hazard to safety in that said
vehicles can have areas of confinement which cannot be opened from the inside
such as trunk compartments and engine compartments and present physical dangers
to the safety and well being of the citizens. In addition, such vehicles are a
detriment to the economic welfare of the state, by producing a scenic blight
which is adverse to the maintenance and continuing development of the
municipalities in the state. Such vehicles are declared to be a public nuisance
and safety and health hazard.
§ 92.38 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon a vehicle on any public property continuously
without being moved for three days, or in such a manner as to constitute a
hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle traffic on a
public right-of-way.
   (B)   No person shall abandon a vehicle on private property without the
consent of the owner, or person in control, of that property for more than 48
hours.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park, store, leave, or accumulate or to permit
the parking, storing, leaving, or accumulating of any licensed or unlicensed
motor vehicle of any kind which is in a wrecked, junked, partially dismantled,
apparently inoperable, or abandoned condition upon any private property within
the town limits for a period of time in excess of 20 days unless such vehicle
is completely enclosed within a building or stored in connection with a
lawfully operating business.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.39 REMOVAL PROCEDURES ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Public property.
      (1)   Whenever the Marshal finds or is notified of a vehicle placed or
stored upon a public highway, alley, thoroughfare, or other public property
within the town, he or she shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag in
the form required by I.C. 9-22-1-11.
      (2)   The officer shall also make a reasonable effort to ascertain the
person who owns the vehicle or who may be in control of the vehicle and provide
him or her of written notice.
      (3)   If such vehicle is not removed within three days after such notice,
the officer shall cause said vehicle to be removed by a junk or salvage yard or
wrecker service. The cost and expense of such removal shall be paid by the
owner of the vehicle.
   (B)   Private property without owner’s consent.
      (1)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property
that a vehicle has been left on for at least 48 hours without the consent of
the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall follow the
procedures set forth in I.C. 9-22-1-11 through I.C. 9-22-1-14.
      (2)   The person who owns or controls the property may also follow the
procedures set out in I.C. 9-22-1-15 through I.C. 9-22-1-17 to have the vehicle
removed from private property.
   (C)   Private property. If a junk vehicle is found to be in violation of
this chapter, the owner of the property shall be notified of the violation by
certified mail, return receipt requested or personally served written notice
and asked to abate the nuisance within ten days.
§ 92.40 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE.
   The provisions of I.C. 9-22-1-21 et seq. shall govern the disposition and
sale of stored vehicles.
§ 92.41 PROCEEDS OF SALE APPLIED TO COSTS.
   (A)   The costs for removal and storage of an abandoned vehicle or parts not
claimed by the person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle shall be paid from
the abandoned vehicle account under I.C. 9-22-1-30. The charge payable by the
person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle for towing, storing, or removing
an abandoned vehicle or parts may not exceed $1,500. (See §
92.42).
(I.C. 9-22-1-25)
   (B)   The proceeds of sale of an abandoned vehicle or parts in accordance
with I.C. 9-22-1-23 shall be credited against all costs incident to the
removal, storage, and disposal of such vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-26)
§ 92.42 LIMITATION OF COSTS.
   In no event shall the owner of the motor vehicle be charged for towing or
removing the vehicle in excess of $150, nor shall the cost of storage exceed
the sum of $40 per day. The storage charge shall be limited to the number of
days of actual storage.
Statutory reference:
   Establishment of procedures by fiscal body; establishment of Abandoned
Vehicle Fund, see I.C. 9-22-1-30
§ 92.43 PROCEEDS OF SALE; ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND.
   (A)   This section applies to sales of abandoned vehicles or parts by the
town.
   (B)   The proceeds from the sale of abandoned vehicles or parts, including
charges for bills of sale; and money received from persons who own or hold
liens on vehicles for the cost of removal or storage of vehicles; shall be
deposited in the town’s Abandoned Vehicle Fund by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The costs incurred by the town in administering this subchapter shall
be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
   (D)   The Town Council shall annually appropriate sufficient money to the
Fund to carry out this subchapter. Money remaining in the Fund at the end of a
year remains in the Fund and does not revert to the General Fund.
(I.C. 9-22-1-27)
§ 92.44 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard; and
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §
92.05(B) shall be subject to a civil penalty of $50 for the first violation in
any calendar year with the second violation during any calendar year carrying a
civil penalty of $100 and the third and subsequent violations during any
calendar year carrying a penalty of $250.
      (2)   A court of law may assess additional civil penalties of up to
$5,000 against the owner for noncompliance.
      (3)   If a judgment is entered against a defendant in any action to
enforce §
92.05(B), the defendant may perform community restitution or service (as
defined in I.C. 35-31.5-2-50) instead of paying the monetary judgment for the
ordinance violation if:
         (a)   The defendant and the attorney for the town agree to the
defendant’s performance of community restitution or service instead of payment
of a monetary judgment;
         (b)   The terms of the agreement described in division (B)(3)(a) above
include the amount of the judgment the town requests that the defendant pay
under I.C. 34-28-5-4(e) for the violation if the defendant fails to perform the
community restitution or service provided for in the agreement as approved by
the court; and are recorded in a written instrument signed by the defendant and
the attorney for the town;
         (c)   The agreement is filed in the court where the judgment was
entered; and
         (d)   The court approves the agreement.
      (4)   If a defendant fails to comply with an agreement approved by a
court hereunder, the court shall require the defendant to pay up to the amount
of the judgment requested in the action under I.C. 34-28-5-4(c) as if the
defendant had not entered into an agreement hereunder.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
§
92.06 shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, shall be fined not
less than $300. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 4-06-1, passed 4-10-2006)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC PROPERTY AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY; PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Use of public rights-of-way
   
93.02   Cemeteries
   
93.03   Sidewalk construction and financing policy
   
93.04   Liability for the repair of replacement of town property
   93.05   Utility permit and underground installation performance bonds
Parks
   
93.15   Definitions
   
93.16   Hours of operation
   
93.17   Prohibition and exceptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RESIDENTIAL ASSEMBLY. The gathering of seven or more persons within 100
feet of each other within a public street or right-of-way for any purpose.
      TRAVELED PORTION OF A PUBLIC STREET. The part of a street used for
vehicular travel. The TRAVELED PORTION includes all parts of the street between
the curbs, and if there are no curbs, includes all pavement contiguous to the
traveled portion of the road.
   (B)   No person shall gather, march, or remain upon a right-of-way as part
of a residential assembly, unless the person or another person participating in
the residential assembly possesses a residential assembly permit issued
pursuant to this section.
   (C)   No person participating in a residential assembly shall linger, stand,
or occupy the traveled portion of a public street which would impede or
restrict the flow of traffic within the public street.
   (D)   A residential assembly shall not be permitted before 7:00 a.m. or
sunrise, whichever is later; or after 7:00 p.m. or sunset, whichever is
earlier, based upon the time of sunset or sunrise published by the National
Weather Service at the Indianapolis International Airport.
   (E)   No person participating in a residential assembly shall impede a
sidewalk, multi-use path, driveway, or other access to public property which
results in restricting the use of the walkway or access points by the general
public or a contiguous landowner.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to persons viewing or participating in
parades or processions as authorized by §
71.08 which parades include, but are not limited to, the Christmas parade, July
4 parade, homecoming parade, or military parades.
   (G)   Residential assembly permits shall be issued by the Marshal. A person
seeking a residential assembly permit shall apply for the permit in writing at
least 48 hours prior to the beginning of the residential assembly. The
application for the residential assembly shall include the following:
      (1)   The starting and ending time for the residential assembly;
      (2)   The location or locations of the residential assembly; and
      (3)   The name, address, and phone number of the applicant.
   (H)   In the event the application is complete, the Marshal shall issue the
residential assembly permit within one business day of the application. There
shall be no permit fee charged for a residential assembly permit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 CEMETERIES.
   No person shall enter, loiter, or be within the cemetery from sunset to
sunrise.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND FINANCING POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to provide safe and attractive sidewalks
to abutting property owners with existing sidewalks to the extent allowed by
the town budget. To implement this, the town hereby adopts the Sidewalk Capital
Policy. The programs and incentives offered herein are subject to annual
appropriation of funds to carry out the programs. It is understood that to
correct all sidewalk and curb ramp issues is a long-term and ongoing process
This policy is to be used as a guide for determining which sidewalk projects
are to be financed within the funding sources available. Where sidewalks do not
exist, it is the responsibility of the abutting property owner to pay for their
construction.
   (B)   All sidewalk and curb ramp construction under this section shall be
done in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and all other
applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations.
   (C)   This program shall not prevent the town from replacing, repairing,
and/or installing sidewalks at its discretion at its own cost, including, but
not limited to, repair or replacement as part of a construction project.
   (D)   For sidewalk petitions submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer prior to
January 1, 2016, the cost-sharing will be 50% town and 50% abutting property
owners as long as budget funds last on a first-come first-served basis subject
to priority allocations noted below. For petitions submitted thereafter the
Town Council reserves the right to make a different allocation of costs.
   (E)   As part of the sidewalk replacement and repair petition, the abutting
property owners must agree to one of three financing options:
      (1)   Cash payment in full within 30 days of invoicing;
      (2)   Payment of one-third of the total balance before construction
begins with the remaining balance to be paid in no more than six equal monthly
installments with 8% interest; or
      (3)   Payment by Visa or MasterCard in the amount invoiced + applicable
Paygov fees within 30 days of invoicing.
   (F)   The town reserves the right to prioritize sidewalk repair and
replacement. High priority will be given to sidewalks containing one or more of
the following conditions:
      (1)   Lift of over one inch or separation between sidewalk sections;
      (2)   Tilt or cross slope greater than one inch per foot;
      (3)   Horizontal separation of two and one-half inches or more;
      (4)   Lift or settlement greater than two inches from the top of the
curb; and/or
      (5)   Spalling or other forms of deterioration over 50% of the sidewalk
section.
   (G)   If the abutting property owner has a valid “over 65 property tax
exemption” or a “blind or disabled property tax exemption” with the Clinton
County Auditor, such abutting property owner has the following payment options:
      (1)   Cash payment in full within 30 days of invoicing;
      (2)   Payment of one-third of the total balance before construction
begins with the remaining balance to be paid in no more than six equal monthly
installments with 8% interest;
      (3)   Payment by Visa or MasterCard in the amount invoiced, plus any
applicable additional fees charged (as determined by Paygov), of the invoiced
amount within 30 days of invoicing; or
      (4)   The town may place a lien on the property for the full amount which
will be due and payable upon transfer to another person or when the exemption
is revoked.
(Ord. 2015-8-1, passed - -2015)
§ 93.04 LIABILITY FOR THE REPAIR OF REPLACEMENT OF TOWN PROPERTY.
   Any person who through their negligence, willful misconduct or recklessness
causes damage to the property of the Town of Kirklin shall be responsible for
all costs and expenses of the Town of Kirklin incurred in repairing or
replacing the damaged property and all costs and expenses of the Town of
Kirklin incurred by the Town of Kirklin, including reasonable attorney fees and
court costs incurred by the Town of Kirklin, in obtaining reimbursement for the
repair or replacement of such damaged property from the responsible party.
(Ord. 2019-5-2, passed 6-10-2019)
§ 93.05 UTILITY PERMIT AND UNDERGROUND INSTALLATION PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   (A)   All applicants for road work, utility permits, and underground
installations shall be required to obtain a performance bond in the amount at
least equal to the estimated costs of the total project.
   (B)   The performance bonds shall list Town of Kirklin, State of Indiana, as
the beneficiary and shall allow and authorize the town to utilize these
performance bonds to address any issues of the applicant's work.
   (C)   The performance bond, or copy thereof, shall be included with the
submission of the road work, utility permit, and underground installation
applications.
   (D)   The failure of any applicant not procuring a performance bond and
including it with their road work, utility permit, and/or underground
installation application shall face a civil penalty of $1,000 the first day and
$500 everyday thereafter the performance bond is not accompanied with their
permit.
(Ord. 2025-2-4, passed 2-10-2025)
PARKS
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK or RECREATION AREA. Any land or area designated as such by the Town
Council.
§ 93.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Parks and recreation areas shall be open to the public from 5:00 a.m. until
11:00 p.m.
§ 93.17 PROHIBITION AND EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall be permitted to remain in the parks and recreation areas
from 11:00 p.m. until 5:00 a.m. except:
   (A)   Law enforcement officers; and
   (B)   Persons engaged in activities authorized by the Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
94.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
94.09   Exemptions
   
94.10   Administrative enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq. as
amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq. as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq. as amended or
supplemented.
(Ord. 3.11.2013 B, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; and
         (e)   Any other impairment.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in The Controlled Substances
Act, being 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does the term DISABILITY include an individual
solely because that individual is a transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04 through
94.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in “familial status” of this section. Also,
pursuant to 24 C.F.R. part 5, the definition of FAMILY includes families
regardless of the actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or
marital status of its members.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, limited liability
companies, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal
representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts,
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 of the
United States Code, receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 3.11.2013 B, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
94.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
94.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3; and
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(A)(3) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 3.11.2013 B, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
94.03 and except as exempted by §§
94.03(B) and 94.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   That person; or
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an
usability for physically disabled people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (B)(3)(c)3. above.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 3.11.2013 B, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty see, §
94.99
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or familial
status.
(Ord. 3.11.2013 B, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 3.11.2013 B, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
94.03 through
94.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 3.11.2013 B, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Ord. 3.11.2013 B, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 3.11.2013 B, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 94.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the state Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief Elected Official of
the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town, shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord 3.11.2013 B, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in §
94.08(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state, and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 3.11.2013 B, passed 3-11-2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Sales from vehicles prohibited
   
110.03   License required
   
110.04   Application, fees, issuance
   
110.05   Hours sales permitted
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER or HAWKER. Any transient person who engages temporarily in the
selling of any kinds of goods, wares, merchandise, or souvenirs within the
corporate limits of the town, regardless of whether the goods are peddled from
house to house, or sold on the public streets, sidewalks, or other public
places, or sold from any room, building, structure, or lot rented or leased for
the purpose of carrying on the business.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house to house or from place to place
within the corporate limits of the town selling or taking orders for, or
offering to sell or take orders for goods, wares, or merchandise for future
delivery, or subscriptions, or business of any kind, or soliciting or seeking
donations of any kind.
   VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, wagon, trailer, or other conveyance for
carrying property.
(Ord. 7-93-1, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 110.02 SALES FROM VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on any street or
alley in the town, or between any street and property line in the town for the
primary purpose of offering for sale or selling from the vehicle any products,
commodities, goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind, except where prior
approval has been given by the Town Council.
(Ord. 7-93-1, passed 7-6-1993) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association,
or organization to engage in business as a hawker, peddler, or solicitor, as
defined in §
110.01, without first having obtained a license to do so under the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   The licensing provisions of this chapter shall not apply to sales to
dealers from commercial travelers nor the sales of farm and dairy products
produced in the county.
   (C)   The licensing provision of this chapter shall not apply to not for
profit organizations or local service organizations.
(Ord. 7-93-1, passed 7-6-1993; Ord. 12-07-1, passed 12-10-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 APPLICATION, FEES, ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, association, or organization desiring
to engage in the business of a hawker, peddler, or solicitor, as defined in §
110.01, shall apply in writing over his or her signature to the Clerk-Treasurer
for a license to do so. The application must be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
at least seven days before the applicant begins the business. The application
must be completed in full and must contain the following information before a
license will be issued:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address of the person, firm, organization,
corporation, or association whom the applicant represents or by whom the
applicant is employed;
      (3)   The length of time for which the license is desired;
      (4)   The nature, character, or kind of goods, wares, merchandise, or
services to be sold or offered, or the kind of donations to be solicited by the
applicant;
      (5)   The place of residence and place of employment of the applicant for
the 12 months preceding the date of application;
      (6)   A personal description of the applicant;
      (7)   A description of the vehicle or vehicles to be used by the
applicant and the license numbers thereof;
      (8)   Such other credentials and evidence of good moral character and
identity as may be reasonably required by the Town Marshal;
      (9)   A list of those cities and towns in which the applicant has worked
as a hawker, peddler, or solicitor within the last 12 months; and
      (10)   Payment of the non-refundable license fee.
   (B)    (1)   Each applicant for a license under the provisions of this
chapter shall be accompanied by a license fee which shall be non-refundable.
The license fee for non-residents of the town shall be $25, plus $3 for each
additional hawker, peddler, or solicitor over one included in the application.
The license fee for residents of the town shall be $1.
      (2)   Any person exempted by the laws of this state from payment of any
such license fees shall, before beginning business, present to the Clerk-
Treasurer his or her credentials showing that he or she is entitled to the
exemption.
   (C)   Upon the filing of a completed application with the Clerk-Treasurer,
payment of the non- refundable license fee, and approval by the Town Council
President and Town Marshal, the Clerk- Treasurer shall issue a license pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter. The license shall be valid for a period not
to exceed six months from the date of the issuance. If the licensee desires to
continue business after the expiration of the license, a new license must be
secured in the same manner and under the same terms and conditions as the
original license.
   (D)   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked
by the Town Council or the Town Marshal if the licensee violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, or for violation of any state or federal law, or
when the licensee ceases to possess the qualifications and character required
by the provisions of this code for the issuance of such a license.
   (E)   Each person engaged in the business as a hawker, peddler, or
solicitor, as defined in §
110.01, is required to carry on his or her person a license obtained under the
provisions of this chapter and is further required to exhibit the license to
any person to whom the licensee sells, offers to sell, or solicits, or to any
police officer or town official upon the request of the person, officer, or
official. It shall be unlawful to refuse to exhibit the license to any person
demanding exhibition.
(Ord. 7-93-1, passed 7-6-1993) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 HOURS SALES PERMITTED.
   Any peddler, hawker, or solicitor, as defined in §
110.01 of this chapter, shall not engage in any activity with which this
chapter is concerned on any day before the hour of 9:00 a.m. local time or
after sunset.
(Ord. 7-93-1, passed 7-6-1993) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, partnership, association, or organization who violates any
of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 7-93-1, passed 7-6-1993; Ord. 12-07-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Issuance of permits to qualified local liquor retailers approved
§ 111.01 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS TO QUALIFIED LOCAL LIQUOR RETAILERS APPROVED.
   The Board of Trustees hereby consents that liquor retailer’s permits may be
issued to applicants otherwise duly qualified under the state alcoholic
beverage laws in respect to premises located within the town.
(Ord. 11-71-5, passed 11-1-1971)
CHAPTER 112: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Operations generally
   
112.03   Business license - required
   
112.04   Business license - application
   
112.05   Business license - prerequisites
   
112.06   Business license - duration and fee
   
112.07   Application fee - refund on denial
   
112.08   Effect of cessation of business
   
112.09   Business license - insurance and indemnity
   
112.10   Business license - transferability
   
112.11   Business license - identification
   
112.12   Business license - safety inspection required
   
112.13   Location restrictions
   
112.14   Prohibited hours
   
112.15   Standards of conduct
   
112.16   Safety requirements
   
112.17   Restrictions on use and licenses
   
112.18   Appeal
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall have the following meanings:
   BEVERAGE. Any nonalcoholic liquid, hot or cold, intended for use in whole or
in part for human consumption.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked, frozen or processed edible substance or beverage
intended for use in whole or in part for human consumption.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR UNIT. A person who sells, serves, offers for sale, or
gives away food or beverages from any self-contained mobile unit, independent
with respect to water, sewer, and power utilities, capable of moving or being
moved, is meant to be portable and is not permanently attached to the ground,
consisting of an enclosed truck, trailer, bus, or similar vehicle that contains
equipment used for the sale and/or preparation of food or beverages and is
closed up when not in operation. An ice cream truck that does not park or
locate in any one place for longer than ten minutes is not considered a mobile
food vendor unit for purposes of this chapter.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All outdoor areas which are not owned or leased by any
governmental agency or entity, including, but not limited to, streets,
sidewalks, plazas, parking lots, or other areas adjacent to buildings not owned
by a governmental agency or entity.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any event so designated by the Town Council.
   TOWN PROPERTY. All outdoor areas which are owned, or leased as lessee, by
the town or one of the town's departments, or upon which the town or one of its
departments has an easement or right-of-way including, but not limited to,
streets, sidewalks, plazas or other areas adjacent to buildings owned by the
town or one of its departments.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.02 OPERATIONS GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful to locate a mobile food vendor unit in the town except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.03 BUSINESS LICENSE - REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to locate a mobile food vendor unit in the town without
first having secured license to do so as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each mobile food vendor unit.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to any recognized participant of a special
event.
   (D)   It is not necessary to obtain a temporary use permit in order to
obtain a license for a mobile food vendor unit under this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.04 BUSINESS LICENSE - APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring a license under this chapter shall submit a fully
completed application to the Clerk-Treasurer at least 14 days prior to the
proposed date of utilizing the mobile food vendor unit. The application must
set forth or have attached the following information as specified:
   (A)   The applicant's name, current physical address, telephone number,
email address, and date of birth;
   (B)   The name, current physical address, and telephone number of the
person, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, or organization
which the applicant is employed by or represents, and the length of time of
such employment or representations;
   (C)   If the applicant is employed by or represents a partnership, limited
liability company or corporation, the applicant shall provide the name and
current physical address of the executive officers and beneficial owners of the
partnership or limited liability company, or the corporation, as the case may
be;
   (D)   If the applicant is employed by or represents a corporation or limited
liability company then there shall be stated on the application the date of
incorporation or organization, the state of incorporation or organization, and
if the applicant is a corporation or limited liability company formed in a
state other than the State of Indiana, the date on which such corporation or
limited liability company qualified to transact business as a foreign
corporation or foreign limited liability company in the State of Indiana;
   (E)   The type of products to be sold and the hours of the day the applicant
plans to conduct business, provided however no mobile food vendor shall
commence operations before 7:00 a.m. and shall cease operations no later than
10:00 p.m. or the time a special event terminates as determined by the Town
Council as provided in §
112.14;
   (F)   The place or places where said business may be conducted, and a
written statement, if applicable, from the owner of any private property
wherein the business may be conducted authorizing the applicant to use the
property;
   (G)   The duration of the license being sought;
   (H)   A statement as to whether or not a license, under the provisions of
this chapter, or any other similar ordinance of the town or any other county,
town, municipality, or state has been revoked, together with the details
thereof; and
   (I)   The designation of a resident of the State of Indiana as a registered
agent for purposes of receiving notices from the town or other service of
process, as a result of doing business in the town.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.05 BUSINESS LICENSE - PREREQUISITES.
   An application for a license under this chapter shall not be considered
unless proof of the following are provided with the application:
   (A)   All applicable permits required by the Clinton County Health
Department, including but not limited to, a food service establishment license
or a certified food handler certificate;
   (B)   Proof of registration as a business with the Indiana Secretary of
State;
   (C)   Proof of an employer identification number;
   (D)   If business is to be conducted on town property, a resolution from the
Town Council;
   (E)   If business is to be conducted on or in property owned or managed by
the Town Parks Department, a letter of approval from said department;
   (F)   If any type of spark, flame, or fire will be produced, proof of an
open burn permit issued by the Town Fire Department;
   (G)   Proof of insurance in accordance with the amounts established by this
chapter;
   (H)   A copy of the Indiana registration for the vehicle;
   (I)   A copy of a valid driver's license;
   (J)   Copy of an Indiana driver's record and/or equivalent of whatever state
has issued the applicant his/her driver's license;
   (K)   Proof of an independent safety inspection of all vehicles to be used
in business in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   A scaled site plan showing the location of the proposed mobile food
vendor unit and the properties: drives, parking access aisles, fire lanes,
sidewalks and accessible routes; and
   (M)   Proof of payment for, or exemption from, the applicable fee.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.06 BUSINESS LICENSE - DURATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Each applicant shall pay a license fee in accordance with the schedule
set forth below (all licenses are for a consecutive period of time):
      (1)   One-day license: $25;
      (2)   Three-day license: $30;
      (3)   Seven-day license: $50;
      (4)   Thirty-day license: $75;
      (5)   Three-month license: $150;
      (6)   Six-month license: $200; and
      (7)   One-year license: $350.
   (B)   The following listed organizations and/or entities, while required to
obtain a license under this chapter, are exempt from having to pay any fees so
long as the proceeds thereof are to be used exclusively for religious,
charitable, educational, or scientific purposes:
      (1)   Churches;
      (2)   Schools;
      (3)   Benevolent organizations;
      (4)   Fraternal organizations; and
      (5)   Other similarly situated organizations.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 25-25-2-1, while all honorably discharged veterans
are required to obtain a license under this chapter they are exempt from having
to pay any fees.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.07 APPLICATION FEE - REFUND ON DENIAL.
   An applicant shall pay an application fee in the minimum amount of $25,
unless exempted under §
112.06. In the event the license is granted, the application fee shall be
retained by the town and applied toward the license fee. In the event that the
license is denied, $20 of the application fee shall be retained to defray the
administrative expense incurred in investigating and processing the
application, and any remainder shall be refunded to the applicant.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.08 EFFECT OF CESSATION OF BUSINESS.
   No deductions shall be allowed, or refunds given, from the fee for a license
issued pursuant to this chapter for any part of the term of which the licensee
does not engage in such business.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.09 BUSINESS LICENSE - INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY.
   (A)   Each applicant for a license shall provide a certificate of liability
insurance to the Clerk-Treasurer, insuring the applicant, and naming the town
as co-insured, against the following liabilities and in the following amounts
relative to such activity; and
      (1)   Personal injury: $100,000 per occurrence and $300,000 in the
aggregate;
      (2)   Property damage: $25,000 per occurrence and $50,000 in the
aggregate;
      (3)   Indiana minimum, at least, for motor vehicle insurance coverage.
   (B)   Each applicant shall provide a document approved by the Town Attorney
for the town, in which the applicant agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the
town for losses or expenses arising out of the operation of his/her business.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.10 BUSINESS LICENSE - TRANSFERABILITY.
   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable to
another licensee.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.11 BUSINESS LICENSE - IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   All licenses issued by the Clerk-Treasurer under this chapter shall be
prominently displayed on the mobile food vendor unit and shall be shown to any
person who requests to see the license.
   (B)   Failure to display or exhibit a license in accordance with this
section may be grounds for suspension or revocation of said license.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.12 BUSINESS LICENSE - SAFETY INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to locate a mobile food vendor unit unless
each vehicle to be used by the business has undergone an independent safety
inspection within the last two years. A copy of the safety inspection report
shall be included with the application.
   (B)   It is unlawful to locate a mobile food vendor unit which has not
undergone and passed an independent safety inspection in accordance with this
section.
   (C)   If, at any time, the town has reason to believe that a mobile food
vendor unit is unsafe or in a mechanically unsound condition, the Town Marshal
or his/her designee may order a mobile food vendor unit licensed under this
chapter to undergo an immediate safety inspection. The immediate safety
inspection must occur within five business days and a copy of the safety
inspection report shall be promptly submitted to the Town Marshal or his/her
designee. If the safety inspection reveals deficiencies with the mobile food
vendor unit, the mobile food vendor unit cannot be used until such time as the
deficiencies have been remedied.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.13 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Licensed mobile food vendor units shall be subject to the following location
restrictions:
   (A)   No mobile food vendor unit shall locate in any parking lot, parking
space, or parking facility owned, leased, or managed by the town unless
approval has been given by the Town Council.
   (B)   No mobile food vendor unit shall locate within 100 feet of any facade
of a ground level establishment that also sells food and beverages, or locate
within 100 feet of the perimeter of such an establishment's outdoor seating
area, regardless of whether or not the mobile food vendor unit is currently
conducting business. The distance restriction only applies from an hour before
the opening time to an hour after the closing time posted by a ground level
establishment on the facade of its building.
   (C)   No mobile food vendor unit shall locate in an alleyway, unless
approval is given by the Town Council.
   (D)   Mobile food vendor units shall be located a reasonable distance from
all posted bus stops, crosswalks, driveways, alleyways, right-of-way lines of
two or more intersecting streets and building entrances or walk-up windows.
   (E)   Mobile food vendor units shall only be located on private property if
the private property owner has provided the business operator written
permission for the mobile food vendor unit to locate on said property.
   (F)   No mobile food vendor unit shall locate within a one block radius of a
special event unless prior approval has been granted by either the operator of
the special event or the Town Council.
   (G)   No mobile food vendor unit shall be located in a manner which would
significantly impede or prevent the use of any town property, or which would
endanger the safety or property of the public.
   (H)   No mobile food vendor unit shall be located within 15 feet of any fire
hydrant.
   (I)   No mobile food vendor unit shall locate within any zoning district
except the following: Businesses (B-2, B-4, B-5), Industrial (I-1, I-2), or
upon any real estate owned by the town or other public or tax exempt entity
with the written consent of the owner.
   (J)   No mobile food vendor unit operating on private property shall
displace required parking or landscaping nor block any drives, parking access
aisles, fire lanes, sidewalks, or accessible routes required for the private
parking by the town's zoning code.
   (K)   No mobile food vendor unit shall be located more than one foot away
from the curb of the street on which it is parked.
   (L)   No mobile food vendor unit shall park near an intersection and in a
manner that blocks the line-of-sight of drivers using adjacent roadways or
violates the sight line/setbacks required by the Clinton County Unified
Development Ordinance as adopted by the town.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.14 PROHIBITED HOURS.
   No mobile food vendor unit shall be located on any public property or be in
operation within the town except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
other than when the Town Council, for a special event, authorizes other hours
of operation.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024; Ord. 2024-8-1, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 112.15 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   All mobile food vendor unit operators shall conform to the following
standards of conduct:
   (A)   Mobile food vendor unit operators shall conduct themselves at all
times in an orderly and lawful manner, and shall not make, or cause to be made,
any unreasonable noise, including noise of such volume as to be in violation of
any applicable noise ordinance;
   (B)   A device may not be used which would amplify sounds nor may attention
be drawn to the mobile food vendor unit by an aural means or a light-producing
device (examples of such devices may include, but are not limited to the
following: bull horns and strobe lights);
   (C)   No mobile food vendor unit may be permanently or temporarily affixed
to any object, including but not limited to buildings, trees, telephone poles,
streetlight poles, traffic signals, or fire hydrants;
   (D)   No mobile food vendor unit may be used to advertise any product which
is not authorized to be sold from that unit;
   (E)   Each mobile food vendor unit shall be limited to one sandwich board
sign that meets the provisions of any applicable ordinances regardless of the
zoning district in which it locates;
   (F)   No mobile food vendor unit may make use of any public or private
electrical outlet while in operation;
   (G)   Each mobile food vendor unit shall protect against littering and shall
have both an adequate trash receptacle and a separate receptacle for recyclable
materials:
      (1)   The trash and recyclable receptacles shall be emptied sufficiently
often to allow disposal of litter and waste by the public at any time;
      (2)   The trash and recyclable receptacles on the mobile food vendor unit
shall not be emptied into trash or recyclable receptacles owned by the town;
and
      (3)   Liquid from the mobile food vendor unit shall not be discharged on
or in a town sewer or drain or elsewhere on city property, nor on private
property without the express written consent of the owner thereof.
   (H)   Before leaving any location, each mobile food vendor unit shall first
pick up, remove and dispose of all trash, refuse and/or recyclable materials,
including products spilled on the ground within 20 feet of the mobile food
vendor unit;
   (I)   No mobile food vendor unit shall expose any pedestrian to any undue
safety or health hazards nor shall it be maintained so as to create a public
nuisance;
   (J)   Each mobile food vendor unit shall be maintained free and clear of
dirt, and finishes shall not be chipped, faded or unduly marred;
   (K)   Foods or beverages which present a substantial likelihood that liquid
matter or particles will drop to the street or sidewalk during the process of
carrying or consuming the food or beverage shall be sold in proper containers
so as to avoid falling to the street or sidewalk;
   (L)   Mobile food vendor units which utilize a grill or device that may
result in a spark, flame, or fire shall adhere to the following additional
standards:
      (1)   Be placed at least 20 feet from a building or structure;
      (2)   Provide a barrier between the grill or device and the general
public;
      (3)   The spark, flame, or fire shall not exceed 12 inches in height; and
      (4)   A fire extinguisher shall be within reaching distance of the mobile
food vendor unit at all times.
   (M)   Mobile food vendor unit operators shall be required to obey the
commands of law enforcement officers or fire officials with respect to activity
carried out inside of the town's jurisdictional limits, including, where
possible, the removal of the mobile food vendor unit and cessation of such
sales;
   (N)   No mobile food vendor unit shall ever be left unattended;
   (O)   Mobile food vendor units shall not be stored, parked, or left
overnight on any town property, except for multi-day special events;
   (P)   All mobile food vendor units shall install an approved grease
interceptor or grease trap. Foods, oils, and greases shall never be discharged
into the town's sewer or storm drains;
   (Q)   All mobile food vendor unit operators are required to collect and pay
all applicable and appropriate sales taxes;
   (R)   No mobile food vendor shall provide customer seating unless approval
has been provided by the Town Council;
   (S)   All mobile food vendors shall comply with applicable lighting
standards in this code;
   (T)   All mobile food vendors shall comply with applicable vision clearance
standards in this code;
   (U)   No mobile food vendor unit shall have a drive-thru; and
   (V)   The decibels of any generator(s) associated with a mobile food vendor
unit shall not exceed 70dBA.
      (1)   Such noise measurement shall be made at a height of at least four
feet above the ground and at a point approximately 25 feet away from where the
noise is being emitted on a sound level meter operated on the "A" weighting
network (scale).
      (2)   No person other than the operators shall be within 25 feet of the
sound level meter during the sample period.
      (3)   Sound measurements shall be conducted at that time of day or night
when the relevant noise source is emitting sound.
      (4)   The sound level measurement shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Calibrate the sound level meter within one hour before use.
         (b)   Set the sound level meter on the "A" weighted network at slow
response.
         (c)   Set the omnidirectional microphone in an approximately 70-degree
position in a location which complies with divisions (V)(1) and (2) herein. The
operator of the sound level meter shall face the noise source and record the
meter's instantaneous response.
         (d)   Recalibrate the sound level meter after use.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere, through the use
of sound or otherwise, with the taking of sound level measurement.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.16 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   All mobile food vendor units shall comply with the following safety
requirements:
   (A)   All equipment installed shall be secured in order to prevent movement
during transit and to prevent detachment in the event of a collision or
overturn.
   (B)   All utensils shall be stored in a manner to prevent their being hurled
about in the event of a sudden stop, collision, or overturn. A safety knife
holder shall be provided by the vendor to avoid loose storage of knives and
other sharp or bladed instruments.
   (C)   All foods and beverages to be used, prepared, cooked, displayed, sold,
served, offered for sale or stored in a mobile food vendor unit, or during
transportation to or between locations shall be from sources approved by the
health authorities of the point of origin and must be clean, wholesome, free
from spoilage, adulteration, contamination or misbranding and safe for human
consumption. The standards for judging wholesomeness for human food shall be
those promulgated and amended from time to time by the United States Food and
Drug Administration, United States Department of Agriculture, the State
Department of Health, the State Department of Agriculture, and the Clinton
County Health Department and published in the United States Code of Federal
Regulations, the Indiana Code Annotated or the Indiana Administrative Code, and
the Clinton County Code.
   (D)   Each mobile food vendor unit shall be constructed so that the portions
of the unit containing food shall be covered so that no dust or dirt will
settle on the food; and such portions of the unit which are designed to contain
food shall be at least 18 inches above the surface of the public way while the
unit is being used for the conveyance of food.
   (E)   The food storage areas of each mobile food vendor unit shall be kept
free from rats, mice, flies, and other insects and vermin. No living animals,
birds, fowl, reptiles, or amphibians shall be permitted in any area where food
is stored.
   (F)   Hazardous non-food items such as detergents, insecticides,
rodenticides, plants, paint and paint products that are poisonous or toxic in
nature shall not be stored in the food area of the mobile food vendor unit.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.17 RESTRICTIONS ON USE AND LICENSES.
   The town has exclusive authority to restrict the use of mobile food vendor
units and the issuance of business licenses for mobile food vendor units under
the following conditions:
   (A)   The town may restrict the use of mobile food vendor units in certain
designated areas of the town in the event of an emergency declared by the Town
Council, the Town Marshal, the Fire Chief, and/or any of the aforementioned
duly appointed designees.
   (B)   Absent an emergency as described above, the town may restrict the use
of mobile food vendor units in certain designated areas of the town provided
the town has given each mobile food vendor unit licensee written notice of the
restriction at least 72 hours in advance of the restriction going into effect.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.18 APPEAL.
   Any applicant or licensee aggrieved by the action of the Town Council in the
denial, suspension, or revocation of a license or any person who is issued a
citation shall have the right of appeal to the Town Council. Such appeal shall
be taken by filing with the Town Council within ten business days of the action
complained of, a written statement setting forth fully the grounds for appeal.
The decision and order of the Town Council on such appeal shall be final and
conclusive.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation
which violates any provision of this chapter, shall be subject to the following
penalties:
      (1)   Operating a mobile food vendor unit without a license:
         (a)   First offense: $2,500.
         (b)   Second offense within any 12-month period: $5,000.
         (c)   Third offense, or each thereafter, within any 12-month period:
$7,500.
      (2)   Failure to comply with any other provision of this chapter:
         (a)   First offense: $250.
         (b)   Second offense within any 12-month period: $500.
         (c)   Third offense, or each thereafter, within any 12-month period:
$1,000.
   (B)   In addition, the Town Council shall, after notice and hearing, suspend
or revoke, by written order, any license issued hereunder if the Town Council
finds:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provision of the chapter or any rule
or regulation lawfully made under and within the authority of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee is operating the mobile food vendor unit licensed
under this chapter in a manner contrary to state or local code; or
      (3)   Any fact or condition exists which, if it had existed at the time
of the original application for such license, would have permitted the Town
Council to refuse originally to issue such license.
   (C)   Any person charged with violating the provisions of this chapter may,
in the discretion of the enforcement officer, be issued an official warning. If
an official warning is issued, it shall be considered as affording the violator
one opportunity to comply with the provisions in this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-6-2, passed 7-8-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Misdemeanors
   
130.01   Discharging of firearms and use of weapons
   
130.02   Sleeping in public places unlawful
   
130.03   Undesirable persons in public places
   
130.04   Begging prohibited
   
130.05   Posting of handbills unlawful
   
130.06   Spitting prohibited in certain places
   
130.07   Tampering with water meter
Curfew
   
130.20   Curfew hours for children younger than 15 years of age
   
130.21   Curfew hours for children 15, 16, or 17 years of age
   
130.22   Responsibility of parent, guardian, or custodian
   
130.23   Defense to prosecution
 
   
130.99   Penalty
MISDEMEANORS
§ 130.01 DISCHARGING OF FIREARMS AND USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   FIREARM.  Any weapon which is capable of or designed to or which
may readily be converted to expel a projectile by means of an explosion.
      (2)   PROJECTILE. Means, but shall not be limited to mean, any object
that is propelled from a firearm or weapon such as a bullet, shell, rocket,
grenade, arrow, BB, pellet, paintball, rock, or any other similar object.
      (3)   WEAPON. Means, but shall not be limited to mean, any firearm, any
archery equipment, any device used to discharge a projectile either by means of
explosion, by force or mechanical means, any sling shot or slings or any device
that can hurl or otherwise discharge a projectile.
   (B)   No person shall fire or discharge, or cause to be fired or discharged,
within the limits of the town, any firearm or weapon.
   (C)   No person under the age of 18 shall publicly display a weapon.
   (D)   No person shall alter any federally required orange markings or
identification marks on any weapons, toys, or other similar items designating
such as not a firearm. This restriction applies to any weapon, toy, or other
similar items which will be displayed in public.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to police officers or soldiers in the
discharge of their official duties while in the exercise of reasonable care;
nor to a person using firearms or weapons in necessary self-defense; nor to
shooting clubs or other businesses or operations who have a fixed place of
business within the city and whereby they have taken appropriate measures to
ensure that there is no danger to any person whatsoever.
   (F)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine of
$100 for a first offense, $150 for a second offense and $250 for a third
offense.
   (G)   This section shall not prohibit any activity explicitly allowed
elsewhere in this code of ordinances.
§ 130.02 SLEEPING IN PUBLIC PLACES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to be found lying or sleeping upon any public street,
alley, park, or in any stable, barn, building, warehouse, shed, railroad yard,
depot railroad car, or in any public place without having the permission of the
owner or occupant of such place to sleep or to be in such place.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 UNDESIRABLE PERSONS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person having the reputation of, or known as, a
confidence man, thief, or felon to be found in any park, cemetery, street,
alley, or any other public place, or to be found pressing or elbowing his or
her way through any crowd or collection of people, or to interfere or attempt
to interfere with the free passage of any person or persons upon or along any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place without being able to give a
satisfactory account of himself or herself.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 BEGGING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall solicit subsistence, lodging, money, or charity on his or
her own behalf or that of a companion person upon the streets or other public
places within the town.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 POSTING OF HANDBILLS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to deface any telegraph pole,
electric railway pole, electric light pole, fire alarm pole, telephone pole, or
guy pole by tacking, posting, or pasting bills, advertisements, cards, or signs
of any description whatsoever within the town.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 SPITTING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit or expectorate any saliva,
mucus, or other discharges as the result of coughing, hawking, or cleaning of
the air passages, upon any sidewalk, in any cellar or basement under any
sidewalk, in any cellar way, or in any public building or entrance thereto
within the town.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 TAMPERING WITH WATER METER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open, tamper with, repair, or
relocate a town water meter.
(Ord. 2019-5-1, passed 6-10-2019) Penalty, see §§
10.99 and
130.99
CURFEW
§ 130.20 CURFEW HOURS FOR CHILDREN YOUNGER THAN 15 YEARS OF AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for persons under the age of 15 years to loiter upon
the streets or in the business houses of said town between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m. during the months of September, October, November, December,
January, February, March, and April; and between 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
during the months of May, June, July, and August, unless accompanied by a
parent or guardian.
(Ord. 12-91-3, passed 12-30-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 CURFEW HOURS FOR CHILDREN 15, 16, OR 17 YEARS OF AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for persons age 15 years, 16 years, and 17 years to
loiter upon the streets or in the business houses of the town between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
(Ord. 12-91-3, passed 12-30-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT, GUARDIAN, OR CUSTODIAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent or parents of any child under the age of
18 years to permit said child to loiter upon the streets or in the business
houses of said town in violation of §§
130.20 and
130.21, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
(Ord. 12-91-3, passed 12-30-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 DEFENSE TO PROSECUTION.
   It shall be a defense to the provisions of §§
130.20 and
130.21 that the involved child was participating in, going immediately to, or
returning immediately from lawful employment, a school sanctioned activity, or
a religious event. The burden shall be upon such child or parent to prove this
defense.
(Ord. 12-91-3, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
fine schedule set forth in §
10.99.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Mobile homes
   
150.02   Driveways
   
150.03   General design guidelines within the Kirklin Main Street District
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.15   Establishment of law
   
150.16   State law incorporated
   
150.17   Declaration of nuisance
   
150.18   Enforcement authority
   
150.19   Definitions; descriptions
   
150.20   Accepted standards and practices
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any person,
persons, partnership, firm, or corporation to place, put, locate, park, or
erect inside the corporation limits of the town any single wide mobile home,
whether or not modified or expanded, except in a mobile home park.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a SINGLE WIDE MOBILE HOME is defined as
a dwelling which is factory assembled, is transportable, is intended or
designed for use as a dwelling, is designed for transportation on its own
chassis, and is non-self propelled.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a mobile home park must meet the
definition of such a facility as provided by the town zoning ordinance or the
county area plan.
   (D)   An exception to the above prohibition is allowed for the replacement
of an existing mobile home as long as such replacements meet the following
qualifications:
      (1)   A minimum usable ground floor living area of:
         (a)   One story: 980 square feet; or
         (b)   Multi-story: 750 square feet.
      (2)   A roof pitch of 3.5/12 or greater;
      (3)   A roof cover equal to or better than:
         (a)   15 pound felt paper underlayment; and
         (b)   210 pound 3 in 1 seal down tap shingles.
      (4)   Exterior siding equal to or better than beveled vinyl or beveled
aluminum;
      (5)   A masonry foundation of formed and poured cement or of eight inch
by eight inch by sixteen inch concrete block on an adequate footing located
below the frost line; or, a masonry facial skirting of at least two-inch by
eight-inch by 16-inch concrete block or a type of colored brick; and
      (6)   Any such replacement mobile home shall have been manufactured no
more than five years before being placed within the town.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage.
(Ord. 06-12-2, passed 12-11-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the construction of any driveway over any
side ditch within the corporate limits of the town or over any side ditch owned
by the town.
   (B)   Any driveway constructed over any such side ditch shall contain a
metal culvert with end sections. Said culvert shall be a minimum 12 inches in
diameter, be a minimum of 20 feet in length, and be laid in a position most
conducive to aiding the flow of surface water.
   (C)   (1)   Any driveway that does not comply with the requirements of this
section shall be immediately removed from any such driveway by the owner
thereof.
      (2)   However, if a majority of the Town Council determines that an
emergency exist, the town may remove said driveway and assess the costs of such
removal against the owner of the property involved.
(Ord. 5-94-1, passed 5-10-1994)
§ 150.03 GENERAL DESIGN GUIDELINES WITHIN THE KIRKLIN MAIN STREET DISTRICT.
   The Kirklin Town Council that exterior improvements and signage within the
Kirklin Main Street Downtown Area as defined by the boundaries along US 421/
Main Street from Monroe Street to Jefferson including one block east and west
on Madison Street:
   (A)   The Kirklin Economic Development Plan provides general recommendations
for the improvement of architectural assets and aesthetic qualities for the
Main Street District.
   (B)   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and
other structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according
to accepted standards and practices in the trade.
   (C)   All materials, including signage, must be conducive to the aesthetic
and historical intent on the corridor.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to prevent the
ordinary repairs and maintenance of any building, structure, or site, provided
that such repairs or maintenance do not result in conspicuous change of the
structure.
   (E)   Any property owner or other interested party desiring changes in the
exterior appearance of buildings within the Main Street District shall consult
with the Kirklin Town Council prior to making such changes.
(Ord. 2019-6-2, passed 6-10-2019)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF LAW.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the Town
Unsafe Building Law.
(Ord. 12-11-1, passed 12-12-2011)
§ 150.16 STATE LAW INCORPORATED.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby incorporated by reference in the
Town Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within the jurisdiction of the town
for the inspection, repair, and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed
by said law and the provisions of this subchapter. In the event the provisions
of this subchapter conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-
9-29, then the provisions of the state statute shall control.
(Ord. 12-11-1, passed 12-12-2011)
§ 150.17 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the municipal boundaries of the
town which are determined after inspection by the County Board of Health,
County Building Inspector and/or his or her designee, or any other official
appointed by the Town Council to be unsafe, as defined in this subchapter or in
I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq., are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be
abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
(Ord. 12-11-1, passed 12-12-2011)
§ 150.18 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The County Board of Health, County Building Inspector and/or his or
her designee, or any other official appointed by the Town Council, shall be
considered the “enforcement authority” for the implementation of this
subchapter and shall be authorized to administer and to proceed under the
provisions of said law in ordering the repair or removal of any buildings found
to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified hereafter.
   (B)   Where, in the Town Unsafe Building Law, it is provided that anything
must be done to the approval of, or subject to the direction of, the County
Board of Health, County Building Inspector and/or his or her designee, or any
other official appointed by the Town Council, this shall be construed to give
such officer only the discretion of determining whether the rules and standards
established by this chapter have been complied with. No such provisions shall
be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what such
regulations or standards shall be, power to require conditions not prescribed
by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or
discretionary manner.
   (C)   The Town Council shall be and is hereby designated as the “hearing
authority” in connection with the terms and provisions of this subchapter and
I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq.
(Ord. 12-11-1, passed 12-12-2011)
§ 150.19 DEFINITIONS; DESCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in I.C. 36-
7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
   (B)   The description of an UNSAFE BUILDING contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the jurisdiction of the town by adding the following definition.
UNSAFE BUILDING means any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described, provided that such conditions or
defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or safety of the
public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe of the purpose for which it is being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundations,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing,
outside walls, or coverings;
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons
for the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any building or structure provided by the
building regulations of the town, or of any law or ordinance of this state or
town relating to the condition, location, or structure of buildings;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-
supporting part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part,
member, or portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height, and
occupancy in the same location;
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise is determined by the County Sanitarian to
be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, or lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined by the local Fire Chief or
State Fire Marshal to be a fire hazard; and
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building, or portion thereof, an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. 12-11-1, passed 12-12-2011)
§ 150.20 ACCEPTED STANDARDS AND PRACTICES.
   (A)   All work for the reconstruction, repair, or demolition of buildings
and other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according
to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions of the
building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, and as amended from time to time,
adopted as rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission shall be
considered standard and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this
subchapter or orders issued pursuant to this subchapter by the County Board of
Health, County Building Inspector and/or his or her designee, or any other
official appointed by the Town Council.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee,
or occupancy, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or any order issued by the County Board of
Health, County Building Inspector and/or his or her designee, or any other
official appointed by the Town Council. Any person violating the provisions of
this subchapter or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall commit a Class C infraction for each
day such violation continues.
(Ord. 12-11-1, passed 12-12-2011)
CHAPTER 151: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Clinton County 2015 Unified Development Ordinance is hereby adopted and
made a part of this code, as if set forth in full herein.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING MODIFICATIONS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
TABLE I: ZONING MODIFICATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
11-94-1       11-1-1994   Rezoning lots #36 and #37 in the Stowers Addition
                          from R3 district to B4 district
                         
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             2-19-1913   Annexing certain territory to the town, being the
                          R.W. Irwin Addition
                          Annexing certain territory containing 11.10 acres,
11-61-A       11-6-1961   more or less, being a part of the SE quarter of
                          section 12, T20N, R2E 2nd P.M.
11-61-B       11-6-1961   Annexing certain real estate owned by petitioners
                          Midland Properties, Inc. and others
                          Annexing certain real estate, formerly the site of
1973-2        6-4-1973    the Kirklin Township School and belonging to Kirklin
                          Civil Township
                          Special ordinance annexing certain continuous
11-76-1       11-9-1976   territory owned by petitioner Ralph A. Smith, Jr.,
                          containing 9.81 acres
-             4-12-1988   Amending special ordinance annexing real estate dated
                          November, 1976
R. 5-00-1     5-8-2000    Considering a petition for annexation proposed and
                          introduced by Jeffery F. Dennis and Connie L. Dennis
8-00-1        8-14-2000   Annexing a part of the SW quarter section 7 T20N,
                          R2E, 2nd P.M.
6.9-2014      6-9-2014    Annexing territory into the town, being four parts,
                          approximately 41.65 total acres
                         
 
TABLE III: PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
 
Ord./Res. No.  Date Passed Description
                           The alley between Madison and Monroe Streets, as
2015-8-2       9-14-2015   extended, the extension is hereby confirmed and
                           declared to be a public alley and right-of-way in
                           the town
                           Approving the path for the extension of the Monon
                           Trail through the town, agreeing to create a
Res. 2019-10-3 10-21-2019  pedestrian and bike trail within its existing road
                           rights-of-way, and agreeing to fund a survey to
                           establish the exact location of the pedestrian/
                           bicycle path
                          
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                  Code Section
1-1-1-8                     10.07
1-1-4-1                     10.05
1-1-7-1                     92.05
3-13-8                      32.05
3-13-8-1                    32.05
3-13-8-11                   32.05
3-13-8-12                   32.05
3-13-8-13                   32.05
3-13-11                     32.05
5-3-1                       31.19
5-4-1-1                     32.04
5-4-1-18                    32.04
5-11-1-27(I)                35.06
5-22                        35.03
5-22 et seq.                35.08
5-22-8-2                    35.03
5-22-15-20.9                30.02
5-22-15-20.9(d)             30.02
5-22-15-21                  35.03
6-1.1-18.5                  31.22
9-13-2-1                    92.35
9-13-2-8                    92.35
9-13-2-16                   92.35
9-13-2-63                   92.35
9-13-2-121                  92.35
9-13-2-122                  92.35
9-13-2-136                  92.35
9-13-2-144                  92.35
9-13-2-179                  92.35
9-13-2-196(d)               92.35
9-17                        92.35
9-18-12                     92.44
9-18.1-14.5                 92.35
9-22-1-1                    92.44
9-22-1-2                    92.35
9-22-1-3                    92.35
9-22-1-11 through 9-22-1-17 92.39
9-22-1-21 et seq.           92.40
9-22-1-23                   92.41
9-22-1-25                   92.41
9-22-1-26                   92.41
9-22-1-27                   92.43
9-22-1-30                   92.41,
                            92.42
10-14-1 et seq.             32.21
13-17-9                     91.153
14-32                       52.31
14-34                       52.32
22-9-1-4                    94.02
22-9.5-1                    94.01
22-9.5-2-2                  94.02
22-9.5-2-3                  94.02
22-9.5-2-4                  94.02
22-9.5-2-8                  94.02
22-9.5-2-9                  94.02
22-9.5-2-10                 94.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)              94.02
22-9.5-2-10(c)              94.02
22-9.5-2-11                 94.02
22-9.5-2-13                 94.02
22-9.5-3                    94.03,
                            94.09
22-9.5-4-8                  94.10
22-9.5-5                    94.02
22-9.5-5-1                  94.03
22-9.5-6                    94.02,
                            94.10
22-11-14                    91.005
                            91.005,
22-11-14-2                  91.120,
                            91.121
22-11-14-3                  91.120
22-11-14-8(a)               91.121
22-11-18                    91.105
22-12-1-3                   150.20
22-12-1-4                   91.005
22-12-1-5                   91.005
22-12-2-1                   91.005
22-13-2-11                  91.045
22-14                       91.042
24-4-16-3                   33.02
25-25-2-1                   112.06
32-30-6                     92.04
34-28-5-4(c)                92.99
34-28-5-4(e)                92.99
35-31.5-2-50                92.99
35-46-3-1                   90.029
35-46-4-7                   90.029
36-1-3-8                    10.99
36-1-5-4                    34.03
36-1-6                      33.01
36-1-6-4                    90.999
36-1-20.2                   34.03
36-1-21                     34.03
36-4-5-2                    32.03
36-4-6-2                    32.03
36-4-6-11                   34.03
36-4-6-14(b)                92.05
36-4-10-3                   32.03
36-5                        31.35,
                            31.36
36-5-2-2                    32.01
36-5-2-8                    32.01
36-5-2-9.4                  34.03
36-5-6-2                    32.01
36-7-9                      150.15
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29  150.16
36-7-9-1                    150.17,
                            150.18
36-7-9-2                    150.19
36-7-9-4                    150.19
36-7-9-8                    92.05
36-7-10.1 et seq.           92.05
36-7-10.1-4                 92.07
36-8-3-6                    33.01
36-8-3-10                   33.02
36-8-3-20                   33.07
36-8-5-2                    33.23
36-8-8-12.7                 33.23
                            91.026,
36-8-17                     91.027,
                            91.044,
                            91.185
36-8-17-9                   91.042
36-9-27                     52.03
36-9-36                     51.36
36-9-39                     51.35
                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
-         2-19-1913   T.S.O. II
5-00-1    5-8-2000    T.S.O. II
6-12-1    7-1-2012    34.03
8-11-14-D 8-11-2014   30.03
9-15-1    9-14-2015   34.04
2019-10-3 10-21-2019  T.S.O. III
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
                        73.30-
-           - -         73.46,
                        73.99
7-11-3      - -         51.10,
                        51.99
12-07-1     - -         110.03,
                        110.99
11-61-A     11-6-1961   T.S.O. II
11-61-B     11-6-1961   T.S.O. II
11-71-5     11-1-1971   111.01
1973-2      6-4-1973    T.S.O. II
11-76-1     11-9-1976   T.S.O. II
-           4-12-1988   T.S.O. II
7-90-1      7-10-1990   Ch.74, Schd. III
10-90-1     10-9-1990   50.02
12-91-3     12-30-1991  130.20-
                        130.23
                        110.01-
7-93-1      7-6-1993    110.05,
                        110.99
5-94-1      5-10-1994   150.02
11-94-1     11-1-1994   T.S.O. I
2-96-1      2-13-1996   70.03
8-96-2      8-12-1996   50.03
8-00-1      8-14-2000   T.S.O. II
10-4-1      10-11-2004  90.054,
                        90.999
12-04-2     12-13-2004  90.054
                        51.01-
3-06-1      3-20-2006   51.19,
                        51.99
4-06-1      4-10-2006   92.06,
                        92.99
06-12-2     12-11-2006  150.01
                        91.150,
9-07-1      9-10-2007   91.152-
                        91.155
12-07-2     12-10-2007  Ch. 74, Schd. III
12-08-2     12-29-2008  50.03
4-09-1      - -2009     51.16
12-09-1     12-14-2009  51.16
-           - -2010     91.121
4-10-1      5-10-2010   50.01
7-11-2      7-11-2011   52.04
12-11-1     12-12-2011  150.15-
                        150.20
                        94.01-
3.11.2013 B 3-11-2013   94.09,
                        94.99
10.14.2013B 10-14-2013  90.029,
                        90.999
2.10-2014   2-10-2014   30.04
6.9-2014    6-9-2014    T.S.O. II
8-11-14A    8-11-2014   92.05
8-11-14-B   8-11-2014   Ch. 74, Schd. I
8-11-14-C   8-11-2014   Ch. 74, Schd. II
11-15-1     11-9-2015   50.03
11-15-2     11-9-2014   34.05
2015-6-1    6-8-2015    34.02
2015-8-1    - -2015     93.03
2015-8-2    9-14-2015   T.S.O. III
2015-12-1   12-14-2015  Adopting Ordinance
2015-12-2   12-14-2015  50.04
2016-3-1    3-14-2016   35.06
2016-5-1    5-9-2016    92.08
2016-6-4    6-28-2016   35.07
2016-8-2    9-12-2016   92.09
2017-1-1    1-9-2017    Ch. 74, Schd. II
6-2017-1    6-5-2017    51.16
5-2018-1    5-22-2018   51.16
6-2018-1    6-11-2018   50.01
2018-11-2   11-28-2018  50.01
2019-5-1    6-10-2019   130.07
2019-5-2    6-10-2019   93.04
2019-5-3    6-10-2019   92.10
2019-6-2    6-10-2019   150.03
2022-2-3    3-14-2022   51.16
2022-2-4    3-14-2022   50.03
2022-6-2    6-20-2022   50.01
2022-8-1    9-12-2022   35.08
2023-12-6   1-8-2024    51.16
                        36.01-
2024-4-2    4-15-2024   36.05,
                        36.99
2024-6-1    6-10-2024   35.10
                        112.01-
2024-6-2    7-8-2024    112.18,
                        112.99
2024-6-3    6-10-2024   35.09
2024-7-4    7-8-2024    92.08
2024-7-5    7-8-2024    90.029
2024-7-6    7-8-2024    92.05
2024-8-1    8-12-2024   112.14
2024-9-3    10-7-2024   51.16
2024-12-1   12-9-2024   50.03
2025-1-2    2-10-2025   50.01
2025-2-4    2-10-2025   93.05
                       
 
 
